(iii) A special relationship or circumstances exist that we believe warrant approval of the lease;
(iv) The lease is for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes;
(v) We have waived the requirement for a valuation under paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) We may approve a lease that provides for payment of less than a fair market rental during the pre-development or construction periods, if we determine it is in the Indian landowners' best interest. The lease must specify the amount of the compensation and the applicable periods.
(d) We will require a valuation in accordance with § 162.422, unless:
(1) 100 percent of the Indian landowners submit to us a written request to waive the valuation requirement; or
(2) We waive the requirement under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) If the owners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 of this part execute a business lease on behalf of all of the Indian landowners of a fractionated tract, the lease must provide that the non-consenting Indian landowners, and those on whose behalf we have consented, receive a fair market rental, as determined by a valuation, unless we waive the requirement because the tribe or lessee will construct infrastructure improvements on, or serving, the leased premises, and we determine it is in the best interest of all the landowners.
§ 162.422
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a business lease?
(a) We will use a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method to determine the fair market rental before we approve a business lease of individually owned Indian land or, at the request of the tribe, for tribal land.
(b) We will either:
(1) Prepare, or have prepared, a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method; or
(2) Use an approved market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method from the Indian landowners or lessee.
(c) We will use or approve use of a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method only if it:
(1) Has been prepared in accordance with USPAP or a valuation method developed by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 2214; and
(2) Complies with Departmental policies regarding appraisals, including third-party appraisals.
(d) Indian landowners may use competitive bidding as a valuation method.
§ 162.423
When are monetary compensation payments due under a business lease?
(a) A business lease must specify the dates on which all payments are due.
(b) Unless the lease provides otherwise, payments may not be made or accepted more than one year in advance of the due date.
(c) Payments are due at the time specified in the lease, regardless of whether the lessee receives an advance billing or other notice that a payment is due.
§ 162.424
Must a business lease specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
(a) A business lease must specify whether the lessee will make payments directly to the Indian landowners (direct pay) or to us on their behalf.
(b) The lessee may make payments directly to the Indian landowners if:
(1) The Indian landowners' trust accounts are unencumbered;
(2) There are 10 or fewer beneficial owners; and
(3) One hundred percent of the beneficial owners (including those on whose behalf we have consented) agree to receive payment directly from the lessee at the start of the lease.
(c) If the lease provides that the lessee will directly pay the Indian landowners, then:
(1) The lease must include provisions for proof of payment upon our request.
(2) When we consent on behalf of an Indian landowner, the lessee must make payment to us on behalf of that landowner.
(3) The lessee must send direct payments to the parties and addresses specified in the lease, unless the lessee receives notice of a change of ownership or address.
(4) Unless the lease provides otherwise, compensation payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(5) Direct payments must continue through the duration of the lease, except that:
(i) The lessee must make all Indian landowners' payments to us if 100 percent of the Indian landowners agree to suspend direct pay and provide us with documentation of their agreement; and
(ii) The lessee must make that individual Indian landowner's payment to us if any individual Indian landowner who dies, is declared non compos mentis, owes a debt resulting in a trust account encumbrance, or his or her whereabouts become unknown.
§ 162.425
What form of monetary compensation payment is acceptable under a business lease?
(a) When payments are made directly to Indian landowners, the form of payment must be acceptable to the Indian landowners.
(b) When payments are made to us, our preferred method of payment is electronic funds transfer payments. We will also accept:
(1) Money orders;
(2) Personal checks;
(3) Certified checks; or
(4) Cashier's checks.
(c) We will not accept cash or foreign currency.
(d) We will accept third-party checks only from financial institutions or Federal agencies.
§ 162.426
May the business lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
(a) A lease may provide for the following, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:
(1) Alternative forms of compensation, including but not limited to, in-kind consideration and payments based on percentage of income; or
(2) Varying types of compensation at specific stages during the life of the lease, including but not limited to fixed annual payments during construction, payments based on income during an operational period, and bonuses.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the compensation under paragraph (a) of this section is in its best interest, if the tribe submits a signed certification or tribal authorization stating that it has determined the compensation under paragraph (a) of this section to be in its best interest.
(c) For individually owned land, we may approve a lease that provides for compensation under paragraph (a) of this section if we determine that it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
§ 162.427
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a business lease?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we may issue invoices to a lessee in advance of the dates on which payments are due under a business lease. The lessee's obligation to make these payments in a timely manner will not be excused if invoices are not issued, delivered, or received.
§ 162.428
Must a business lease provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
(a) For a business lease of tribal land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of compensation or adjustment is required if the tribe states in its tribal certification or authorization that it has determined that not having compensation reviews and/or adjustments is in its best interest.
(b) For a business lease of individually owned Indian land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of compensation or adjustment is required if:
(1) If the term of the lease is 5 years or less;
(2) The lease provides for automatic adjustments; or
(3) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners not to require a review or automatic adjustment based on circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The lease provides for payment of less than fair market rental;
(ii) The lease is for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes;
(iii) The lease provides for most or all of the compensation to be paid during the first 5 years of the lease term or before the date the review would be conducted; or
(iv) The lease provides for graduated rent or non-monetary or various types of compensation.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, a review of the adequacy of compensation must occur at least every fifth year, in the manner specified in the lease. The lease must specify:
(1) When adjustments take effect;
(2) Who can make adjustments;
(3) What the adjustments are based on; and
(4) How to resolve disputes arising from the adjustments.
(d) When a review results in the need for adjustment of compensation, the Indian landowners must consent to the adjustment in accordance with § 162.012, unless the lease provides otherwise.
§ 162.429
What other types of payments are required under a business lease?
(a) The lessee may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and assessments associated with the use of the land, as determined by entities having jurisdiction, except as provided in § 162.017. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office.
(b) If the leased premises are within an Indian irrigation project or drainage district, except as otherwise provided in part 171 of this chapter, the lessee must pay all operation and maintenance charges that accrue during the lease term. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office in charge of the irrigation project or drainage district. We will treat failure to make these payments as a violation of the lease.
(c) Where the property is subject to at least one other lease for another compatible use, the lessees may agree among themselves how to allocate payment of the Indian irrigation operation and maintenance charges.

# Bonding and Insurance
§ 162.434
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a business lease?
The lessee must provide a performance bond or alternative form of security, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(a) The performance bond or alternative form of security must be in an amount sufficient to secure the contractual obligations including:
(1) No less than:
(i) The highest annual rental specified in the lease, if compensation is paid annually; or
(ii) If the compensation is not paid annually, another amount established by BIA in consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with
Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land;
(2) The construction of any required permanent improvements;
(3) The operation and maintenance charges for any land located within an irrigation project; and
(4) The restoration and reclamation of the leased premises, to their condition at the start of the lease term or some other specified condition.
(b) The performance bond or other security:
(1) Must be deposited with us and made payable only to us, and may not be modified without our approval, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(2) For tribal land, if the lease so provides, may be deposited with the tribe and made payable to the tribe, and may not be modified without the approval of the tribe.
(c) The lease must specify the conditions under which we may adjust security or performance bond requirements to reflect changing conditions, including consultation with the tribal landowner for tribal land before the adjustment.
(d) We may require that the surety provide any supporting documents needed to show that the performance bond or alternative forms of security will be enforceable, and that the surety will be able to perform the guaranteed obligations.
(e) The performance bond or other security instrument must require the surety to provide notice to us at least 60 days before canceling a performance bond or other security. This will allow us to notify the lessee of its obligation to provide a substitute performance bond or other security and require collection of the bond or security before the cancellation date. Failure to provide a substitute performance bond or security is a violation of the lease.
(f) We may waive the requirement for a performance bond or alternative form of security if either:
(1) The lease is for religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes; or
(2) The Indian landowners request it and we determine a waiver is in the Indian landowners' best interest.
(g) For tribal land, we will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the tribe's determination that a waiver of a performance bond or alternative form of security is in its best interest.
§ 162.435
What forms of security are acceptable under a business lease?
(a) We will accept a performance bond only in one of the following forms:
(1) Certificates of deposit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(2) Irrevocable letters of credit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(3) Negotiable Treasury securities; or
(4) Surety bonds issued by a company approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(b) We may accept an alternative form of security approved by us that provides adequate protection for the Indian landowners and us, including but not limited to an escrow agreement and assigned savings account.
(c) All forms of performance bonds or alternative security must, if applicable:
(1) Indicate on their face that BIA approval is required for redemption;
(2) Be accompanied by a statement granting full authority to BIA to make an immediate claim upon or sell them if the lessee violates the lease;
(3) Be irrevocable during the term of the performance bond or alternative security; and
(4) Be automatically renewable during the term of the lease.
(d) We will not accept cash bonds.
§ 162.436
What is the release process for a performance bond or alternative form of security under a business lease?
(a) Upon expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease, the lessee may ask BIA in writing to release the performance bond or alternative form of security.
(b) Upon receiving a request under paragraph (a) of this section, BIA will:
(1) Confirm with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with the Indian
landowners for individually owned Indian land, that the lessee has complied with all lease obligations; and
(2) Release the performance bond or alternative form of security to the lessee, unless we determine that the bond or security must be redeemed to fulfill the contractual obligations.
§ 162.437
Must a lessee provide insurance for a business lease?
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a lessee must provide insurance necessary to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and in the amount sufficient to protect all insurable permanent improvements on the premises.
(a) The insurance may include property, crop, liability, and casualty insurance, depending on the Indian landowners' interests to be protected.
(b) Both the Indian landowners and the United States must be identified as additional insured parties.
(c) We may waive the requirement for insurance upon the request of the Indian landowner, if a waiver is in the best interest of the Indian landowner, including if the lease is for less than fair market rental or nominal compensation. For tribal land, we will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the tribe's determination that a waiver is in its best interest.

# Approval
§ 162.438
What documents are required for BIA approval of a business lease?
A lessee or the Indian landowners must submit the following documents to us to obtain BIA approval of a business lease:
(a) A lease executed by the Indian landowners and the lessee that meets the requirements of this part;
(b) For tribal land, a tribal authorization for the lease and, if applicable, meeting the requirements of §§ 162.420(a), 162.426(b), and 162.428(a), or a separate signed certification meeting the requirements of §§ 162.426(b) and 162.428(a));
(c) A valuation, if required under § 162.420 or § 162.421;
(d) Proof of insurance, if required under § 162.437;
(e) A performance bond or other security, if required under § 162.434;
(f) Statement from the appropriate tribal authority that the proposed use is in conformance with applicable tribal law, if required by the tribe;
(g) Environmental and archeological reports, surveys, and site assessments as needed to facilitate compliance with applicable Federal and tribal environmental and land use requirements, including any documentation prepared under § 162.027(b);
(h) A restoration and reclamation plan (and any subsequent modifications to the plan), if appropriate;
(i) Where the lessee is not an entity owned and operated by the tribe, documents that demonstrate the technical capability of the lessee or lessee's agent to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the proposed project and the lessee's ability to successfully design, construct, or obtain the funding for a project similar to the proposed project, if appropriate;
(j) A preliminary plan of development that describes the type and location of any permanent improvements the lessee plans to construct and a schedule showing the tentative commencement and completion dates for those improvements, if appropriate;
(k) A legal description of the land under § 162.418;
(l) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, information to assist us in our evaluation of the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(m) If the lessee is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity, except a tribal entity, information such as organizational documents, certificates, filing records, and resolutions, that demonstrates that:
(1) The representative has authority to execute a lease;
(2) The lease will be enforceable against the lessee; and
(3) The legal entity is in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the jurisdiction where the land is located.
§ 162.439
Will BIA review a proposed business lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we will review the proposed business lease after negotiation by the parties, before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation and any valuation. Within 60 days of receiving the proposed lease, we will provide an acknowledgement of the terms of the lease and identify any provisions that, based on this acknowledgment review, would justify disapproval of the lease, pending results of the NEPA review and any valuation.
§ 162.440
What is the approval process for a business lease?
(a) Before we approve a business lease, we must determine that the lease is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the lease and supporting documents;
(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances;
(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Upon receiving a business lease package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required under this subpart, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation and valuation documentation, where applicable.
(1) If the business lease package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a business lease package, the parties may take action under § 162.463.
(2) If the business lease package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date of our receipt. Within 60 days of the receipt date, we will approve or disapprove the lease, return the package for revision, or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. If we inform the parties in writing that we need additional time, then:
(i) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter; and
(ii) We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease.
(c) If we do not meet the deadlines in this section, then the parties may take appropriate action under § 162.463.
(d) We will provide any lease approval or disapproval and the basis for the determination, along with notification of any appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the lease.
(e) We will provide approved business leases on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide approved business leases on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
§ 162.441
How will BIA decide whether to approve a business lease?
(a) We will approve a business lease unless:
(1) The required consents have not been obtained from the parties to the lease;
(2) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(3) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the lease is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a lease.
§ 162.442
When will a business lease be effective?
(a) A business lease will be effective on the date that we approve the lease,
even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter.
(b) The lease may specify a date on which the obligations between the parties to the business lease are triggered. Such date may be before or after the approval date under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 162.443
Must a business lease document be recorded?
(a) Any business lease document must be recorded in our LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(1) We will record the lease document immediately following our approval.
(2) If our approval of an assignment or sublease is not required, the parties must record the assignment or sublease in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(b) The tribe must record lease documents for the following types of leases in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased lands, even though BIA approval is not required:
(1) Leases of tribal land a corporate entity leases to a third party under 25 U.S.C. 477; and
(2) Leases of tribal land under a special act of Congress authorizing leases without our approval under certain conditions.
§ 162.444
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a business lease document?
(a) If a party appeals our decision on a lease, assignment, amendment, or sublease, then the official to whom the appeal is made may require the appellant to post an appeal bond in accordance with part 2 of this chapter. We will not require an appeal bond:
(1) For an appeal of a decision on a leasehold mortgage; or
(2) If the tribe is a party to the appeal and requests a waiver of the appeal bond.
(b) The appellant may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The appellant may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.

# Amendments
§ 162.445
May the parties amend a business lease?
The parties may amend a business lease by obtaining:
(a) The lessee's signature;
(b) The Indian landowners' consent under the requirements in § 162.446; and
(c) BIA approval of the amendment under §§ 162.447 and 162.448.
§ 162.446
What are the consent requirements for an amendment to a business lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed amendment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an amendment of a business lease in the same percentages and manner as a new business lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the amendment within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the amendment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to an amendment on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to an amendment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed amendment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the amendment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
(d) Unless specifically authorized in the lease, a written power of attorney, or a court document, Indian landowners may not be deemed to have consented to, and an Indian landowner's designated representative may not negotiate or consent to, an amendment that would:
(1) Reduce the payment obligations to the Indian landowners;
(2) Increase or decrease the lease area;
(3) Terminate or change the term of the lease; or
(4) Modify the dispute resolution procedures.
§ 162.447
What is the approval process for an amendment to a business lease?
(a) When we receive an amendment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 30 days from receipt of the executed amendment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the amendment or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. Our determination whether to approve the amendment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter. We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the amendment.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) or this section, or paragraph (b) of this section if applicable, the amendment is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the amendment that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the amendment will remain in force.
§ 162.448
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to a business lease?
(a) We may disapprove a business lease amendment only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(5) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible to the Indian landowners' determination that the amendment is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an amendment.

# Assignments
§ 162.449
May a lessee assign a business lease?
(a) A lessee may assign a business lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.450 and obtaining our approval of the assignment under §§ 162.451 and 162.452, or by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.
(b) Where provided in the lease, the lessee may assign the lease to the following without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval of the assignment, as long as the lessee notifies BIA of the assignment within 30 days after it is executed:
(1) Not more than three distinct legal entities specified in the lease; or
(2) The lessee's wholly owned subsidiaries.
(c) The lessee may assign the lease without our approval or meeting consent requirements if:
(1) The assignee is a leasehold mortgagee or its designee, acquiring the lease either through foreclosure or by conveyance;
(2) The assignee agrees in writing to assume all of the obligations and conditions of the lease; and
(3) The assignee agrees in writing that any transfer of the lease will be in accordance with applicable law under § 162.014.
§ 162.450
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a business lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed assignment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an amendment of a business lease in the same percentages and manner as a new business lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the amendment within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the amendment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to an amendment on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to an amendment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed amendment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the amendment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
(d) The lessee must obtain the consent of the holders of any bonds or mortgages.
§ 162.451
What is the approval process for an assignment of a business lease?
(a) When we receive an assignment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed assignment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the assignment. Our determination whether to approve the assignment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the lessee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 162.463.
§ 162.452
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a business lease?
(a) We may disapprove an assignment of a business lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The assignee does not agree to be bound by the terms of the lease;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the assignment would be adversely affected; and
(2) If a performance bond is required, the assignee has posted the bond or security and provided supporting documents that demonstrate that:
(i) The lease will be enforceable against the assignee; and
(ii) The assignee will be able to perform its obligations under the lease or assignment.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the assignment is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an assignment.

# Subleases
§ 162.453
May a lessee sublease a business lease?
(a) A lessee may sublease a business lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.454 and obtaining our approval of the sublease under §§ 162.455 and 162.456, or by meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Where the sublease is part of a commercial development or residential development, the lessee may sublease without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval of the sublease, if:
(1) The lease provides for subleasing without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval;
(2) The sublease does not relieve the lessee/sublessor of any liability; and
(3) The parties provide BIA with a copy of the sublease within 30 days after it is executed.
§ 162.454
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a business lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed sublease.
(b) The Indian landowners must consent to a sublease of a business lease in the same percentages and manner as a new business lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the sublease within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the sublease and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to a sublease on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a sublease.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed sublease or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the sublease to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
§ 162.455
What is the approval process for a sublease of a business lease?
(a) When we receive a sublease that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed sublease, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the sublease or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. Our determination whether to approve the sublease will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter. We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the sublease.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, or paragraph (b) of this section if applicable, the sublease is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the sublease that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the sublease will remain in force.
§ 162.456
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a business lease?
(a) We may disapprove a sublease of a business lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The lessee will not remain liable under the lease;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section, we may consider whether the value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the sublease would be adversely affected.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the sublease is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a sublease.

# Leasehold Mortgages
§ 162.457
May a lessee mortgage a business lease?
(a) A lessee may mortgage a business lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.458 and obtaining our approval of the leasehold mortgage under §§ 162.459 and 162.460.
(b) Refer to § 162.449(c) for information on what happens if a sale or foreclosure under an approved mortgage of the leasehold interest occurs.
§ 162.458
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed leasehold mortgage.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to a leasehold mortgage of a business lease in the same percentages and manner as a new business lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) States that landowner consent is not required for a leasehold mortgage and identifies what law would apply in case of foreclosure;
(2) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the leasehold mortgage within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the leasehold mortgage and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to a leasehold mortgage on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(4) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a leasehold mortgage.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed leasehold mortgage or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the leasehold mortgage to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
§ 162.459
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
(a) When we receive a leasehold mortgage that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 20 days from receipt of the executed leasehold mortgage, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the leasehold mortgage. Our determination whether to approve the leasehold mortgage will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the lessee may take appropriate action under § 162.463.
§ 162.460
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
(a) We may disapprove a leasehold mortgage of a business lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(4) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The leasehold mortgage proceeds would be used for purposes unrelated to the leased premises; and
(2) The leasehold mortgage is limited to the leasehold.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the leasehold mortgage is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a leasehold mortgage.

# Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
§ 162.461
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease be effective?
(a) An amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease will be effective when approved, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter, except:
(1) If the amendment or sublease was deemed approved under § 162.447(c) or § 162.455(c), the amendment or sublease becomes effective 45 days from the date the parties mailed or delivered the document to us for our review or, if we sent a letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease, the amendment or sublease becomes effective 45 days from the date of the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease; and
(2) An assignment that does not require our approval under § 162.449(b) or § 162.449(c) or a sublease that does not require our approval under § 152.453(b) becomes effective on the effective date specified in the assignment or sublease. If the assignment or sublease does not specify the effective date, it becomes effective upon execution by the parties.
(b) We will provide copies of approved documents to the party requesting approval, to the tribe for tribal land, and upon request, to other parties to the lease document.
§ 162.462
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease?
If we disapprove an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a business lease, we will notify the parties immediately and advise the landowners of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this chapter.
§ 162.463
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
(a) If a Superintendent does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage, the parties may file a written notice to compel action with the appropriate Regional Director.
(b) The Regional Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(c) The parties may file a written notice to compel action with the BIA Director if:
(1) The Regional Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(3) The initial decision on the lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage is with the Regional Director, and he or she does not meet the deadline for such decision.
(d) The BIA Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Regional Director or Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(e) If the Regional Director or Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set out in the order under paragraph (d)(2), then the BIA Director must issue a decision within 15 days from the expiration of the time set out in the order.
(f) The parties may file an appeal from our inaction to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(g) The provisions of 25 CFR 2.8 do not apply to the inaction of BIA officials with respect to a decision on a lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage under this subpart.
§ 162.464
May BIA investigate compliance with a business lease?
(a) We may enter the leased premises at any reasonable time, upon reasonable notice, and consistent with any notice requirements under applicable tribal law and applicable lease documents, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and to determine if the lessee is in compliance with the requirements of the lease.
(b) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific lease violation has occurred, we will promptly initiate an appropriate investigation.
§ 162.465
May a business lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
(a) A business lease of tribal land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies in the event of a lease violation, including, but not limited to, the power to terminate the lease. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA approval of the termination is not required;
(2) The termination is effective without BIA cancellation; and
(3) The Indian landowners must notify us of the termination so that we may record it in the LTRO.
(b) A business lease of individually owned Indian land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies, so long as the lease also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 of this part. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA concurrence with the termination is required to ensure that the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests have consented; and
(2) BIA will record the termination in the LTRO.
(c) The parties must notify any surety or mortgagee of any violation that may result in termination and the termination of a business lease.
(d) Negotiated remedies may apply in addition to, or instead of, the cancellation remedy available to us, as specified in the lease. The landowners may request our assistance in enforcing negotiated remedies.
(e) A business lease may provide that lease violations will be addressed by a tribe, and that lease disputes will be resolved by a tribal court, any other court of competent jurisdiction, or by a tribal governing body in the absence of a tribal court, or through an alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to ongoing actions or proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us.
§ 162.466
What will BIA do about a violation of a business lease?
(a) In the absence of actions or proceedings described in § 162.465(e), or if it is not appropriate for us to defer to the actions or proceedings, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) If we determine there has been a violation of the conditions of a business lease, other than a violation of payment provisions covered by paragraph (c) of this section, we will promptly send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(1) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(2) The notice of violation will advise the lessee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the lessee must:
(i) Cure the violation and notify us, and the tribe for tribal land, in writing that the violation has been cured;
(ii) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred; or
(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.
(3) The notice of violation may order the lessee to cease operations under the lease.
(c) A lessee's failure to pay compensation in the time and manner required by a business lease is a violation of the lease, and we will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) We will send the lessees and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested:
(i) Promptly following the date on which the payment was due, if the lease requires that payments be made to us; or
(ii) Promptly following the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowners,
if the lease provides for payment directly to the Indian landowners.
(2) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(3) The notice of violation will require the lessee to provide adequate proof of payment.
(d) The lessee and its sureties will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the lease until the lease expires, or is terminated or cancelled.
§ 162.467
What will BIA do if the lessee does not cure a violation of a business lease on time?
(a) If the lessee does not cure a violation of a business lease within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, we will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether:
(1) We should cancel the lease;
(2) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the lease;
(3) We should invoke other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available performance bond or, for failure to pay compensation, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or
(4) The lessee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) Following consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, we may take action to recover unpaid compensation and any associated late payment charges.
(1) We do not have to cancel the lease or give any further notice to the lessee before taking action to recover unpaid compensation.
(2) We may still take action to recover any unpaid compensation if we cancel the lease.
(c) If we decide to cancel the lease, we will send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 5 business days of our decision. We will send a copy of the cancellation letter to the tribe for tribal land, and will provide Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land with actual or constructive notice of the cancellation. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) If applicable, notify the lessee of the amount of any unpaid compensation or late payment charges due under the lease;
(3) Notify the lessee of the lessee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, including the possibility that the official to whom the appeal is made may require the lessee to post an appeal bond;
(4) Order the lessee to vacate the property within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and
(5) Order the lessee to take any other action BIA deems necessary to protect the Indian landowners.
(d) We may invoke any other remedies available to us under the lease, including collecting on any available performance bond, and the Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under tribal law.
§ 162.468
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a business lease?
(a) Late payment charges will apply as specified in the lease. The failure to pay these amounts will be treated as a lease violation.
(b) We may assess the following special fees to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt, if compensation is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to the late payment charges that must be paid to the Indian landowners under the lease:
The lessee will pay . . .
For . . .
(1) $50.00
Any dishonored check.
(2) $15.00
Processing of each notice or demand letter.
(3) 18 percent of balance due
Treasury processing following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 162.469
How will payment rights relating to a business lease be allocated?
The business lease may allocate rights to payment for insurance proceeds, trespass damages, condemnation awards, settlement funds, and other payments between the Indian landowners and the lessee. If not specified in the lease, insurance policy, order, award, judgment, or other document, the Indian landowners or lessees will be entitled to receive these payments.
§ 162.470
When will a cancellation of a business lease be effective?
(a) A cancellation involving a business lease will not be effective until 31 days after the lessee receives a cancellation letter from us, or 41 days from the date we mailed the letter, whichever is earlier.
(b) The cancellation decision will not be effective if an appeal is filed unless the cancellation is made immediately effective under part 2 of this chapter. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the lessee must continue to pay compensation and comply with the other terms of the lease.
§ 162.471
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a business lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
If a lessee remains in possession after the expiration, termination, or cancellation of a business lease, we may treat the unauthorized possession as a trespass under applicable law in consultation with the Indian landowners. Unless the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 have notified us in writing that they are engaged in good faith negotiations with the holdover lessee to obtain a new lease, we may take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, such as a forcible entry and detainer action.
§ 162.472
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving business leases?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal bond provisions in part 2 of this chapter will apply to appeals from lease cancellation decisions
(b) The lessee may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The lessee may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the appeal bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.
§ 162.473
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a business leasing decision?
BIA will issue a decision on an appeal from a business leasing decision within 60 days of receipt of all pleadings.
§ 162.474
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?
If a lessee abandons the leased premises, we will treat the abandonment as a violation of the lease. The lease may specify a period of non-use after which the lease premises will be considered abandoned.

# Subpart E—Wind and Solar Resource Leases

# Source:
77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions Applicable to WEELs and WSR Leases
§ 162.501
What types of leases does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart covers:
(1) Wind energy evaluation leases (WEELs), which are short-term leases that authorize possession of Indian land for the purpose of installing, operating, and maintaining instrumentation, and associated infrastructure, such as meteorological towers, to evaluate wind resources for electricity generation; and
(2) Wind and solar resource (WSR) leases, which are leases that authorize possession of Indian land for the purpose of installing, operating, and maintaining instrumentation, facilities, and associated infrastructure, such as wind turbines and solar panels, to harness wind and/or solar energy to generate and supply electricity:
(i) For resale on a for-profit or non-profit basis;
(ii) To a utility grid serving the public generally; or
(iii) To users within the local community (e.g., on and adjacent to a reservation).
(b) If the generation of electricity is solely to support a use approved under subpart B, Agricultural Leases; subpart C, Residential Leases; or subpart D Business Leases (including religious, educational, recreational, cultural, or other public purposes), for the same parcel of land, then the installation, operation, and maintenance of instrumentation, facilities, and associated infrastructure are governed by subpart B, C, or D, as appropriate.
§ 162.502
Who must obtain a WEEL or WSR lease?
(a) Anyone seeking to possess Indian land to conduct activities associated with the evaluation of wind resources must obtain a WEEL, except that a WEEL is not required if use or possession of the Indian land to conduct wind energy evaluation activities is authorized:
(1) Under § 162.005(b);
(2) By a permit from the Indian landowners under § 162.007; or
(3) By a tribe on its land under 25 U.S.C. 81.
(b) Except as provided in §§ 162.005(b), 162.501, and paragraph (c) of this section, anyone seeking to possess Indian land to conduct activities associated with the development of wind and/or solar resources must obtain a WSR lease.
(c) A tribe that conducts wind and solar resource activities on its tribal land does not need a WEEL or WSR under this subpart.
§ 162.503
Is there a model WEEL or WSR lease?
There is no model WEEL or WSR lease because of the need for flexibility in negotiating and writing WEELs and WSR leases; however, we may:
(a) Provide other guidance, such as checklists and sample lease provisions, to assist in the lease negotiation process; and
(b) Assist the Indian landowners, upon their request, in developing appropriate lease provisions or in using tribal lease forms that conform to the requirements of this part.

# WEELs
§ 162.511
What is the purpose of a WEEL?
A WEEL is a short-term lease that allows the lessee to possess trust or restricted lands for the purpose of evaluating wind resources. The lessee may use information collected under the WEEL to assess the potential for wind energy development, and determine future placement and type of wind energy technology to use in developing the energy resource potential of the leased area.
§ 162.512
How long may the term of a WEEL run?
(a) A WEEL must provide for a definite term, state if there is an option to renew and if so, provide for a definite term for the renewal period. WEELs are for project evaluation purposes, and therefore may have:
(1) An initial term that is no longer than 3 years; and
(2) One renewal period not to exceed 3 years.
(b) The exercise of the option to renew must be in writing and the WEEL must specify:
(1) The time and manner in which the option must be exercised or is automatically effective;
(2) That confirmation of the renewal will be submitted to us, unless the WEEL provides for automatic renewal; and
(3) Additional consideration, if any, that will be due upon the exercise of the option to renew or the start of the renewal term.
§ 162.513
Are there mandatory provisions a WEEL must contain?
(a) All WEELs must identify:
(1) The tract or parcel of land being leased;
(2) The purpose of the WEEL and authorized uses of the leased premises;
(3) The parties to the WEEL;
(4) The term of the WEEL;
(5) The ownership of permanent improvements and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing permanent improvements, under § 162.515;
(6) Payment requirements and late payment charges, including interest;
(7) Due diligence requirements, under § 162.517; and
(8) Insurance requirements, under § 162.527.
(b) Where a representative executes a lease on behalf of an Indian landowner or lessee, the lease must identify the landowner or lessee being represented and the authority under which the action is taken.
(c) All WEELs must include the following provisions:
(1) The obligations of the lessee and its sureties to the Indian landowners are also enforceable by the United States, so long as the land remains in trust or restricted status;
(2) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of leased premises;
(3) The lessee must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements under § 162.014;
(4) If historic properties, archeological resources, human remains, or other cultural items, not previously reported are encountered during the course of any activity associated with this lease, all activity in the immediate vicinity of the properties, resources, remains, or items will cease, and the lessee will contact BIA and the tribe with jurisdiction to determine how to proceed and appropriate disposition;
(5) BIA has the right, at any reasonable time during the term of the lease, and upon reasonable notice, in accordance with § 162.589, to enter the leased premises for inspection; and
(6) BIA may, at its discretion, treat as a lease violation any failure by the lessee to cooperate with a BIA request to make appropriate records, reports, or information available for BIA inspection and duplication.
(d) Unless the lessee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the lease must also contain the following provisions:
(1) The lessee holds the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the lessee's use or occupation of the leased premises;
(2) The lessee indemnifies the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or the release or discharge of any hazardous material from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault, with the exception that the lessee is not required to indemnify the Indian landowners for liability or cost arising from the Indian landowners' negligence or willful misconduct.
(e) We may treat any provision of a lease document that violates Federal law as a violation of the lease.
[77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 19100, Mar. 29, 2013]
§ 162.514
May permanent improvements be made under a WEEL?
(a) A WEEL anticipates the installation of facilities and associated infrastructure of a size and magnitude necessary for evaluation of wind resource capacity and potential effects of development. These facilities and associated infrastructure are considered permanent improvements. An equipment installation plan must be submitted with the lease under § 162.528(g).
(b) If any of the following changes are made to the equipment installation plan, the Indian landowners must approve the revised plan and the lessee must provide a copy of the revised plan to BIA:
(1) Location of permanent improvements;
(2) Type of permanent improvements; or
(3) Delay of 90 days or more in any phase of development.
§ 162.515
How must a WEEL address ownership of permanent improvements?
(a) A WEEL must specify who will own any permanent improvements the lessee installs during the lease term. In addition, the WEEL must indicate whether any permanent improvements the lessee installs:
(1) Will remain on the premises upon expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease whether or not the WEEL is followed by a WSR lease, in a
condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners;
(2) May be conveyed to the Indian landowners during the WEEL term and under what conditions the permanent improvements may be conveyed;
(3) Will be removed within a time period specified in the WEEL, at the lessee's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before installation of the permanent improvements; or
(4) Will be disposed of by other specified means.
(b) A WEEL that requires the lessee to remove the permanent improvements must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to take possession and title to the permanent improvements if the improvements are not removed within the specified time period.
§ 162.516
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a WEEL?
We may take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal of the permanent improvements and restoration of the premises at the lessee's expense:
(a) In consultation with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land; and
(b) After termination, cancellation, or expiration of the WEEL.
§ 162.517
What requirements for due diligence must a WEEL include?
(a) A WEEL must include due diligence requirements that require the lessee to:
(1) Install testing and monitoring facilities within 12 months after the effective date of the WEEL or other period designated in the WEEL and consistent with the plan of development; and
(2) If installation does not occur, or is not expected to be completed, within the time period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provide the Indian landowners and BIA with an explanation of good cause for any delay, the anticipated date of installation of facilities, and evidence of progress toward installing or completing testing and monitoring facilities.
(b) Failure of the lessee to comply with the due diligence requirements of the WEEL is a violation of the WEEL and may lead to:
(1) Cancellation of the WEEL under § 162.592; and
(2) Application of the requirement that the lessee transfer ownership of energy resource information collected under the WEEL to the Indian landowners under § 162.520.
§ 162.518
How must a WEEL describe the land?
(a) A WEEL must describe the leased premises by reference to a public or private survey, if possible. If the land cannot be so described, the lease must include one or more of the following:
(1) A legal description;
(2) A survey-grade global positioning system description; or
(3) Another description prepared by a registered land surveyor that is sufficient to identify the leased premises.
(b) If the tract is fractionated, we will identify the undivided trust or restricted interests in the leased premises.
§ 162.519
May a WEEL allow for compatible uses by the Indian landowner?
The WEEL may provide for the Indian landowners to use, or authorize others to use, the leased premises for other noncompeting uses compatible with the purpose of the WEEL. This may include the right to lease the premises for other compatible purposes. Any such use by the Indian landowners will not reduce or offset the monetary compensation for the WEEL.
§ 162.520
Who owns the energy resource information obtained under the WEEL?
(a) The WEEL must specify the ownership of any energy resource information the lessee obtains during the WEEL term.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in the WEEL, the energy resource information the lessee obtains through the leased activity becomes the property of Indian landowners at the expiration, termination, or cancellation of the WEEL or upon failure by the lessee to
diligently install testing and monitoring facilities on the leased premises in accordance with § 162.517.
(c) BIA will keep confidential any information it is provided that is marked confidential or proprietary and that is exempt from public release, to the extent allowed by law.
§ 162.521
May a lessee incorporate its WEEL analyses into its WSR lease analyses?
Any analyses a lessee uses to bring a WEEL activity into compliance with applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations under § 162.014 and any other legal requirements may be incorporated by reference, as appropriate, into the analyses of a proposed WSR lease.
§ 162.522
May a WEEL contain an option for the lessee to enter into a WSR lease?
(a) A WEEL may provide for an option period following the expiration of the WEEL term during which the lessee and the Indian landowners may enter into a WSR lease.
(b) Our approval of a WEEL that contains an option to enter into a WSR lease does not guarantee or imply our approval of any WSR lease.

# WEEL Monetary Compensation Requirements
§ 162.523
How much compensation must be paid under a WEEL?
(a) The WEEL must state how much compensation will be paid.
(b) A WEEL must specify the date on which compensation will be due.
(c) Failure to make timely payments is a violation of the WEEL and may lead to cancellation of the WEEL.
(d) The lease compensation requirements of §§ 162.552 through 162.558 also apply to WEELs.
§ 162.524
Will BIA require a valuation for a WEEL?
We will not require a valuation for a WEEL.

# WEEL Bonding and Insurance
§ 162.525
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a WEEL?
We will not require the lessee to provide a performance bond or alternative form of security for a WEEL.
§ 162.526
[Reserved]
§ 162.527
Must a lessee provide insurance for a WEEL?
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a lessee must provide insurance necessary to protect the interests of Indian landowners and in the amount sufficient to protect all insurable permanent improvements on the leased premises.
(a) The insurance may include property, crop, liability, and casualty insurance, depending on the Indian landowners' interests to be protected.
(b) Both the Indian landowners and the United States must be identified as additional insured parties.
(c) Lease insurance may be increased and extended for use as the required WSR lease insurance.
(d) We may waive the requirement for insurance upon the request of the Indian landowner, if a waiver is in the best interest of the Indian landowner, including if the lease is for less than fair market rental or nominal compensation. For tribal land, we will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the tribe's determination that a waiver is in its best interest.

# WEEL Approval
§ 162.528
What documents are required for BIA approval of a WEEL?
A lessee or the Indian landowners must submit the following documents to us to obtain BIA approval of a WEEL:
(a) A WEEL executed by the Indian landowners and the lessee that meets the requirements of this part;
(b) For tribal land, a tribal authorization for the WEEL;
(c) Proof of insurance, as required by § 162.527;
(d) Statement from the appropriate tribal authority that the proposed use is in conformance with applicable tribal law, if required by the tribe;
(e) Environmental and archeological reports, surveys, and site assessments as needed to facilitate compliance with applicable Federal and tribal environmental and land use requirements, including any documentation prepared under § 162.027(b);
(f) An equipment installation plan;
(g) A restoration and reclamation plan (and any subsequent modifications to the plan);
(h) Where the lessee is not an entity owned and operated by the tribe, documents that demonstrate the technical capability of the lessee or lessee's agent to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the proposed project and the lessee's ability to successfully design, construct, or obtain the funding for a project similar to the proposed project, if appropriate;
(i) A legal description of the land under § 162.518;
(j) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, information to assist us in our evaluation of the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(k) If the lessee is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity, except a tribal entity, information such as organizational documents, certificates, filing records, and resolutions, that demonstrates that:
(1) The representative has authority to execute a lease;
(2) The lease will be enforceable against the lessee; and
(3) The legal entity is in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the jurisdiction where the land is located.
§ 162.529
Will BIA review a proposed WEEL before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we will review the proposed WEEL after negotiation by the parties, before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation. Within 10 days of receiving the proposed WEEL, we will provide an acknowledgement of the terms of the lease and identify any provisions that, based on this acknowledgment review, would justify disapproval of the lease, pending results of the NEPA review.
§ 162.530
What is the approval process for a WEEL?
(a) Before we approve a WEEL, we must determine that the WEEL is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the WEEL and supporting documents;
(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances;
(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Upon receiving the WEEL package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required for a WEEL, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation, where applicable.
(1) If the WEEL package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a WEEL package, the parties may take action under § 162.588.
(2) If the WEEL package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date we receive the complete package, and, within 20 days of the date of receipt of the package at the appropriate BIA office, approve or disapprove the WEEL or return the package for revision.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, then the parties may take appropriate action under § 162.588.
(d) We will provide any WEEL approval determination and the basis for the determination, along with notification of appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the WEEL.
(e) We will provide any WEEL disapproval determination and the basis
for the determination, along with notification of rights to an informal conference, in writing to the parties. Within 30 days of receipt of the disapproval determination, the parties may request an informal conference with the official who issued the determination. Within 30 days of receiving this request, the official must hold the informal conference with the parties. Within 10 days of the informal conference, the official must issue a decision and the basis for the decision, along with a notification of appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the WEEL.
(f) We will provide the approved WEEL on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide the approved WEEL on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
§ 162.531
How will BIA decide whether to approve a WEEL?
(a) We will approve a WEEL unless:
(1) The required consents have not been obtained from the parties to the WEEL;
(2) The requirements applicable to WEELs have not been met; or
(3) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the WEEL is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a WEEL.
§ 162.532
When will a WEEL be effective?
(a) A WEEL will be effective on the date on which we approve the WEEL, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter.
(b) The WEEL may specify a date on which the obligations between the parties to a WEEL are triggered. Such date may be before or after the approval date under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) WEEL lease documents not requiring our approval are effective upon execution by the parties, or on the effective date specified in the lease document. If the WEEL lease document does not specify an effective date, it becomes effective upon execution by the parties.
§ 162.533
Must a WEEL lease document be recorded?
(a) Any WEEL lease document must be recorded in our LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(1) We will record the lease document immediately following our approval.
(2) If our approval of an assignment or sublease is not required, the parties must record the assignment or sublease in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(b) The tribe must record lease documents for the following types of leases in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the tribal lands, even though BIA approval is not required:
(1) Leases of tribal land that a corporate entity leases to a third party under 25 U.S.C. 477; and
(2) Leases of tribal land under a special act of Congress authorizing leases without our approval.

# WEEL Administration
§ 162.534
May the parties amend, assign, sublease, or mortgage a WEEL?
The parties may amend, assign, sublease, or mortgage a WEEL by following the procedures and requirements for amending, assigning, subleasing, or mortgaging a WSR lease.

# WEEL Compliance and Enforcement
§ 162.535
What effectiveness, compliance, and enforcement provisions apply to WEELs?
(a) The provisions at § 162.586 apply to WEEL lease documents.
(b) The provisions at §§ 162.587 through 162.589 and 162.591 through 162.599 apply to WEELs, except that any references to § 162.590 will apply instead to § 162.536.
§ 162.536
Under what circumstances may a WEEL be terminated?
A WEEL must state whether, and under what conditions, the Indian landowners may terminate the WEEL.
§ 162.537
[Reserved]

# WSR Leases
§ 162.538
What is the purpose of a WSR lease?
A WSR lease authorizes a lessee to possess Indian land to conduct activities related to the installation, operation, and maintenance of wind and/or solar energy resource development projects. Activities include installing instrumentation facilities and infrastructure associated with the generation, transmission, and storage of electricity and other related activities. Leases for biomass or waste-to-energy purposes are governed by subpart D of this part.
§ 162.539
Must I obtain a WEEL before obtaining a WSR lease?
You may enter into a WSR lease without a WEEL. While you may enter into a lease as a direct result of energy resource information gathered from a WEEL activity, obtaining a WEEL is not a precondition to entering into a WSR lease.
§ 162.540
How long may the term of a WSR lease run?
(a) A WSR lease must provide for a definite lease term, state if there is an option to renew, and if so, provide for a definite term for the renewal period. The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 415(a) may not exceed 50 years (consisting of an initial term not to exceed 25 years and one renewal not to exceed 25 years), unless a Federal statute provides for a longer maximum term (e.g., 25 U.S.C. 415(a) allows for a maximum term of 99 years for certain tribes), a different initial term, renewal term, or number of renewals.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the lease term, including any renewal, is reasonable. For individually owned Indian land, we will review the lease term, including any renewal, to ensure it is reasonable, given the:
(1) Purpose of the lease;
(2) Type of financing; and
(3) Level of investment.
(c) The lease may not be extended by holdover.
§ 162.541
What must the lease include if it contains an option to renew?
(a) If the lease provides for an option to renew, the lease must specify:
(1) The time and manner in which the option must be exercised or is automatically effective;
(2) That confirmation of the renewal will be submitted to us, unless the lease provides for automatic renewal;
(3) Whether Indian landowner consent to the renewal is required;
(4) That the lessee must provide notice of the renewal to the Indian landowners and any sureties and mortgagees;
(5) The additional consideration, if any, that will be due upon the exercise of the option to renew or the start of the renewal term; and
(6) Any other conditions for renewal (e.g., that the lessee not be in violation of the lease at the time of renewal).
(b) We will record any renewal of a lease in the LTRO.
§ 162.542
Are there mandatory provisions a WSR lease must contain?
(a) All WSR leases must identify:
(1) The tract or parcel of land being leased;
(2) The purpose of the lease and authorized uses of the leased premises;
(3) The parties to the lease;
(4) The term of the lease;
(5) The ownership of permanent improvements and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing, WSR equipment, roads, transmission lines and related facilities under § 162.543;
(6) Who is responsible for evaluating the leased premises for suitability; purchasing, installing, operating, and maintaining WSR equipment; negotiating power purchase agreements; and transmission;
(7) Payment requirements and late payment charges, including interest;
(8) Due diligence requirements, under § 162.546;
(9) Insurance requirements, under § 162.562; and
(10) Bonding requirements under § 162.559. If a performance bond is required, the lease must state that the lessee must obtain the consent of the surety for any legal instrument that
directly affects their obligations and liabilities.
(b) Where a representative executes a lease on behalf of an Indian landowner or lessee, the lease must identify the landowner or lessee being represented and the authority under which such action is taken.
(c) All WSR leases must include the following provisions:
(1) The obligations of the lessee and its sureties to the Indian landowners are also enforceable by the United States, so long as the land remains in trust or restricted status;
(2) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of the leased premises;
(3) The lessee must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements under § 162.014;
(4) If historic properties, archeological resources, human remains, or other cultural items not previously reported are encountered during the course of any activity associated with the lease, all activity in the immediate vicinity of the properties, resources, remains, or items will cease and the lessee will contact BIA and the tribe with jurisdiction to determine how to proceed and appropriate disposition;
(5) BIA has the right, at any reasonable time during the term of the lease and upon reasonable notice, in accordance with § 162.589, to enter the leased premises for inspection and to ensure compliance; and
(6) BIA may, at its discretion, treat as a lease violation any failure by the lessee to cooperate with a BIA request to make appropriate records, reports, or information available for BIA inspection and duplication.
(d) Unless the lessee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the lease must also contain the following provisions:
(1) The lessee holds the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the lessee's use or occupation of the leased premises; and
(2) The lessee indemnifies the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or the release or discharge of any hazardous material from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault, with the exception that the lessee is not required to indemnify the Indian landowners for liability or cost arising from the Indian landowners' negligence or willful misconduct.
(e) We may treat any provision of a lease document that violates Federal law as a violation of the lease.
§ 162.543
May permanent improvements be made under a WSR lease?
(a) A WSR lease must provide for the installation of a facility and associated infrastructure of a size and magnitude necessary for the generation and delivery of electricity, in accordance with § 162.019. These facilities and associated infrastructure are considered permanent improvements. A resource development plan must be submitted for approval with the lease under § 162.563(h).
(b) If the parties agree to any of the following changes to the resource development plan after lease approval, they must submit the revised plan to BIA for the file:
(1) Location of permanent improvements;
(2) Type of permanent improvements; or
(3) Delay of 90 days or more in any phase of development.
§ 162.544
How must a WSR lease address ownership of permanent improvements?
(a) A WSR lease must specify who will own any permanent improvements the lessee installs during the lease term and may specify under what conditions, if any, permanent improvements the lessee constructs may be conveyed to the Indian landowners during the lease term. In addition, the lease must indicate whether each specific permanent improvement the lessee installs will:
(1) Remain on the leased premises upon the expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease, in a condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners and become the property of the Indian landowners;
(2) Be removed within a time period specified in the lease, at the lessee's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before installation of the permanent improvements; or
(3) Be disposed of by other specified means.
(b) A lease that requires the lessee to remove the permanent improvements must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to take possession of and title to the permanent improvements if the improvements are not removed within the specified time period.
§ 162.545
How will BIA enforce removal requirements in a WSR lease?
(a) We may take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal of the permanent improvements and restoration of the premises at the lessee's expense:
(1) In consultation with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land; and
(2) Before or after expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease.
(b) We may collect and hold the performance bond until removal and restoration are completed.
§ 162.546
What requirements for due diligence must a WSR lease include?
(a) A WSR lease must include due diligence requirements that require the lessee to:
(1) Commence installation of energy facilities within 2 years after the effective date of the lease or consistent with a timeframe in the resource development plan;
(2) If installation does not occur, or is not expected to be completed, within the time period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provide the Indian landowners and BIA with an explanation of good cause as to the nature of any delay, the anticipated date of installation of facilities, and evidence of progress toward commencement of installation;
(3) Maintain all on-site electrical generation equipment and facilities and related infrastructure in accordance with the design standards in the resource development plan; and
(4) Repair, place into service, or remove from the site within a time period specified in the lease any idle, improperly functioning, or abandoned equipment or facilities that have been inoperative for a continuous period specified in the lease (unless the equipment or facilities were idle as a result of planned suspension of operations, for example, for grid operations or during bird migration season).
(b) Failure of the lessee to comply with the due diligence requirements of the lease is a violation of the lease and may lead to cancellation of the lease under § 162.592.
§ 162.547
How must a WSR lease describe the land?
(a) A WSR lease must describe the leased premises by reference to a private or public survey, if possible. If the land cannot be so described, the lease must include one or more of the following:
(1) A legal description;
(2) A survey-grade global positioning system description; or
(3) Another description prepared by a registered land surveyor that is sufficient to identify the leased premises.
(b) If the tract is fractionated, we will identify the undivided trust or restricted interests in the leased premises.
§ 162.548
May a WSR lease allow compatible uses?
The lease may provide for the Indian landowners to use, or authorize others to use, the leased premises for other uses compatible with the purpose of the WSR lease and consistent with the terms of the WSR lease. This may include the right to lease the premises for other compatible purposes. Any such use or authorization by the Indian landowners will not reduce or offset the monetary compensation for the WSR lease.

# WSR Lease Monetary Compensation Requirements
§ 162.549
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a WSR lease of tribal land?
(a) A WSR lease of tribal land may allow for any payment negotiated by the tribe, and we will defer to the tribe and not require a valuation if the tribe submits a tribal authorization expressly stating that it:
(1) Has negotiated compensation satisfactory to the tribe;
(2) Waives valuation; and
(3) Has determined that accepting such negotiated compensation and waiving valuation is in its best interest.
(b) The tribe may request, in writing, that we determine fair market rental, in which case we will use a valuation in accordance with § 162.551. After providing the tribe with the fair market rental, we will defer to a tribe's decision to allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, we will require that the lease provide for fair market rental based on a valuation in accordance with § 162.551.
§ 162.550
How much monetary compensation must be paid under a WSR lease of individually owned Indian land?
(a) A WSR lease of individually owned Indian land must require payment of not less than fair market rental before any adjustments, based on a fixed amount, a percentage of the projected gross income, megawatt capacity fee, or some other method, unless paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section permit a lesser amount. The lease must establish how the fixed amount, percentage or combination will be calculated and the frequency at which the payments will be made.
(b) We may approve a lease of individually owned Indian land that provides for the payment of nominal compensation, or less than a fair market rental, if:
(1) The Indian landowners execute a written waiver of the right to receive fair market rental; and
(2) We determine it is in the Indian landowners' best interest, based on factors including, but not limited to:
(i) The lessee is a member of the immediate family, as defined in § 162.003, of an Indian landowner;
(ii) The lessee is a co-owner of the leased tract;
(iii) A special relationship or circumstances exist that we believe warrant approval of the lease;
(iv) The lease is for public purposes; or
(v) We have waived the requirement for a valuation under paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) We may approve a lease that provides for the payment of less than a fair market rental during the periods before the generation and transmission of electricity begins, if we determine it is in the Indian landowners' best interest. The lease must specify the amount of the compensation and the applicable periods.
(d) We will require a valuation in accordance with § 162.422, unless:
(1) 100 percent of the landowners submit to us a written request to waive the valuation requirement; or
(2) We waive the requirement under paragraph (e) of this section; or
(3) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners to accept an economic analysis in lieu of an appraisal and:
(i) The Indian landowners submit an economic analysis that is approved by the Office of Indian Energy
Economic Development (IEED); or
(ii) IEED prepares an economic analysis at the request of the Indian landowners.
(e) If the owners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.011 of this part grant a WSR lease on behalf of all of the Indian landowners of a fractionated tract, the lease must provide that the non-consenting Indian landowners, and those on whose behalf we have consented, receive a fair market rental, as determined by a valuation, unless we waive the requirement because the tribe or lessee will construct infrastructure improvements on, or serving, the leased premises, and we determine it is in the best interest of all the landowners.
§ 162.551
How will BIA determine fair market rental for a WSR lease?
(a) We will use a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method to determine the fair market rental before we approve a WSR lease of individually owned Indian land or, at the request of the tribe, for tribal land.
(b) We will either:
(1) Prepare, or have prepared, a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method; or
(2) Use an approved market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method from the Indian landowners or lessee.
(c) We will use or approve use of a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method only if it:
(1) Has been prepared in accordance with USPAP or a valuation method developed by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 2214; and
(2) Complies with Department policies regarding appraisals, including third-party appraisals.
(d) Indian landowners may use competitive bidding as a valuation method.
§ 162.552
When are monetary compensation payments due under a WSR lease?
(a) A WSR lease must specify the dates on which all payments are due.
(b) Unless the lease provides otherwise, payments may not be made or accepted more than one year in advance of the due date.
(c) Payments are due at the time specified in the lease, regardless of whether the lessee receives an advance billing or other notice that a payment is due.
§ 162.553
Must a WSR lease specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
(a) A WSR lease must specify whether the lessee will make payments directly to the Indian landowners (direct pay) or to us on their behalf.
(b) The lessee may make payments directly to the Indian landowners if:
(1) The Indian landowners' trust accounts are unencumbered;
(2) There are 10 or fewer beneficial owners; and
(3) One hundred percent of the beneficial owners (including those on whose behalf we have consented) agree to receive payment directly from the lessee at the start of the lease.
(c) If the lease provides that the lessee will directly pay the Indian landowners, then:
(1) The lease must include provisions for proof of payment upon our request.
(2) When we consent on behalf of an Indian landowner, the lessee must make payment to us on behalf of that landowner.
(3) The lessee must send direct payments to the parties and addresses specified in the lease, unless the lessee receives notice of a change of ownership or address.
(4) Unless the lease provides otherwise, payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(5) Direct payments must continue through the duration of the lease, except that:
(i) The lessee must make all Indian landowners' payments to us if 100 percent of the Indian landowners agree to suspend direct pay and provide us with documentation of their agreement; and
(ii) The lessee must make that individual Indian landowner's payment to us if any individual Indian landowner who dies, is declared non compos mentis, owes a debt resulting in a trust account encumbrance, or his or her whereabouts become unknown.
§ 162.554
What form of monetary compensation payment is acceptable under a WSR lease?
(a) When payments are made directly to Indian landowners, the form of payment must be acceptable to the Indian landowners.
(b) When payments are made to us, our preferred method of payment is electronic funds transfer payments. We will also accept:
(1) Money orders;
(2) Personal checks;
(3) Certified checks; or
(4) Cashier's checks.
(c) We will not accept cash or foreign currency.
(d) We will accept third-party checks only from financial institutions or Federal agencies.
§ 162.555
May a WSR lease provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
(a) A WSR lease may provide for the following, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:
(1) Alternative forms of compensation, including but not limited to, in-kind consideration and payments based on percentage of income; or
(2) Varying types of consideration at specific stages during the life of the lease, including but not limited to fixed annual payments during installation, payments based on income during an operational period, and bonuses.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the compensation in paragraph (a) of this section is in its best interest, if the tribe submits a signed certification or tribal authorization stating that it has determined the compensation in paragraph (a) of this section to be in its best interest.
(c) For individually owned land, we may approve a lease that provides for compensation under paragraph (a) of this section if we determine that it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
§ 162.556
Will BIA notify a lessee when a payment is due under a WSR lease?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we may issue invoices to a lessee in advance of the dates on which payments are due under a WSR lease. The lessee's obligation to make these payments in a timely manner will not be excused if invoices are not delivered or received.
§ 162.557
Must a WSR lease provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
(a) For a WSR lease of tribal land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of compensation or adjustment is required if the tribe states in its tribal certification or authorization that it has determined that not having reviews and/or adjustments is in its best interest.
(b) For a WSR lease of individually owned Indian land, unless the lease provides otherwise, no periodic review of the adequacy of compensation or adjustment is required if:
(1) If the term of the lease is 5 years or less;
(2) The lease provides for automatic adjustments; or
(3) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners not to require a review or automatic adjustment based on circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The lease provides for payment of less than fair market rental;
(ii) The lease is for public purposes;
(iii) The lease provides for most or all of the compensation to be paid during the first 5 years of the lease term or before the date the review would be conducted; or
(iv) The lease provides for graduated rent or non-monetary or various types of compensation.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, a review of the adequacy of compensation must occur at least every fifth year, in the manner specified in the lease. The lease must specify:
(1) When adjustments take effect;
(2) Who can make adjustments;
(3) What the adjustments are based on; and
(4) How to resolve disputes arising from the adjustments.
(d) When a review results in the need for adjustment of compensation, the Indian landowners must consent to the adjustment in accordance with § 162.012, unless the lease provides otherwise.
§ 162.558
What other types of payments are required under a WSR lease?
(a) The lessee may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and assessments associated with the use of the land, as determined by entities having jurisdiction, except as provided in § 162.017. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office.
(b) If the leased premises are within an Indian irrigation project or drainage district, except as otherwise provided in part 171 of this chapter, the lessee must pay all operation and maintenance charges that accrue during the lease term. The lessee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office in charge of the irrigation project or
drainage district. We will treat failure to make these payments as a violation of the lease.
(c) Where the property is subject to at least one other lease for another compatible use, such as grazing, the lessees may agree among themselves how to allocate payment of the operation and maintenance charges.

# WSR Lease Bonding and Insurance
§ 162.559
Must a lessee provide a performance bond for a WSR lease?
The lessee must provide a performance bond or alternative form of security, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(a) The performance bond or alternative form of security must be in an amount sufficient to secure the contractual obligations including:
(1) No less than:
(i) The highest annual rental specified in the lease, if the compensation is paid annually; or
(ii) If the compensation is not paid annually, another amount established by BIA in consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land;
(2) The installation of any required permanent improvements;
(3) The operation and maintenance charges for any land located within an irrigation project; and
(4) The restoration and reclamation of the leased premises, to their condition at the start of the lease term or some other specified condition.
(b) The performance bond or other security:
(1) Must be deposited with us and made payable only to us, and may not be modified without our approval, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(2) For tribal land, if the lease so provides, may be deposited with the tribe and made payable to the tribe, and may not be modified without the approval of the tribe.
(c) The lease must specify the conditions under which we may adjust security or performance bond requirements to reflect changing conditions, including consultation with the tribal landowner for tribal land before adjustment.
(d) We may require that the surety provide any supporting documents needed to show that the performance bond or alternative forms of security will be enforceable, and that the surety will be able to perform the guaranteed obligations.
(e) The performance bond or other security instrument must require the surety to provide notice to us at least 60 days before canceling a performance bond or other security. This will allow us to notify the lessee of its obligation to provide a substitute performance bond or other security and require collection of the bond or security before the cancellation date. Failure to provide a substitute performance bond or security is a violation of the lease.
(f) We may waive the requirement for a performance bond or alternative forms of security if:
(1) The lease is for public purposes; or
(2) The Indian landowners request it and we determine a waiver is in the Indian landowners' best interest.
(g) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that a waiver of the performance bond or alternative form of security is in its best interest, to the maximum extent possible.
§ 162.560
What forms of security are acceptable under a WSR lease?
(a) We will accept a performance bond only in one of the following forms:
(1) Certificates of deposit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(2) Irrevocable letters of credit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(3) Negotiable Treasury securities; or
(4) Surety bonds issued by a company approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(b) We may accept an alternative form of security approved by us that provides adequate protection for the Indian landowners and us, including but not limited to an escrow agreement and assigned savings account.
(c) All forms of performance bonds or alternative security must, if applicable:
(1) Indicate on their face that BIA approval is required for redemption;
(2) Be accompanied by a statement granting full authority to BIA to make an immediate claim upon or sell them if the lessee violates the terms of the lease;
(3) Be irrevocable during the term of the performance bond or alternative security; and
(4) Be automatically renewable during the term of the lease.
(d) We will not accept cash bonds.
§ 162.561
What is the release process for a performance bond or alternative form of security under a WSR lease?
(a) Upon expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease, the lessee must ask BIA in writing to release the performance bond or alternative form of security.
(b) Upon receiving the request under paragraph (a) of this section, BIA will:
(1) Confirm with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, that the lessee has complied with all lease obligations; and
(2) Release the performance bond or alternative form of security to the lessee unless we determine that the bond or security must be redeemed to fulfill the contractual obligations.
§ 162.562
Must a lessee provide insurance for a WSR lease?
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a lessee must provide insurance when necessary to protect the interests of Indian landowners and in the amount sufficient to protect all insurable permanent improvements on the leased premises.
(a) The insurance may include property, liability, and casualty insurance, depending on the Indian landowners' interests to be protected.
(b) Both the Indian landowners and the United States must be identified as additional insured parties.
(c) We may waive the requirement for insurance upon the request of the Indian landowner, if a waiver is in the best interest of the Indian landowner, including if the lease is for less than fair market rental or nominal compensation. For tribal land, we will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the tribe's determination that a waiver is in its best interest.

# WSR Lease Approval
§ 162.563
What documents are required for BIA approval of a WSR lease?
A lessee or the Indian landowners must submit the following documents to us to obtain BIA approval of a WSR lease:
(a) A lease executed by the Indian landowners and the lessee that meets the requirements of this part;
(b) For tribal land, a tribal authorization for the lease and, if applicable, meeting the requirements of §§ 162.549(a), 162.555(b), and 162.557(a), or a separate signed certification meeting the requirements of §§ 162.555(b) and 162.557(a));
(c) A valuation, if required under § 162.549 or § 162.550;
(d) Proof of insurance, if required under § 162.562;
(e) A performance bond or other security, if required under § 162.559;
(f) Statement from the appropriate tribal authority that the proposed use is in conformance with applicable tribal law, if required by the tribe;
(g) Environmental and archeological reports, surveys, and site assessments as needed to facilitate compliance with applicable Federal and tribal environmental and land use requirements, including any documentation prepared under § 162.027(b);
(h) A resource development plan that describes the type and location of any permanent improvements the lessee plans to install and a schedule showing the tentative commencement and completion dates for those improvements;
(i) A restoration and reclamation plan (and any subsequent modifications to the plan);
(j) Where the lessee is not an entity owned and operated by the tribe, documents that demonstrate the technical capability of the lessee or lessee's agent to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the proposed project and the lessee's ability to successfully design, construct, or obtain the funding for a project similar to the proposed project, if appropriate;
(k) A legal description of the land under § 162.547;
(l) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, information to assist us in our evaluation of the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(m) If the lessee is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity, except a tribal entity, information such as organizational documents, certificates, filing records, and resolutions, that demonstrates that:
(1) The representative has authority to execute a lease;
(2) The lease will be enforceable against the lessee; and
(3) The legal entity is in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the jurisdiction where the land is located.
§ 162.564
Will BIA review a proposed WSR lease before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we will review the proposed WSR lease after negotiation by the parties, before or during preparation of the NEPA review documentation and any valuation. Within 60 days of receiving the proposed lease, we will provide an acknowledgement of the terms of the lease and identify any provisions that, based on this acknowledgment review, would justify disapproval of the lease, pending results of the NEPA review and any valuation.
§ 162.565
What is the approval process for a WSR lease?
(a) Before we approve a WSR lease, we must determine that the lease is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the lease and supporting documents;
(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances;
(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and
(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Upon receiving a WSR lease package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required under this subpart, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation and valuation documentation, where applicable.
(1) If the WSR lease package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a WSR lease package, the parties may take action under § 162.588.
(2) If the WSR lease package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date of receipt. Within 60 days of the receipt date, we will approve or disapprove the lease, return the package for revision, or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. If we inform the parties in writing that we need additional time, then:
(i) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter; and
(ii) We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease.
(c) If we do not meet the deadlines in this section, then the parties may take appropriate action under § 162.588.
(d) We will provide any lease approval or disapproval and the basis for the determination, along with notification of any appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the lease.
(e) We will provide approved WSR leases on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide approved WSR leases on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
§ 162.566
How will BIA decide whether to approve a WSR lease?
(a) We will approve a WSR lease unless:
(1) The required consents have not been obtained from the parties to the lease;
(2) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(3) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the WSR lease is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a WSR lease.
§ 162.567
When will a WSR lease be effective?
(a) A WSR lease will be effective on the date that we approve the lease, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter.
(b) The lease may specify a date on which the obligations between the parties to the lease are triggered. Such date may be before or after the approval date under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 162.568
Must a WSR lease document be recorded?
(a) Any WSR lease document must be recorded in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(1) We will record the lease document immediately following our approval.
(2) If our approval of an assignment or sublease is not required, the parties must record the assignment or sublease in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the leased land.
(b) The tribe must record lease documents for the following types of leases in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the tribal lands, even though BIA approval is not required:
(1) Leases of tribal land that a corporate entity leases to a third party under 25 U.S.C. 477; and
(2) Leases of tribal land under a special act of Congress authorizing leases without our approval.
§ 162.569
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a WSR lease document?
(a) If a party appeals our decision on a WSR lease, assignment, amendment, or sublease, then the official to whom the appeal is made may require the appellant to post an appeal bond in accordance with part 2 of this chapter. We will not require an appeal bond:
(1) For an appeal of a decision on a leasehold mortgage; or
(2) If the tribe is a party to the appeal and requests a waiver of the appeal bond.
(b) The appellant may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The appellant may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.

# WSR Lease Amendments
§ 162.570
May the parties amend a WSR lease?
The parties may amend a WSR lease by obtaining:
(a) The lessee's signature;
(b) The Indian landowners' consent under the requirements in § 162.571; and
(c) BIA approval of the amendment under §§ 162.572 and 162.573.
§ 162.571
What are the consent requirements for an amendment to a WSR lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed amendment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an amendment of a WSR lease in the same percentages and manner as a new WSR lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented if they do not object in writing to the amendment within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the amendment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to an amendment on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to an amendment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this
section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed amendment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the amendment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for review.
(d) Unless specifically authorized in the lease, a written power of attorney, or a court document, Indian landowners may not be deemed to have consented to, and an Indian landowner's designated representative may not negotiate or consent to, an amendment that would:
(1) Reduce the payment obligations to the Indian landowners;
(2) Increase or decrease the lease area;
(3) Terminate or change the term of the lease; or
(4) Modify dispute resolution procedures.
§ 162.572
What is the approval process for an amendment to a WSR lease?
(a) When we receive an amendment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 30 days from receipt of the executed amendment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the amendment or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. Our determination whether to approve the amendment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter. We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the amendment.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, or paragraph (b) of this section if applicable, the amendment is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the amendment that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the amendment will remain in force.
§ 162.573
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment to a WSR lease?
(a) We may disapprove a WSR lease amendment only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(5) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the amendment is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an amendment.

# WSR Lease Assignments
§ 162.574
May a lessee assign a WSR lease?
(a) A lessee may assign a WSR lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.575 and obtaining our approval of the assignment under §§ 162.576 and 162.577 or by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.
(b) Where provided in the lease, the lessee may assign the lease to the following without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval of the assignment, as long as the lessee notifies BIA of the assignment within 30 days after it is executed:
(1) Not more than three distinct legal entities specified in the lease; or
(2) The lessee's wholly owned subsidiaries.
(c) The lessee may assign the lease without our approval or meeting consent requirements if:
(1) The assignee is a leasehold mortgagee or its designee, acquiring the lease either through foreclosure or by conveyance;
(2) The assignee agrees in writing to assume all of the obligations and conditions of the lease; and
(3) The assignee agrees in writing that any transfer of the lease will be in accordance with applicable law under § 162.014.
§ 162.575
What are the consent requirements for an assignment of a WSR lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed assignment.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to an assignment in the same percentages and manner as a new WSR lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the assignment within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the assignment and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to an assignment on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to an assignment.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed assignment or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the assignment to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
(d) The lessee must obtain the consent of the holders of any bonds or mortgages.
§ 162.576
What is the approval process for an assignment of a WSR lease?
(a) When we receive an assignment that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed assignment, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the assignment. Our determination whether to approve the assignment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet any of the deadlines in this section, the lessee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 162.588.
§ 162.577
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a WSR lease?
(a) We may disapprove an assignment of a WSR lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The assignee does not agree to be bound by the terms of the lease;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the assignment would be adversely affected; and
(2) If a performance bond is required, the assignee has posted the bond or security and provided supporting documents that demonstrate that:
(i) The lease will be enforceable against the assignee; and
(ii) The assignee will be able to perform its obligations under the lease or assignment.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the assignment is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an assignment.

# WSR Lease Subleases
§ 162.578
May a lessee sublease a WSR lease?
(a) A lessee may sublease a WSR lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.579 and obtaining our approval of the sublease under §§ 162.580 and 162.581, or by meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The lessee may sublease without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval of the sublease, if:
(1) The lease provides for subleasing without meeting consent requirements or obtaining BIA approval;
(2) The sublease does not relieve the lessee/sublessor of any liability; and
(3) The parties provide BIA with a copy of the sublease within 30 days after it is executed.
§ 162.579
What are the consent requirements for a sublease of a WSR lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed sublease.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to a sublease in the same percentages and manner as a new WSR lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the sublease within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the sublease and the lease meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to a sublease on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(3) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a sublease.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed sublease or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the sublease to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
§ 162.580
What is the approval process for a sublease of a WSR lease?
(a) When we receive a sublease that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed sublease, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the sublease or inform the parties to the sublease and Indian landowners in writing that we need additional review time. Our determination whether to approve the sublease will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) Our letter informing parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter. We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the sublease.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, or paragraph (b) of this section if applicable, the sublease is deemed approved to the extent consistent with Federal law. Unless the lease provides otherwise, provisions of the sublease that are inconsistent with Federal law will be severed and unenforceable; all other provisions of the sublease will remain in force.
§ 162.581
How will BIA decide whether to approve a sublease of a WSR lease?
(a) We may disapprove a sublease of a WSR lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The lessee is in violation of the lease;
(4) The lessee will not remain liable under the lease; and
(5) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section, we may consider whether the value of any part of the leased premises not covered by the sublease would be adversely affected.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the sublease is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a sublease.

# WSR Leasehold Mortgages
§ 162.582
May a lessee mortgage a WSR lease?
(a) A lessee may mortgage a WSR lease by meeting the consent requirements in § 162.583 and obtaining our approval of the leasehold mortgage under §§ 162.584 and 162.585.
(b) Refer to § 162.574(c) for information on what happens if a sale or foreclosure under an approved mortgage of the leasehold interest occurs.
§ 162.583
What are the consent requirements for a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
(a) Unless the lease provides otherwise, the lessee must notify all Indian landowners of the proposed leasehold mortgage.
(b) The Indian landowners, or their representatives under § 162.013, must consent to a leasehold mortgage in the same percentages and manner as a new WSR lease under § 162.012, unless the lease:
(1) States that landowner consent is not required for a leasehold mortgage and identifies what law would apply in case of foreclosure;
(2) Provides that individual Indian landowners are deemed to have consented where they do not object in writing to the leasehold mortgage within a specified period of time following the landowners' receipt of the leasehold mortgage and the lease meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Authorizes one or more representatives to consent to a leasehold mortgage on behalf of all Indian landowners; or
(4) Designates us as the Indian landowners' representative for the purposes of consenting to a leasehold mortgage.
(c) If the lease provides for deemed consent under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must require the parties to submit to us:
(1) A copy of the executed leasehold mortgage or other documentation of any Indian landowners' actual consent;
(2) Proof of mailing of the leasehold mortgage to any Indian landowners who are deemed to have consented; and
(3) Any other pertinent information for us to review.
§ 162.584
What is the approval process for a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
(a) When we receive a leasehold mortgage that meets the requirements of this subpart, we will notify the parties of the date we receive it. We have 20 days from receipt of the executed leasehold mortgage, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the leasehold mortgage. Our determination whether to approve the leasehold mortgage will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the lessee may take appropriate action under § 162.588.
§ 162.585
How will BIA decide whether to approve a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
(a) We may disapprove a leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented and their consent is required;
(2) The lessee's mortgagees or sureties have not consented;
(3) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(4) We find a compelling reason to withhold our approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The leasehold mortgage proceeds would be used for purposes unrelated to the leased premises; and
(2) The leasehold mortgage is limited to the leasehold.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners'
determination that the leasehold mortgage is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a leasehold mortgage.

# WSR Lease Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
§ 162.586
When will an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease be effective?
(a) An amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease will be effective when approved, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter, except:
(1) If the amendment or sublease was deemed approved under § 162.572(b) or § 162.580(b), the amendment or sublease becomes effective 45 days from the date the parties mailed or delivered the document to us for our review or, if we sent a letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease, the amendment or sublease becomes effective 45 days from the date of the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease; and
(2) An assignment that does not require our approval under § 162.574(b) or a sublease that does not require our approval under § 162.578(b) becomes effective on the effective date specified in the assignment or sublease. If the assignment or sublease does not specify the effective date, it becomes effective upon execution by the parties.
(b) We will provide copies of approved documents to the party requesting approval, to the tribe for tribal land, and upon request, to other parties to the lease document.
§ 162.587
What happens if BIA disapproves an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease?
If we disapprove an amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage of a WSR lease, we will notify the parties immediately and advise the landowners of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this chapter.
§ 162.588
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?
(a) If a Superintendent does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage, the parties may file a written notice to compel action with the appropriate Regional Director.
(b) The Regional Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(c) The parties may file a written notice to compel action with the BIA Director if:
(1) The Regional Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(3) The initial decision on the lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage is with the Regional Director, and he or she does not meet the deadline for such decision.
(d) The BIA Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Issue a decision; or
(2) Order the Regional Director or Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.
(e) If the Regional Director or Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set out in the order under paragraph (d)(2), then the BIA Director must issue a decision within 15 days from the expiration of the time set out in the order.
(f) The parties may file an appeal from our inaction to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(g) The provisions of 25 CFR 2.8 do not apply to the inaction of BIA officials with respect to a decision on a lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage under this subpart.
§ 162.589
May BIA investigate compliance with a WSR lease?
(a) We may enter the leased premises at any reasonable time, upon reasonable notice, and consistent with any notice requirements under applicable tribal law and applicable lease documents, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and to determine if the lessee is in compliance with the requirements of the lease.
(b) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific lease violation has occurred, we will promptly initiate an appropriate investigation.
§ 162.590
May a WSR lease provide for negotiated remedies if there is a violation?
(a) A WSR lease of tribal land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies in the event of a lease violation, including, but not limited to, the power to terminate the lease. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA approval of the termination is not required;
(2) The termination is effective without BIA cancellation; and
(3) The Indian landowners must notify us of the termination so that we may record it in the LTRO.
(b) A WSR lease of individually owned Indian land may provide either or both parties with negotiated remedies, so long as the lease also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 of this part. If the lease provides one or both parties with the power to terminate the lease:
(1) BIA concurrence with the termination is required to ensure that the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests have consented; and
(2) BIA will record the termination in the LTRO.
(c) The parties must notify any surety or mortgagee of any violation that may result in termination and the termination of a WSR lease.
(d) Negotiated remedies may apply in addition to, or instead of, the cancellation remedy available to us, as specified in the lease. The landowners may request our assistance in enforcing negotiated remedies.
(e) A WSR lease may provide that lease violations will be addressed by the tribe, and that lease disputes will be resolved by a tribal court, any other court of competent jurisdiction, or by a tribal governing body in the absence of a tribal court, or through an alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to ongoing actions and proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us.
§ 162.591
What will BIA do about a violation of a WSR lease?
(a) In the absence of actions or proceedings described in § 162.590(e), or if it is not appropriate for us to defer to the actions or proceedings, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) If we determine there has been a violation of the conditions of a WSR lease, other than a violation of payment provisions covered by paragraph (c) of this section, we will promptly send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(1) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(2) The notice of violation will advise the lessee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the lessee must:
(i) Cure the violation and notify us, and the tribe for tribal land, in writing that the violation has been cured;
(ii) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred; or
(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.
(3) The notice of violation may order the lessee to cease operations under the lease.
(c) A lessee's failure to pay compensation in the time and manner required by a WSR lease is a violation of the lease, and we will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) We will send the lessees and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested:
(i) Promptly following the date on which payment was due, if the lease requires that payments be made to us; or
(ii) Promptly following the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowners, if the lease provides for payment directly to the Indian landowners.
(2) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(3) The notice of violation will require the lessee to provide adequate proof of payment.
(d) The lessee and its sureties will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the lease until the lease expires or is terminated or cancelled.
§ 162.592
What will BIA do if a lessee does not cure a violation of a WSR lease on time?
(a) If the lessee does not cure a violation of a WSR lease within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, we will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether:
(1) We should cancel the lease;
(2) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the lease;
(3) We should invoke other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available performance bond or, for failure to pay compensation, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or
(4) The lessee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) Following consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, we may take action to recover unpaid compensation and any associated late payment charges.
(1) We do not have to cancel the lease or give any further notice to the lessee before taking action to recover unpaid compensation.
(2) We may still take action to recover any unpaid compensation if we cancel the lease.
(c) If we decide to cancel the lease, we will send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 5 business days of our decision. We will send a copy of the cancellation letter to the tribe for tribal land, and will provide Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land with actual or constructive notice of the cancellation. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) If applicable, notify the lessee of the amount of any unpaid compensation or late payment charges due under the lease;
(3) Notify the lessee of the lessee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, including the possibility that the official to whom the appeal is made may require the lessee to post an appeal bond;
(4) Order the lessee to vacate the property within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and
(5) Order the lessee to take any other action BIA deems necessary to protect the Indian landowners.
(d) We may invoke any other remedies available to us under the lease, including collecting on any available performance bond, and the Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under tribal law.
§ 162.593
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a WSR lease?
(a) Late payment charges will apply as specified in the lease. The failure to pay these amounts will be treated as a lease violation.
(b) We may assess the following special fees to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt, if compensation is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to late payment
charges that must be paid to the Indian landowners under the lease:
The lessee will pay . . .
For . . .
(1) $50.00
Any dishonored check.
(2) $15.00
Processing of each notice or demand letter.
(3) 18 percent of balance due
Treasury processing following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 162.594
How will payment rights relating to WSR leases be allocated?
The WSR lease may allocate rights to payment for insurance proceeds, trespass damages, compensation awards, settlement funds, and other payments between the Indian landowners and the lessee. If not specified in the lease, insurance policy, order, award, judgment, or other document, the Indian landowners will be entitled to receive these payments.
§ 162.595
When will a cancellation of a WSR lease be effective?
(a) A cancellation involving a WSR lease will not be effective until 31 days after the lessee receives a cancellation letter from us, or 41 days from the date we mailed the letter, whichever is earlier.
(b) The cancellation decision will not be effective if an appeal is filed unless the cancellation is made immediately effective under part 2 of this chapter. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the lessee must continue to pay compensation and comply with the other terms of the lease.
§ 162.596
What will BIA do if a lessee remains in possession after a WSR lease expires or is terminated or cancelled?
If a lessee remains in possession after the expiration, termination, or cancellation of a WSR lease, we may treat the unauthorized possession as a trespass under applicable law in consultation with the Indian landowners. Unless the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests under § 162.012 have notified us in writing that they are engaged in good faith negotiations with the holdover lessee to obtain a new lease, we may take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, such as a forcible entry and detainer action.
§ 162.597
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving WSR leases?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal bond provisions in part 2 of this chapter will apply to appeals from lease cancellation decisions.
(b) The lessee may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The lessee may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the appeal bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.
§ 162.598
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a WSR leasing decision?
BIA will issue a decision on an appeal from a WSR leasing decision within 60 days of receipt of all pleadings.
§ 162.599
What happens if the lessee abandons the leased premises?
If a lessee abandons the leased premises, we will treat the abandonment as a violation of the lease. The lease may specify a period of non-use after which the lease premises will be considered abandoned.

# Subpart F—Special Requirements for Certain Reservations
§ 162.600
Crow Reservation.
(a) Notwithstanding the regulations in other sections of this part 162, Crow Indians classified as competent under the Act of June 4, 1920 (41 Stat. 751), as amended, may lease their trust lands and the trust lands of their minor children for farming or grazing purposes without the approval of the Secretary pursuant to the Act of May 26, 1926 (44 Stat. 658), as amended by the Act of March 15, 1948 (62 Stat. 80). However, at their election Crow Indians classified as competent may authorize the Secretary to lease, or assist in the leasing of such lands, and an appropriate notice of such action shall be made a matter of record. When this prerogative is exercised, the general regulations contained in this part 162 shall be
applicable. Approval of the Secretary is required on leases signed by Crow Indians not classified as competent or made on inherited or devised trust lands owned by more than five competent devisees or heirs.
(b) The Act of May 26, 1926 (44 Stat. 658), as amended by the Act of March 15, 1948 (62 Stat. 80), provides that no lease for farming or grazing purposes shall be made for a period longer than five years, except irrigable lands under the Big Horn Canal; which may be leased for periods of ten years. No such lease shall provide the lessee a preference right to future leases which, if exercised, would thereby extend the total period of encumbrance beyond the five or ten years authorized by law.
(c) All leases entered into by Crow Indians classified as competent, under the above-cited special statutes, must be recorded at the Crow Agency. Such recording shall constitute notice to all persons. Under these special statutes, Crow Indians classified as competent are free to lease their property within certain limitations. The five-year (ten-year in the case of lands under the Big Horn Canal) limitation is intended to afford a protection to the Indians. The essence of this protection is the right to deal with the property free, clear, and unencumbered at intervals at least as frequent as those provided by law. If lessees are able to obtain new leases long before the termination of existing leases, they are in a position to set their own terms. In these circumstances lessees could perpetuate their leaseholds and the protection of the statutory limitations as to terms would be destroyed. Therefore, in implementation of the foregoing interpretation, any lease which, on its face, is in violation of statutory limitations or requirements, and any grazing lease executed more than 12 months, and any farming lease executed more than 18 months, prior to the commencement of the term thereof or any lease which purports to cancel an existing lease with the same lessee as of a future date and take effect upon such cancellation will not be recorded. Under a Crow tribal program, approved by the Department of the Interior, competent Crow Indians may, under certain circumstances, enter into agreements which require that, for a specified term, their leases be approved. Information concerning whether a competent Crow Indian has executed such an instrument is available at the office of the Superintendent of the Crow Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Crow Agency, Montana. Any lease entered into with a competent Crow Indian during the time such instrument is in effect and which is not in accordance with such instrument will be returned without recordation.
(d) Where any of the following conditions are found to exist, leases will be recorded but the lessee and lessor will be notified upon discovery of the condition:
(1) The lease in single or counterpart form has not been executed by all owners of the land described in the lease;
(2) There is, of record, a lease on the land for all or a part of the same term;
(3) The lease does not contain stipulations requiring sound land utilization plans and conservation practices; or
(4) There are other deficiencies such as, but not limited to, erroneous land descriptions, and alterations which are not clearly endorsed by the lessor.
(e) Any adult Crow Indian classified as competent shall have the full responsibility for obtaining compliance with the terms of any lease made by him pursuant to this section. This shall not preclude action by the Secretary to assure conservation and protection of these trust lands.
(f) Leases made by competent Crow Indians shall be subject to the right to issue permits and leases to prospect for, develop, and mine oil, gas, and other minerals, and to grant rights-of-way and easements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations. In the issuance or granting of such permits, leases, rights-of-way or easements due consideration will be given to the interests of lessees and to the adjustment of any damages to such interests. In the event of a dispute as to the amount of such damage, the matter will be referred to the Secretary whose determination will be final as to the amount of said damage.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001. Redesignated at 77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012 and correctly redesignated at 78 FR 27860, May 13, 2013]
§ 162.601
Fort Belknap Reservation.
Not to exceed 20,000 acres of allotted and tribal lands (non-irrigable as well as irrigable) on the Fort Belknap Reservation in Montana may be leased for the culture of sugar beets and other crops in rotation for terms not exceeding ten years.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001. Redesignated at 77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012 and correctly redesignated at 78 FR 27860, May 13, 2013]
§ 162.602
Cabazon, Augustine, and Torres-Martinez Reservations, California.
(a) Upon a determination by the Secretary that the owner or owners are not making beneficial use thereof, restricted lands on the Cabazon, Augustine, and Torres-Martinez Indian Reservations which are or may be irrigated from distribution facilities administered by the Coachella Valley County Water District in Riverside County, California, may be leased by the Secretary in accordance with the regulations in this part for the benefit of the owner or owners.
(b) All leases granted or approved on restricted lands of the Cabazon, Augustine, and Torres-Martinez Indian Reservations shall be filed for record in the office of the county recorder of the county in which the land is located, the cost thereof to be paid by the lessee. A copy of each such lease shall be filed by the lessee with the Coachella Valley County Water District or such other irrigation or water district within which the leased lands are located. All such leases shall include a provision that the lessee, in addition to the rentals provided for in the lease, shall pay all irrigation charges properly assessed against the land which became payable during the term of the lease. Act of August 25, 1950 (64 Stat. 470); Act of August 28, 1958 (72 Stat. 968).
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001. Redesignated at 77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012 and correctly redesignated at 78 FR 27860, May 13, 2013]
§ 162.603
San Xavier and Salt River Pima-Maricopa Reservations.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
The Act of November 2, 1966 (80 Stat. 1112), provides statutory authority for long-term leasing on the San Xavier and Salt River Pima-Maricopa Reservations, Arizona, in addition to that contained in the Act of August 9, 1955 (69 Stat. 539), as amended (25 U.S.C. 415). When leases are made under the 1955 Act on the San Xavier or Salt River Pima-Maricopa Reservations, the regulations in part 162 apply. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for implementation of the 1966 Act. The 1966 Act does not apply to leases made for purposes that are subject to the laws governing mining leases on Indian lands.
(b)
Duration of leases.
Leases made under the 1966 Act for public, religious, educational, recreational, residential, or business purposes may be made for terms of not to exceed 99 years. The terms of a grazing lease shall not exceed ten years; the term of a farming lease that does not require the making of a substantial investment in the improvement of the land shall not exceed ten years; and the term of a farming lease that requires the making of a substantial investment in the improvement of the land shall not exceed 40 years. No lease shall contain an option to renew which extends the total term beyond the maximum term permitted by this section.
(c)
Required covenant and enforcement thereof.
Every lease under the 1966 Act shall contain a covenant on the part of the lessee that he will not commit or permit on the leased land any act that causes waste or a nuisance or which creates a hazard to health of persons or to property wherever such persons or property may be.
(d)
Notification regarding leasing proposals.
If the Secretary determines that a proposed lease to be made under the 1966 Act for public, religious, educational, recreational, residential, or business purposes will substantially affect the governmental interests of a municipality contiguous to the San Xavier Reservation or the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Reservation, as the case may be, he shall notify the appropriate authority of such municipality of the pendency of the proposed lease. The Secretary may, in his discretion, furnish such municipality with an outline of the major provisions of the lease which affect its governmental interests and shall consider any comments on
the terms of the lease affecting the municipality or on the absence of such terms from the lease that the authorities may offer. The notice to the authorities of the municipality shall set forth a reasonable period, not to exceed 30 days, within which any such comments shall be submitted.
(e)
Applicability of other regulations.
The regulations in part 162 of this title shall apply to leases made under the 1966 Act except where such regulations are inconsistent with this section.
(f)
Mission San Xavier del Bac.
Nothing in the 1966 Act authorizes development that would detract from the scenic, historic, and religious values of the Mission San Xavier del Bac owned by the Franciscan Order of Friars Minor and located on the San Xavier Reservation.
[66 FR 7109, Jan. 22, 2001. Redesignated at 77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012 and correctly redesignated at 78 FR 27860, May 13, 2013]

# Subpart G—Records

# Source:
77 FR 72494, Dec. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 162.701
Who owns the records associated with this part?
(a) Records are the property of the United States if they:
(1) Are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of a Federal trust function under 25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.,
including the operation of a trust program; and
(2) Evidence the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a Federal trust function under this part.
(b) Records not covered by paragraph (a) of this section that are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part are the property of the tribe.
§ 162.702
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Any organization, including a tribe or tribal organization, that has records identified in § 162.701(a) of this part, must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapters 29, 31 and 33. These records and related records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act are subject to inspection by the Secretary and the Archivist of the United States.
(b) A tribe or tribal organization should preserve the records identified in § 162.701(b) of this part, for the period of time authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records under 44 U.S.C. chapter 33. If a tribe or tribal organization does not preserve records associated with its conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part, it may prevent the tribe or tribal organization from being able to adequately document essential transactions or furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights or those of persons directly affected by its activities.
§ 162.703
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collections of information in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0155. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.
Pt. 163

# PART 163—GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
163.1
Definitions.
163.2
Information collection.
163.3
Scope and objectives.
163.4
Secretarial recognition of tribal laws.

# Subpart B—Forest Management and Operations
163.10
Management of Indian forest land.
163.11
Forest management planning and sustained yield management.
163.12
Harvesting restrictions.
163.13
Indian tribal forest enterprise operations.
163.14
Sale of forest products.
163.15
Advertisement of sales.
163.16
Forest product sales without advertisement.
163.17
Deposit with bid.
163.18
Acceptance and rejection of bids.
163.19
Contracts for the sale of forest products.
163.20
Execution and approval of contracts.
163.21
Bonds required.
163.22
Payment for forest products.
163.23
Advance payment for timber products.
163.24
Duration of timber contracts.
163.25
Forest management deductions.
163.26
Forest product harvesting permits.
163.27
Free-use harvesting without permits.
163.28
Fire management measures.
163.29
Trespass.
163.30
Revocable road use and construction permits for removal of commercial forest products.
163.31
Insect and disease control.
163.32
Forest development.
163.33
Administrative appeals.
163.34
Environmental compliance.
163.35
Indian forest land assistance account.
163.36
Tribal forestry program financial support.
163.37
Forest management research.

# Subpart C—Forestry Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment and Training
163.40
Indian and Alaska Native forestry education assistance.
163.41
Postgraduation recruitment, continuing education and training programs.
163.42
Obligated service and breach of contract.

# Subpart D—Alaska Native Technical Assistance Program
163.60
Purpose and scope.
163.61
Evaluation committee.
163.62
Annual funding needs assessment and rating.
163.63
Contract, grant, or agreement application and award process.

# Subpart E—Cooperative Agreements
163.70
Purpose of agreements.
163.71
Agreement funding.
163.72
Supervisory relationship.

# Subpart F—Program Assessment
163.80
Periodic assessment report.
163.81
Assessment guidelines.
163.82
Annual status report.
163.83
Assistance from the Secretary of Agriculture.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2, 5, 9, 13, 406, 407, 413, 415, 466; and 3101-3120.

# Source:
60 FR 52260, Oct. 5, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 163.1
Definitions.
Advance deposits
means, in Timber Contract for the Sale of Estimated Volumes, contract-required deposits in advance of cutting which the purchaser furnishes to maintain an operating balance against which the value of timber to be cut will be charged.
Advance payments
means, in Timber Contract for the Sale of Estimated Volumes, non-refundable partial payments of the estimated value of the timber to be cut. Payments are furnished within 30 days of contract approval and prior to cutting. Advance payments are normally 25 percent of the estimated value of the forest products on each allotment. Advance payments may be required for tribal land.
Alaska Native
means native as defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of December 18, 1971 (43 U.S.C. 1604).
ANCSA corporation
means both profit and non-profit corporations established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1604).
Approval
means authorization by the Secretary, Area Director, Superintendent, tribe or individual Indian in accordance with appropriate delegations of authority.
Approving officer
means the officer approving instruments of sale for forest products or his/her authorized representative.
Authorized representative
means an individual or entity duly empowered to make decisions under a direct, clear, and specific delegation of authority.
Authorized tribal representative
means an individual or entity duly empowered to make decisions under a direct, clear, and specific delegation of authority from an Indian tribe.
Beneficial owner
means an individual or entity who holds an ownership interest in Indian land.
Bid deposit
means, in Timber Contract for the Sale of Estimated Volumes or in Timber Contract for the Sale of Predetermined Volumes, a deposit with bid furnished by prospective purchasers. At contract execution, the bid deposit of the successful bidder becomes a portion of the contract required advance deposit in estimated
volume contracts or an installment payment in predetermined volume contracts.
Commercial forest land
means forest land that is producing or capable of producing crops of marketable forest products and is administratively available for intensive management and sustained production.
Expenditure plan
means a written agreement between an Indian tribe and the Secretary documenting tribal commitment to undertake specified forest land management activities within general time frames.
Forest or forest land
means an ecosystem at least one acre in size, including timberland and woodland, which: Is characterized by a more or less dense and extensive tree cover; contains, or once contained, at least ten percent tree crown cover, and is not developed or planned for exclusive non-forest resource use.
Forest land management activities
means all activities performed in the management of Indian forest land including:
(a) All aspects of program administration and executive direction such as:
(1) Development and maintenance of policy and operational procedures, program oversight, and evaluation;
(2) Securing of legal assistance and handling of legal matters;
(3) Budget, finance, and personnel management; and
(4) Development and maintenance of necessary data bases and program reports.
(b) All aspects of the development, preparation and revision of forest inventory and management plans, including aerial photography, mapping, field management inventories and re- inventories, inventory analysis, growth studies, allowable annual cut calculations, environmental assessment, and forest history, consistent with and reflective of tribal integrated resource management plans where such plans exist.
(c) Forest land development, including forestation, thinning, tree improvement activities, and the use of silvicultural treatments to restore or increase growth and yield to the full productive capacity of the forest environment.
(d) Protection against losses from wildfire, including acquisition and maintenance of fire fighting equipment and fire detection systems, construction of fire breaks, hazard reduction, prescribed burning, and the development of cooperative wildfire management agreements.
(e) Protection against insects and disease, including:
(1) All aspects of detection and evaluation;
(2) Preparation of project proposals containing project descriptions, environmental assessments and statements, and cost- benefit analyses necessary to secure funding;
(3) Field suppression operations and reporting.
(f) Assessment of damage caused by forest trespass, infestation or fire, including field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and report, demand letter, and testimony preparation.
(g) All aspects of the preparation, administration, and supervision of timber sale contracts, paid and free use permits, and other Indian forest product harvest sale documents, including;
(1) Cruising, product marketing, silvicultural prescription, appraisal and harvest supervision;
(2) Forest product marketing assistance, including evaluation of marketing and development opportunities related to Indian forest products and consultation and advice to tribes, tribal and Indian enterprises on maximization of return on forest products;
(3) Archeological, historical, environmental and other land management reviews, clearances, and analyses;
(4) Advertising, executing, and supervising contracts;
(5) Marking and scaling of timber; and
(6) Collecting, recording and distributing receipts from sales.
(h) Provision of financial assistance for the education of Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled in accredited programs of postsecondary and postgraduate forestry and forestry-related fields of study, including the provision of scholarships, internships, relocation assistance, and other forms of assistance to cover educational expenses.
(i) Participation in the development and implementation of tribal integrated resource management plans, including activities to coordinate current and future multiple uses of Indian forest lands.
(j) Improvement and maintenance of extended season primary and secondary Indian forest land road systems.
(k) Research activities to improve the basis for determining appropriate management measures to apply to Indian forest land.
Forest management deduction
means a percentage of the gross proceeds from the sales of forest products harvested from Indian land which is collected by the Secretary pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 413 to cover in whole or in part the cost of managing and protecting such Indian forest lands.
Forest management plan
means the principal document, approved by the Secretary, reflecting and consistent with an integrated resource management plan, which provides for the regulation of the detailed, multiple-use operation of Indian forest land by methods ensuring that such lands remain in a continuously productive state while meeting the objectives of the tribe and which shall include: Standards setting forth the funding and staffing requirements necessary to carry out each management plan, with a report of current forestry funding and staffing levels; and standards providing quantitative criteria to evaluate performance against the objectives set forth in the plan.
Forest products
means marketable products extracted from Indian forests, such as: Timber; timber products, including lumber, lath, crating, ties, bolts, logs, pulpwood, fuelwood, posts, poles, and split products; bark; Christmas trees, stays, branches, firewood, berries, mosses, pinyon nuts, roots, acorns, syrups, wild rice, mushrooms, and herbs; other marketable material; and gravel which is extracted from, and utilized on, Indian forest land.
Forestry-related field
or
forestry-related curriculum
means a renewable natural resource management field necessary to manage Indian forest land and other professionally recognized fields as approved by the education committee established pursuant to § 163.40(a)(1).
Forest resources
means all the benefits derived from Indian forest land, including forest products, soil productivity, water, fisheries, wildlife, recreation, and aesthetic or other traditional values of Indian forest land.
Forester intern
means an Indian or Alaska Native who: Is employed as a forestry or forestry-related technician with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, an Indian tribe, or tribal forest-related enterprise; is acquiring necessary academic qualifications to become a forester or a professional trained in forestry-related fields; and is appointed to one of the Forester Intern positions established pursuant to § 163.40(b).
Indian
means a member of an Indian tribe.
Indian enterprise
means an enterprise which is designated as such by the Secretary or tribe.
Indian forest land
means Indian land, including commercial, non-commercial, productive and non-productive timberland and woodland, that are considered chiefly valuable for the production of forest products or to maintain watershed or other land values enhanced by a forest cover, regardless of whether a formal inspection and land classification action has been taken.
Indian land
means land title which is held by: The United States in trust for an Indian, an individual of Indian or Alaska Native ancestry who is not a member of a federally-recognized Indian tribe, or an Indian tribe; or by an Indian, an individual of Indian or Alaska Native ancestry who is not a member of a federally recognized tribe, or an Indian tribe subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation.
Indian tribe
or
tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, Pueblo or other organized group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians and shall mean, where appropriate, the recognized tribal government of such tribe's reservation.
Installment payments
means, in Timber Contract for the Sale of Predetermined Volumes, scheduled partial payments of the total contract value based
on purchaser bid. Payments made are normally not refundable.
Integrated resource management plan
means a document, approved by an Indian tribe and the Secretary, which provides coordination for the comprehensive management of the natural resources of such tribe's reservation.
Noncommercial forest land
means forest land that is available for extensive management, but is incapable of producing sustainable forest products within the general rotation period. Such land may be economically harvested, but the site quality does not warrant significant investment to enhance future crops.
Productive forest land
means forest land producing or capable of producing marketable forest products that is unavailable for harvest because of administrative restrictions or because access is not practical.
Reservation
means an Indian reservation established pursuant to treaties, Acts of Congress, or Executive Orders and public domain Indian allotments, Alaska Native allotments, rancherias, and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her authorized representative.
Stumpage rate
means the stumpage value per unit of measure for a forest product.
Stumpage value
means the value of a forest product prior to extraction from Indian forest land.
Sustained yield
means the yield of forest products that a forest can produce continuously at a given intensity of management.
Timberland
means forest land stocked, or capable of being stocked, with tree species that are regionally utilized for lumber, pulpwood, poles or veneer products.
Trespass
means the removal of forest products from, or damaging forest products on, Indian forest land, except when authorized by law and applicable federal or tribal regulations. Trespass can include any damage to forest resources on Indian forest land resulting from activities under contracts or permits or from fire.
Tribal forest enterprise
means an Indian enterprise that is initiated and organized by a reservation's recognized tribal government.
Unproductive forest land
means forest land that is not producing or capable of producing marketable forest products and is also unavailable for harvest because of administrative restrictions or because access is not practical.
Woodland
means forest land not included within the timberland classification, stocked, or capable of being stocked, with tree species of such form and size to produce forest products that are generally marketable within the region for products other than lumber, pulpwood, or veneer.
§ 163.2
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in 25 CFR part 163 do not require the approval of the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3504(h)
et seq.
§ 163.3
Scope and objectives.
(a) The regulations in this part are applicable to all Indian forest land except as this part may be superseded by legislation.
(b) Indian forest land management activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be designed to achieve the following objectives:
(1) The development, maintenance and enhancement of Indian forest land in a perpetually productive state in accordance with the principles of sustained yield and with the standards and objectives set forth in forest management plans by providing effective management and protection through the application of sound silvicultural and economic principles to the harvesting of forest products, forestation, timber stand improvement and other forestry practices;
(2) The regulation of Indian forest land through the development and implementation, with the full and active consultation and participation of the appropriate Indian tribe, of forest management plans which are supported by written tribal objectives;
(3) The regulation of Indian forest land in a manner that will ensure the use of good method and order in harvesting so as to make possible, on a
sustained yield basis, continuous productivity and a perpetual forest business;
(4) The development of Indian forest land and associated value-added industries by Indians and Indian tribes to promote self-sustaining communities, so that Indians may receive from their Indian forest land not only stumpage value, but also the benefit of all the labor and profit that such Indian forest land is capable of yielding;
(5) The retention of Indian forest land in its natural state when an Indian tribe determines that the recreational, cultural, aesthetic, or traditional values of the Indian forest land represents the highest and best use of the land;
(6) The management and protection of forest resources to retain the beneficial effects to Indian forest land of regulating water run-off and minimizing soil erosion; and
(7) The maintenance and improvement of timber productivity, grazing, wildlife, fisheries, recreation, aesthetic, cultural and other traditional values.
§ 163.4
Secretarial recognition of tribal laws.
Subject to the Secretary's trust responsibilities, and unless otherwise prohibited by Federal statutory law, the Secretary shall comply with tribal laws pertaining to Indian forest land, including laws regulating the environment or historic or cultural preservation, and shall cooperate with the enforcement of such laws on Indian forest land. Such cooperation does not constitute a waiver of United States sovereign immunity and shall include:
(a) Assistance in the enforcement of such laws;
(b) Provision of notice of such laws to persons or entities undertaking activities on Indian forest land; and
(c) Upon the request of an Indian tribe, the appearance in tribal forums.

# Subpart B—Forest Management and Operations
§ 163.10
Management of Indian forest land.
(a) The Secretary shall undertake forest land management activities on Indian forest land, either directly or through contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended).
(b) Indian forest land management activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be designed to achieve objectives enumerated in § 163.3 of this part.
§ 163.11
Forest management planning and sustained yield management.
(a) To further the objectives identified in § 163.3 of this part, an appropriate forest management plan shall be prepared and revised as needed for all Indian forest lands. Such documents shall contain a statement describing the manner in which the policies of the tribe and the Secretary will be applied, with a definite plan of silvicultural management, analysis of the short term and long term effects of the plan, and a program of action, including a harvest schedule, for a specified period in the future. Forest management plans shall be based on the principle of sustained yield management and objectives established by the tribe and will require approval of the Secretary.
(b) Forest management planning for Indian forest land shall be carried out through participation in the development and implementation of integrated resource management plans which provide coordination for the comprehensive management of all natural resources on Indian land. If the integrated resource management planning process has not been initiated, or is not ongoing or completed, a stand-alone forest management plan will be prepared.
(c) The harvest of forest products from Indian forest land will be accomplished under the principles of sustained yield management and will not be authorized until practical methods of harvest based on sound economic and silvicultural and other forest management principles have been prescribed. Harvest schedules will be prepared for a specified period of time and updated annually. Such schedules shall support the objectives of the beneficial land owners and the Secretary and shall be directed toward achieving an approximate balance between net
growth and harvest at the earliest practical time.
§ 163.12
Harvesting restrictions.
(a) Harvesting timber on commercial forest land will not be permitted unless provisions for natural and/or artificial reforestation of acceptable tree species is included in harvest plans.
(b) Clearing of large contiguous areas will be permitted only on land that, when cleared, will be devoted to a more beneficial use than growing timber crops. This restriction shall not prohibit clearcutting when it is silviculturally appropriate, based on ecological principles, to harvest a particular stand of timber by such method and it otherwise conforms with objectives in § 163.3 of this part.
§ 163.13
Indian tribal forest enterprise operations.
Indian tribal forest enterprises may be initiated and organized with consent of the authorized tribal representatives. Such enterprises may contract for the purchase of non-Indian owned forest products. Subject to approval by the Secretary the following actions may be taken:
(a) Authorized tribal enterprises may enter into formal agreements with tribal representatives for the use of tribal forest products, and with individual beneficial Indian owners for their forest products;
(b) Authorized officials of tribal enterprises, operating under approved agreements for the use of Indian-owned forest products pursuant to this section, may sell the forest products produced according to generally accepted trade practices;
(c) With the consent of the beneficial Indian owners, such enterprises may, without advertisement, contract for the purchase of forest products on Indian land at stumpage rates authorized by the Secretary;
(d) Determination of and payment for stumpage and/or products utilized by such enterprises will be authorized in accordance with § 163.22. However, the Secretary may issue special instructions for payment by methods other than those in § 163.22 of this part; and
(e) Performance bonds may or may not be required in connection with operations on Indian land by such enterprises as determined by the Secretary.
§ 163.14
Sale of forest products.
(a) Consistent with the economic objectives of the tribe and with the consent of the Secretary and authorized by tribal resolution or resolution of recognized tribal government, open market sales of Indian forest products may be authorized. Such sales require consent of the authorized representatives of the tribe for the sale of tribal forest products, and the owners of a majority Indian interest on individually owned lands. Open market sales of forest products from Indian land located off reservations will be permitted with the consent of the Secretary and majority Indian interest of the beneficial Indian owner(s).
(b) On individually owned Indian forest land not formally designated for retention in its natural state, the Secretary may, after consultation, sell the forest products without the consent of the owner(s) when in his or her judgment such action is necessary to prevent loss of value resulting from fire, insects, diseases, windthrow or other catastrophes.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, each sale of forest products having an estimated stumpage value exceeding $15,000 will not be approved until:
(1) An examination of the forest products to be sold has been made by a forest officer; and
(2) A report setting forth all pertinent information has been submitted to the approving officer as provided in § 163.20 of this part.
(d) With the approval of the Secretary, authorized beneficial Indian owners who have been duly apprised as to the value of the forest products to be sold, may sell or transfer forest products for less than the appraised value.
(e) Except as provided in § 163.14(d) of this part, in all such sales, the forest products shall be appraised and sold at stumpage rates not less than those established by the Secretary.
§ 163.15
Advertisement of sales.
Except as provided in §§ 163.13, 163.14, 163.16, and 163.26 of this part, sales of
forest products shall be made only after advertising.
(a) The advertisement shall be approved by the officer who will approve the instrument of sale. Advertised sales shall be made under sealed bids, or at public auction, or under a combination thereof. The advertisement may limit sales of Indian forest products to Indian forest enterprises, members of the tribe, or may grant to Indian forest enterprises and/or members of the tribe who submitted bids the right to meet the higher bid of a non-member. If the estimated stumpage value of the forest products offered does not exceed $15,000, the advertisement may be made by posters and circular letters. If the estimated stumpage value exceeds $15,000, the advertisement shall also be made in at least one edition of a newspaper of general circulation in the locality where the forest products are situated. If the estimated stumpage value does not exceed $50,000, the advertisement shall be made for not less than 15 days; if the estimated stumpage value exceeds $50,000 but not $250,000, for not less than 30 days; and if the estimated stumpage value exceeds $250,000, for not less than 60 days.
(b) The approving officer may reduce the advertising period because of emergencies such as fire, insect attack, blowdown, limitation of time, or when there would be no practical advantage in advertising for the prescribed period.
(c) If no instrument of sale is executed after such advertisement, the approving officer may, within one year from the last day on which bids were to be received as defined in the advertisement, permit the sale of such forest products. The sale will be made upon the terms and conditions in the advertisement and at not less than the advertised value or the appraised value at the time of sale, whichever is greater.
§ 163.16
Forest product sales without advertisement.
(a) Sales of forest products may be made without advertisement to Indians or non-Indians with the consent of the authorized tribal representatives for tribal forest products or with the consent of the beneficial owners of a majority Indian interest of individually owned Indian land, and the approval of the Secretary when:
(1) Forest products are to be cut in conjunction with the granting of a right-of-way;
(2) Granting an authorized occupancy;
(3) Tribal forest products are to be purchased by an Indian tribal forest enterprise;
(4) It is impractical to secure competition by formal advertising procedures;
(5) It must be cut to protect the forest from injury; or
(6) Otherwise specifically authorized by law.
(b) The approving officer shall establish a documented record of each negotiated transaction. This will include:
(1) A written determination and finding that the transaction is a type allowing use of negotiation procedures;
(2) The extent of solicitation and competition, or a statement of the facts upon which a finding of impracticability of securing competition is based; and
(3) A statement of the factors on which the award is based, including a determination as to the reasonability of the price accepted.
§ 163.17
Deposit with bid.
(a) A deposit shall be made with each proposal for the purchase of Indian forest products. Such deposits shall be at least:
(1) Ten (10) percent if the appraised stumpage value is less than $100,000 and in any event not less than $1,000 or full value whichever is less;
(2) Five (5) percent if the appraised stumpage value is $100,000 to $250,000 but in any event not less than $10,000; and
(3) Three (3) percent if the appraised stumpage value exceeds $250,000 but in any event not less than $12,500.
(b) Deposits shall be in the form of either a certified check, cashier's check, bank draft, postal money order, or irrevocable letter-of-credit, drawn payable as specified in the advertisement, or in cash.
(c) The deposit of the apparent high bidder, and of others who submit a written request to have their bids considered for acceptance will be retained
pending acceptance or rejection of the bids. All other deposits will be returned following the opening and posting of bids.
(d) The deposit of the successful bidder will be forfeited and distributed as damages to the beneficial owners if the bidder does not:
(1) Furnish the performance bond required by § 163.21 of this part within the time stipulated in the advertisement for sale of forest products;
(2) Execute the contract; or
(3) Perform the contract.
(e) Forfeiture of a deposit does not limit or waive any further claims for damages available under applicable law or terms of the contract.
(f) In the event of an administrative appeal under 25 CFR part 2, the Secretary may hold such bid deposits in an escrow account pending resolution of the appeal.
§ 163.18
Acceptance and rejection of bids.
(a) The high bid received in accordance with any advertisement issued under authority of this part shall be accepted, except that the approving officer, having set forth the reason(s) in writing, shall have the right to reject the high bid if:
(1) The high bidder is considered unqualified to fulfill the contractual requirement of the advertisement; or
(2) There are reasonable grounds to consider it in the interest of the Indians to reject the high bid.
(b) If the high bid is rejected, the approving officer may authorize:
(1) Rejection of all bids; or
(2) Acceptance of the offer of another bidder who, at bid opening, makes written request that their bid and bid deposit be held pending a bid acceptance.
(c) The officer authorized to accept the bid shall have the discretion to waive minor technical defects in advertisements and proposals, such as typographical errors and misplaced entries.
§ 163.19
Contracts for the sale of forest products.
(a) In sales of forest products with an appraised stumpage value exceeding $15,000, the contract forms approved by the Secretary must be used unless a special form for a particular sale or class of sales is approved by the Secretary.
(b) Unless otherwise directed, the contracts for forest products from individually-owned Indian land will be paid by remittance drawn to the Bureau of Indian Affairs and transmitted to the Superintendent. Upon the request of the tribe, the contracts for tribal forest products may require that the proceeds be paid promptly and directly into a bank depository account designated by such tribe, or by remittance drawn to the Bureau of Indian Affairs and transmitted to the Superintendent.
(c) By mutual agreement of the parties to a contract, contracts may be extended, modified, or assigned subject to approval by the approving officer, and may be terminated by the approving officer upon completion or by mutual agreement.
§ 163.20
Execution and approval of contracts.
(a) All contracts for the sale of tribal forest products shall be executed by the authorized tribal representative(s). There shall be included with the contract an affidavit executed by the authorized tribal representative(s) setting forth the resolution or other authority of the governing body of the tribe. Contracts must be approved by the Secretary to be valid.
(b) Contracts for the sale of individually owned forest products shall be executed by the beneficial Indian owner(s) or the Secretary acting pursuant to a power of attorney from the beneficial Indian owner(s). Contracts must be approved by the Secretary to be valid.
(1) The Secretary may, after consultation with any legally appointed guardian, execute contracts on behalf of minors and beneficial Indian owners who are non compos mentis.
(2) The Secretary may execute contracts for a decedent's estate where ownership has not been determined or for those persons who cannot be located after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication.
(3) Upon the request of the owner of an undivided but unrestricted interest in land in which there are trust or restricted Indian interests, the Secretary
may include such unrestricted interest in a sale of the trust or restricted interests in the timber, pursuant to this part, and perform any functions required of him/her by the contract of sale for both the restricted and the unrestricted interests, including the collection and disbursement of payments for timber and the forest management deductions from such payments.
(4) When consent of only a majority interest has been obtained, the Secretary may execute the sale on behalf of all owners to fulfill responsibilities to the beneficiaries of the trust. In such event, the contract file must contain evidence of the effort to obtain consent of all owners. When an individual cannot be located, the Secretary, after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication, may sign a power of attorney consenting to the sale for particular interests. For Indian forest land containing undivided restricted and unrestricted interests, only the restricted interests are considered in determining if a majority interest has been obtained.
§ 163.21
Bonds required.
(a) Performance bonds will be required in connection with all sales of forest products, except they may or may not be required, as determined by the approving officer, in connection with the use of forest products by Indian tribal forest enterprises pursuant to this part in § 163.13 or in timber cutting permits issued pursuant to § 163.26 of this part.
(1) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value, calculated at the appraised stumpage rates, does not exceed $15,000, the bond shall be at least 20 percent of the estimated stumpage value.
(2) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $15,000 but is not over $150,000, the bond shall be at least 15 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $3,000.
(3) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $150,000, but is not over $350,000, the bond shall be at least 10 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $22,500.
(4) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $350,000, the bond shall be at least 5 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $35,000.
(b) Bonds shall be in a form acceptable to the approving officer and may include:
(1) A corporate surety bond by an acceptable surety company;
(2) A cash bond designating the approving officer to act as trustee under terms of an appropriate trust;
(3) Negotiable U.S. Government securities supported by an appropriate trust instrument; or
(4) An irrevocable letter of credit.
§ 163.22
Payment for forest products.
(a) The basis of volume determination for forest products sold shall be the Scribner Decimal C log rules, cubic volume, lineal measurement, piece count, weight, or such other form of measurement as the Secretary may authorize for use. With the exception of Indian tribal forest enterprises pursuant to § 163.13 of this part, payment for forest products will be required in advance of cutting for timber, or removal for other forest products.
(b) Upon the request of an Indian tribe, the Secretary may provide that the purchaser of the forest products of such tribe, which are harvested under a timber sale contract, permit, or other harvest sale document to make advanced deposits, or direct payments of the gross proceeds of such forest products, less any amounts segregated as forest management deductions pursuant to § 163.25 of this part, into accounts designated by such Indian tribe. Such accounts may be in one or more of the following formats:
(1) Escrow accounts at a tribally designated financial institution for receiving deposits with bids and advance deposits from which direct disbursements for timber harvested shall be made to tribes and forest management deductions accounts; or
(2) Tribal depository accounts for receiving advance payments, installment payments, payments from Indian tribal forest enterprises, and/or disbursements from advance deposit accounts or escrow accounts.
(c) The format must allow the Secretary to maintain trust responsibility through written verification that all required deposits, payments, and disbursements have been made.
(d) Terms and conditions for payment of forest products under lump sum (predetermined volume) sales shall be specified in forest product contract documents.
§ 163.23
Advance payment for timber products.
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, and except in the case of lump sum (predetermined volume) sales, contracts for the sale of timber from allotted, trust or restricted Indian forest land shall provide for an advance payment of up to 25 percent of the stumpage value, calculated at the bid price, within 30 days from the date of approval and before cutting begins. Additional advance payments may be specified in contracts. However, no advance payment will be required that would make the sum of such payment and of advance deposits and advance payments previously applied against timber cut from each ownership in a sale exceed 50 percent of the bid stumpage value. Advance payments shall be credited against the timber of each ownership in the sale as the timber is cut and scaled at stumpage rates governing at the time of scaling. Advance payments are not refundable.
(b) Advance payments may be required on tribal land. When required, advance payments will operate the same as provided for in § 163.23(a) of this part.
§ 163.24
Duration of timber contracts.
After the effective date of a forest product contract, unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, the maximum period which shall be allowed for harvesting the estimated volume of timber purchased, shall be five years.
§ 163.25
Forest management deductions.
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 413 and 25 U.S.C. 3105, a forest management deduction shall be withheld from the gross proceeds of sales of forest products harvested from Indian forest land as described in this section.
(b) Gross proceeds shall mean the value in money or money's worth of consideration furnished by the purchaser of forest products purchased under a contract, permit, or other document for the sale of forest products.
(c) Forest management deductions shall not be withheld where the total consideration furnished under a contract, permit or other document for the sale of forest products is less than $5,001.
(d) Except as provided in § 163.25(e) of this part, the amount of the forest management deduction shall not exceed the lesser amount of ten percent (10%) of the gross proceeds or, the actual percentage in effect on November 28, 1990.
(e) The Secretary may increase the forest management deduction percentage for Indian forest land upon receipt of a written request from a tribe supported by a resolution executed by the authorized tribal representatives. At the request of the authorized tribal representatives and at the discretion of the Secretary the forest management deduction percentage may be decreased to not less than one percent (1%) or the requirement for collection may be waived.
(f) Forest management deductions are to be utilized to perform forest land management activities in accordance with an approved expenditure plan. Expenditure plans shall describe the forest land management activities anticipated to be undertaken, establish a time period for their completion, summarize anticipated obligations and expenditures, and specify the method through which funds are to be transferred or credited to tribal accounts from special deposit accounts established to hold amounts withheld as forest management deductions. Any forest management deductions that have not been incorporated into an approved expenditure plan by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the deductions are withheld, shall be collected into the general funds of the United States Treasury pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 413.
(1) For Indian forest lands located on an Indian reservation, a written expenditure plan for the use of forest
management deductions shall be prepared annually and approved by the authorized tribal representative(s) and the Secretary. The approval of the expenditure plan by the authorized tribal representatives constitutes allocation of tribal funds for Indian forest land management activities. Approval of the expenditure plan by the Secretary shall constitute authority for crediting of forest management deductions to tribal account(s). The full amount of any deduction collected by the Secretary plus any income or interest earned thereon shall be available for expenditure according to the approved expenditure plan for the performance of forest land management activities on the reservation from which the forest management deduction is collected.
(2) Forest management deductions shall be handled in the same manner as described under § 163.25(f)(1) of this part if the expenditure plan approved by an Indian tribe and the Secretary provides for the conduct of forest land management activities on Indian forest lands located outside the boundaries of an Indian reservation.
(3) For public domain and Alaska Native allotments held in trust for Indians by the United States, forest management deductions may be utilized to perform forest land management activities on such lands in accordance with an expenditure plan approved by the Secretary.
(g) Forest management deductions withheld pursuant to this section shall not be available to cover the costs that are paid from funds appropriated for fire suppression or pest control or otherwise offset federal appropriations for meeting the Federal trust responsibility for management of Indian forest land.
(h) Within 120 days after the close of the tribal fiscal year, tribes shall submit to the Secretary a written report detailing the actual expenditure of forest management deductions during the past fiscal year. The Secretary shall have the right to inspect accounts, books, or other tribal records supporting the report.
(i) Forest management deductions incorporated into an expenditure plan approved by the Secretary shall remain available until expended.
(j) As provided in § 163.25(f) of this part, only forest management deductions that have not been incorporated into an approved expenditure plan may be deposited to a U.S. Treasury miscellaneous receipt account. No amount collected as forest management deductions shall be credited to any Federal appropriation. No other forest management deductions or fees derived from Indian forest land shall be collected to be covered into the general funds of the United States Treasury.
§ 163.26
Forest product harvesting permits.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 163.13 and 163.27 of this part, removal of forest products that are not under formal contract, pursuant to § 163.19, shall be under forest product harvesting permit forms approved by the Secretary. Permits will be issued only with the written consent of the beneficial Indian owner(s) or the Secretary, for harvest of forest products from Indian forest land, as authorized in § 163.20 of this part. To be valid, permits must be approved by the Secretary. Minimum stumpage rates at which forest products may be sold will be set at the time consent to issue the permit is obtained. Payment and bonding requirements will be stipulated in the permit document as appropriate.
(b) Free use harvesting permits issued shall specify species and types of forest products to be removed. It may be stipulated that forest products removed under this authority cannot be sold or exchanged for other goods or services. The estimated value which may be harvested in a fiscal year by any individual under this authority shall not exceed $5,000. For the purpose of issuance of free use permits, individual shall mean an individual Indian or any organized group of Indians.
(c) Paid permits subject to forest management deductions, as provided in § 163.25 of this part, may be issued. Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, the stumpage value which may be harvested under paid permits in a fiscal year by any individual under this authority shall not exceed $25,000. For the purpose of issuance of paid permits, individual shall mean an individual or
any operating entity comprised of more than one individual.
(d) A Special Allotment Timber Harvest Permit may be issued to an Indian having sole beneficial interest in an allotment to harvest and sell designated forest products from his or her allotment. The special permit shall include provision for payment by the Indian of forest management deductions pursuant to § 163.25 of this part. Unless waived by the Secretary, the permit shall also require the Indian to make a bond deposit with the Secretary as required by § 163.21. Such bonds will be returned to the Indian upon satisfactory completion of the permit or will be used by the Secretary in his or her discretion for planting or other work to offset damage to the land or the timber caused by failure to comply with the provisions of the permit. As a condition to granting a special permit under authority of this paragraph, the Indian shall be required to provide evidence acceptable to the Secretary that he or she has arranged a bona fide sale of the forest products, on terms that will protect the Indian's interests.
§ 163.27
Free-use harvesting without permits.
With the consent of the beneficial Indian owners and the Secretary, Indians may harvest designated types of forest products from Indian forest land without a permit or contract, and without charge. Forest products harvested under this authority shall be for the Indian's personal use, and shall not be sold or exchanged for other goods or services.
§ 163.28
Fire management measures.
(a) The Secretary is authorized to maintain facilities and staff, hire temporary labor, rent fire fighting equipment, purchase tools and supplies, and pay for their transportation as needed, to maintain an adequate level of readiness to meet normal wildfire protection needs and extinguish forest or range fires on Indian land. No expenses for fighting a fire outside Indian lands may be incurred unless the fire threatens Indian land or unless the expenses are incurred pursuant to an approved cooperative agreement with another protection agency. The rates of pay for fire fighters and for equipment rental shall be the rates for fire fighting services that are currently in use by public and private wildfire protection agencies adjacent to Indian reservations on which a fire occurs, unless there are in effect at the time different rates that have been approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may also enter into reciprocal agreements with any fire organization maintaining protection facilities in the vicinity of Indian reservations or other Indian land for mutual aid in wildfire protection. This section does not apply to the rendering of emergency aid, or agreements for mutual aid in fire protection pursuant to the Act of May 27, 1955 (69 Stat. 66).
(b) The Secretary is authorized to conduct a wildfire prevention program to reduce the number of person-caused fires and prevent damage to natural resources on Indian land.
(c) The Secretary is authorized to expend funds for emergency rehabilitation measures needed to stabilize soil and watershed on Indian land damaged by wildfire.
(d) Upon consultation with the beneficial Indian owners, the Secretary may use fire as a management tool on Indian land to achieve land and/or resource management objectives.
§ 163.29
Trespass.
(a) Trespassers will be liable for civil penalties and damages to the enforcement agency and the beneficial Indian owners, and will be subject to prosecution for acts of trespass.
(1)
Cases in Tribal Court.
For trespass actions brought in tribal court pursuant to these regulations, the measure of damages, civil penalties, remedies and procedures will be as set forth in this § 163.29 of this part. All other aspects of a tribal trespass prosecution brought under these regulations will be that prescribed by the law of the tribe in whose reservation or within whose jurisdiction the trespass was committed, unless otherwise prescribed under federal law. Absent applicable tribal or federal law, the measure of damages shall be that prescribed by the law of the state in which the trespass was committed.
(2)
Cases in Federal Court.
For trespass actions brought in Federal court
pursuant to these regulations, the measure of damages, civil penalties, remedies and procedures will be as set forth in this § 163.29. In the absence of applicable federal law, the measure shall be that prescribed by the law of the tribe in whose reservation or within whose jurisdiction the trespass was committed, or in the absence of tribal law, the law of the state in which it was committed.
(3) Civil penalties for trespass include, but are not limited to:
(i) Treble damages, whenever any person, without lawful authority injures, severs, or carries off from a reservation any forest product as defined in § 163.1 of this part. Proof of Indian ownership of the premises and commission of the acts by the trespasser are prima facie evidence sufficient to support liability for treble damages, with no requirement to show willfulness or intent. Treble damages shall be based upon the highest stumpage value obtainable from the raw materials involved in the trespass.
(ii) Payment of costs associated with damage to Indian forest land includes, but is not limited to, rehabilitation, reforestation, lost future revenue and lost profits, loss of productivity, and damage to other forest resources.
(iii) Payment of all reasonable costs associated with the enforcement of these trespass regulations beginning with detection and including all processes through the prosecution and collection of damages, including but not limited to field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and reports, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs, and attorney fees.
(iv) Interest calculated at the statutory rate prescribed by the law of the tribe in whose reservation or within whose jurisdiction the trespass was committed, or in the absence of tribal law in the amount prescribed by federal law. Where tribal law or federal law does not supply a statutory interest rate, the rate of interest shall be statutory rate upon judgments as prescribed by the law of the state in which the trespass was committed. Interest shall be based on treble the highest stumpage value obtainable from the raw materials involved in the trespass, and calculated from the date of the trespass until payment is rendered.
(b) Any cash or other proceeds realized from forfeiture of equipment or other goods or from forest products damaged or taken in the trespass shall be applied to satisfy civil penalties and other damages identified under § 163.29(a) of this part. After disposition of real and personal property to pay civil penalties and damages resulting from trespass, any residual funds shall be returned to the trespasser. In the event that collection and forfeiture actions taken against the trespasser result in less than full recovery, civil penalties shall be distributed as follows:
(1) Collection of damages up to the highest stumpage value of the trespass products shall be distributed pro rata between the Indian beneficial owners and any costs and expenses needed to restore the trespass land; or
(2) Collections exceeding the highest stumpage value of the trespass product, but less than full recovery, shall be proportionally distributed pro rata between the Indian beneficial owners, the law enforcement agency, and the cost to restore the trespass land. Forest management deductions shall not be withheld where less than the highest stumpage value of the unprocessed forest products taken in trespass has been recovered.
(c) Indian beneficial owners who trespass, or who are involved in trespass upon their own land, or undivided land in which such owners have a partial interest, shall not receive their beneficial share of any civil penalties and damages collected in consequence of the trespass. Any civil penalties and damages defaulted in consequence of this provision instead shall be distributed first toward restoration of the land subject of the trespass and second toward costs of the enforcement agency in consequence of the trespass, with any remainder to the forest management deduction account of the reservation in which the trespass took place.
(d) Civil penalties and other damages collected under these regulations, except for penalties and damages provided for in §§ 163.29(a)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this part, shall be treated as proceeds from the sale of forest products from
the Indian forest land upon which the trespass occurred.
(e) When a federal official or authorized tribal representative pursuant to § 163.29(j) of this part has reason to believe that Indian forest products are involved in trespass, such individual may seize and take possession of the forest products involved in the trespass if the products are located on reservation. When forest products are seized, the person seizing the products must at the time of the seizure issue a Notice of Seizure to the possessor or claimant of the forest products. The Notice of Seizure shall indicate the date of the seizure, a description of the forest products seized, the estimated value of forest products seized, an indication of whether the forest products are perishable, and the name and authority of the person seizing the forest products. Where the official initiates seizure under these regulations only, the Notice of Seizure shall further include the statement that any challenge or objection to the seizure shall be exclusively through administrative appeal pursuant to part 2 of title 25, and shall provide the name and the address of the official with whom the appeal may be filed. Alternately, an official may exercise concurrent tribal seizure authority under these regulations using applicable tribal law. In such case, the Notice of Seizure shall identify the tribal law under which the seizure may be challenged, if any. A copy of a Notice of Seizure shall be given to the possessor or claimant at the time of the seizure. If the claimant or possessor is unknown or unavailable, Notice of Seizure shall be posted on the trespass property, and a copy of the Notice shall be kept with any incident report generated by the official seizing the forest products. If the property seized is perishable and will lose substantial value if not sold or otherwise disposed of, the representative of the Secretary, or authorized tribal representative where deferral has been requested, may cause the forest products to be sold. Such sale action shall not be stayed by the filing of an administrative appeal nor by a challenge of the seizure action through a tribal forum. All proceeds from the sale of the forest products shall be placed into an escrow account and held until adjudication or other resolution of the underlying trespass. If it is found that the forest products seized were involved in a trespass, the proceeds shall be applied to the amount of civil penalties and damages awarded. If it is found that a trespass has not occurred or the proceeds are in excess of the amount of the judgment awarded, the proceeds or excess proceeds shall be returned to the possessor or claimant.
(f) When there is reason to believe that Indian forest products are involved in trespass and that such products have been removed to land not under federal or tribal government supervision, the federal official or authorized tribal representative pursuant to § 163.29(k) of this part responsible for the trespass shall immediately provide the following notice to the owner of the land or the party in possession of the trespass products:
(1) That such products could be Indian trust property involved in a trespass; and
(2) That removal or disposition of the forest products may result in criminal and/or civil action by the United States or tribe.
(g) A representative of the Secretary or authorized tribal representative pursuant to § 163.29(j) of this part will promptly determine if a trespass has occurred. The appropriate representative will issue an official Notice of Trespass to the alleged trespasser and, if necessary, the possessor or potential buyer of any trespass products. The Notice is intended to inform the trespasser, buyer, or the processor:
(1) That a determination has been made that a trespass has occurred;
(2) The basis for the determination;
(3) An assessment of the damages, penalties and costs;
(4) Of the seizure of forest products, if applicable; and
(5) That disposition or removal of Indian forest products taken in the trespass may result in civil and/or criminal action by the United States or the tribe.
(h) The Secretary may accept payment of damages in the settlement of civil trespass cases. In the absence of a court order, the Secretary will determine the procedure and approve acceptance of any settlements negotiated
by a tribe exercising its concurrent jurisdiction pursuant to § 163.29(j) of this part.
(i) The Secretary may delegate by written agreement or contract, responsibility for detection and investigation of forest trespass.
(j) Indian tribes that adopt the regulations set forth in this section, conformed as necessary to tribal law, shall have concurrent civil jurisdiction to enforce 25 U.S.C. 3106 and this section against any person.
(1) The Secretary shall acknowledge said concurrent civil jurisdiction over trespass, upon:
(i) Receipt of a formal tribal resolution documenting the tribe's adoption of this section; and
(ii) Notification of the ability of the tribal court system to properly adjudicate forest trespass cases, including a statement that the tribal court will enforce the Indian Civil Rights Act or a tribal civil rights law that contains provisions for due process and equal protection that are similar to or stronger than those contained in the Indian Civil Rights Act.
(2) Where an Indian tribe has acquired concurrent civil jurisdiction over trespass cases as set forth in § 163.29(j)(1) of this part, the Secretary and tribe's authorized representatives will be jointly responsible to coordinate prosecution of trespass actions. The Secretary shall, upon timely request of the tribe, defer prosecution of forest trespasses to the tribe. Where said deferral is not requested, the designated Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry trespass official shall coordinate with the authorized forest trespass official of each tribe the exercise of concurrent tribal and Federal trespass jurisdiction as to each trespass. Such officials shall review each case, determine in which forums to recommend bringing an action, and promptly provide their recommendation to the Federal officials responsible for initiating and prosecuting forest trespass cases. Where an Indian tribe has acquired concurrent civil jurisdiction, but does not request deferral of prosecution, the federal officials responsible for initiating and prosecuting such cases may file and prosecute the action in the tribal court or forum.
(3) The Secretary may rescind an Indian tribe's concurrent civil jurisdiction over trespass cases under this regulation if the Secretary or a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the tribal court has not adhered to the due process or equal protection requirements of the Indian Civil Rights Act. If it is determined that said rescission is justified, the Secretary shall provide written Notice of the rescission, including the findings justifying the rescission and the steps needed to remedy the violations causing the rescission, to the chief judge of the tribal judiciary or other authorized tribal official should there be no chief judge. If said steps are not taken within 60 days, the Secretary's rescission of concurrent civil jurisdiction shall become final. The affected tribe(s) may appeal a Notice of Rescission under part 2 of title 25.
(4) Nothing shall be construed to prohibit or in any way diminish the authority of a tribe to prosecute individuals under its criminal or civil trespass laws where it has jurisdiction over those individuals.
§ 163.30
Revocable road use and construction permits for removal of commercial forest products.
(a) In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 415 as amended, the Secretary may request tribes and/or other beneficial owners to sign revocable permits designating the Secretary as agent for the landowner and empowering him or her to issue revocable road use and construction permits to users for the purpose of removing forest products.
(b) When a majority of trust interest in a tract has consented, the Secretary may issue revocable road use and con- struction permits for removal of forest products over and across such land. In addition, the Secretary may act for individual owners when:
(1) One or more of the individual owner(s) of the land or of an interest therein is a minor or a person non compos mentis, and the Secretary finds that such grant, in total or for an interest therein, will cause no substantial injury to the land or the owner, which cannot be adequately compensated for by monetary damages;
(2) The whereabouts of the owner(s) of the land or those with an interest therein are unknown so long as the majority of owner(s) of interests whose whereabouts are known, consent to the grant;
(3) The heirs or devisees of a deceased owner of the land or interest have not been determined, and the Secretary finds the grant will cause no substantial injury to the land or any land owner; or
(4) The owners of interests in the land are so numerous that the Secretary finds it would be impractical to obtain the consent of the majority and finds that such grant in total or an interest therein will cause no substantial injury to the land or the owner(s), that cannot be adequately compensated for by monetary damages.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude acquisition of rights-of-way over Indian lands, under 25 CFR part 169, or conflict with provisions of that part.
§ 163.31
Insect and disease control.
(a) The Secretary is authorized to protect and preserve Indian forest land from disease or insects (Sept. 20, 1922, Ch. 349, 42 Stat. 857). The Secretary shall consult with the authorized tribal representatives and beneficial owners of Indian forest land concerning control actions.
(b) The Secretary is responsible for controlling and mitigating harmful effects of insects and diseases on Indian forest land and will coordinate control actions with the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 92 Stat. 365, 16 U.S.C. 2101.
§ 163.32
Forest development.
Forest development pertains to forest land management activities undertaken to improve the sustainable productivity of commercial Indian forest land. The program shall consist of reforestation, timber stand improvement projects, and related investments to enhance productivity of commercial forest land with emphasis on accomplishing on-the-ground projects. Forest development funds will be used to re-establish, maintain, and/or improve growth of commercial timber species and control stocking levels on commercial forest land. Forest development activities will be planned and executed using benefit-cost analyses as one of the determinants in establishing priorities for project funding.
§ 163.33
Administrative appeals.
Any challenge to action under 25 CFR part 163 taken by an approving officer or subordinate official exercising delegated authority from the Secretary shall be exclusively through administrative appeal or as provided in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended). Such appeal(s) shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of 25 CFR part 2, Appeals from administrative actions, except that an appeal of any action under part 163 of this title shall:
(a) Not stay any action unless otherwise directed by the Secretary; and
(b) Define “interested party” for purposes of bringing such an appeal or participating in such an appeal as any person whose own direct economic interest is adversely affected by an action or decision.
§ 163.34
Environmental compliance.
Actions taken by the Secretary under the regulations in this part must comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, applicable Council on Environmental Quality Regulations, and tribal laws and regulations.
§ 163.35
Indian forest land assistance account.
(a) At the request of a tribe's authorized representatives, the Secretary may establish tribal-specific forest land assistance accounts within the trust fund system.
(b) Deposits shall be credited either to forest transportation or to general forest land management accounts.
(c) Deposits into the accounts may include:
(1) Funds from non-federal sources related to activities on or for the Indian forest land of such tribe's reservation;
(2) Donations or contributions;
(3) Unobligated forestry appropriations for the tribe;
(4) User fees; and
(5) Funds transferred under Federal interagency agreements if otherwise authorized by law.
(d) For purposes of § 163.35(c)(3) of this part; unobligated forestry appropriations shall consist of balances that remain unobligated at the end of the fiscal year(s) for which funds are appropriated for the benefit of an Indian tribe.
(e) Funds in the Indian forest land assistance account plus any interest or other income earned shall remain available until expended and shall not be available to otherwise offset Federal appropriations for the management of Indian forest land.
(f) Funds in the forest land assistance account shall be used only for forest land management activities on the reservation for which the account is established.
(g) Funds in a tribe's forest land assistance account shall be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the tribe and the Secretary.
(h) The Secretary may, where circumstances warrant, at the request of the tribe, or upon the Secretary's own volition, conduct audits of the forest land assistance accounts and shall provide the audit results of to the tribe(s).
§ 163.36
Tribal forestry program financial support.
(a) The Secretary shall maintain a program to provide financial support to qualifying tribal forestry programs. A qualifying tribal forestry program is an organization or entity established by a tribe for purposes of carrying out forest land management activities. Such financial support shall be made available through the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended).
(b) The authorized tribal representatives of any category 1, 2, or 3 reservation (as defined under § 163.36(b)(1)-(3)) with an established tribal forestry program or with an intent to establish such a program for the purpose of carrying out forest land management activities may apply and qualify for tribal forestry program financial support. Reservation categories, as determined by the Secretary, are defined as:
(1) Category 1 includes major forested reservations comprised of more than 10,000 acres of trust or restricted commercial timberland or having more than a one million board foot harvest of forest products annually.
(2) Category 2 includes minor forested reservations comprised of less than 10,000 acres of trust or restricted commercial timberland and having less than a one million board foot harvest of forest products annually, or whose forest resource is determined by the Secretary to be of significant commercial timber value.
(3) Category 3 includes significant woodland reservations comprised of an identifiable trust or restricted forest area of any size which is lacking a timberland component, and whose forest resource is determined by the Secretary to be of significant commercial woodland value.
(c) A group of tribes that has either established or intends to establish a cooperative tribal forestry program to provide forest land management services to their reservations may apply and qualify for tribal forestry program financial support. For purposes of financial support under this provision, the cooperative tribal forestry program and the commercial forest acreage and annual allowable cut which it represents may be considered as a single reservation.
(d) Before the beginning of each Federal fiscal year, tribes applying to qualify for forestry program financial support shall submit application packages to the Secretary which:
(1) Document that a tribal forestry program exists or that there is an intent to establish such a program;
(2) Describe forest land management activities and the time line for implementing such activities which would result from receiving tribal forestry program financial support; and
(3) Document commitment to sustained yield management.
(e) Tribal forestry program financial support shall provide professional and technical services to carry out forest land management activities and shall be based on levels of funding assistance as follows:
(1) Level one funding assistance shall be equivalent to a Federal Employee
General Pay Schedule GS 9 step 5 position salary plus an additional 40 percent of the annual salary for such a position to pay for fringe benefits and support costs;
(2) Level two funding assistance shall be equivalent to an additional Federal Employee General Pay Schedule GS 9 step 5 position salary plus an additional 40 percent of the annual salary for such a position to pay for fringe benefits and support costs; and
(3) Level three funding assistance shall be based on equal distribution of remaining funds among qualifying applicants.
(f) Determination of qualification for level of funding assistance shall be as follows:
(1) A funding level qualification value shall be determined for each eligible applicant using the formula below. Such formula shall only be used to determine which applicants qualify for level one funding assistance. Acreage and allowable cut data used in the formula shall be as maintained by the Secretary. Eligible applicants with a funding level qualification value of one (1) or greater shall qualify for level one assistance.

# Funding Level Qualification Formula
ER05OC95.000
where:
CA = applicant's total commercial Indian forest land acres;
Tot. CA = national total commercial Indian forest land acres;
AAC = applicant's total allowable annual cut from commercial Indian forest land acres; and
Tot. AAC = national total allowable annual cut from commercial Indian forest land acres.
(2) All category 1 or 2 reservations that are eligible applicants under § 163.36(d) of this part are qualified and eligible for level two assistance.
(3) All category 1, 2 or 3 reservations that are eligible applicants under § 163.36(d) of this part are qualified and eligible for level three assistance.
(g) Tribal forestry program financial support funds shall be distributed based on the following:
(1) All requests from reservations qualifying for level one funding assistance must be satisfied before funds are made available for level two funding assistance;
(2) All requests from reservations qualifying for level two funding assistance must be satisfied before funds are made available for level three funding assistance; and
(3) If available funding is not adequate to satisfy all requests at a particular level of funding, funds will be evenly divided among tribes qualifying at that level.
§ 163.37
Forest management research.
The Secretary, with the consent of the authorized Indian representatives' is authorized to perform forestry research activities to improve the basis for determining appropriate land management activities to apply to Indian forest land.

# Subpart C—Forestry Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment and Training
§ 163.40
Indian and Alaska Native forestry education assistance.
(a)
Establishment and evaluation of the forestry education assistance programs.
(1) The Secretary shall establish within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry an education committee to coordinate and implement the forestry education assistance programs and to select participants for all the forestry education assistance programs with the exception of the cooperative education program. This committee will be, at a minimum, comprised of a professional educator, a personnel specialist, an Indian or Alaska Native who is not employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and a professional forester from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(2) The Secretary, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, shall monitor and evaluate the forestry education assistance programs to ensure that there are adequate Indian and Alaska Native foresters and forestry-related professionals to manage the Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry programs and forestry programs maintained by or for tribes and ANCSA Corporations. Such monitoring and
evaluating shall identify the number of participants in the intern, cooperative education, scholarship, and outreach programs; the number of participants who completed the requirements to become a professional forester or forestry-related professional; and the number of participants completing advanced degree requirements.
(b)
Forester intern program.
(1) The purpose of the forester intern program is to ensure the future participation of trained, professional Indians and Alaska Natives in the management of Indian and Alaska Native forest land. In keeping with this purpose, the Bureau of Indian Affairs in concert with tribes and Alaska Natives will work:
(i) To obtain the maximum degree of participation from Indians and Alaska Natives in the forester intern program;
(ii) To encourage forester interns to complete an undergraduate degree program in a forestry or forestry-related field which could include courses on indigenous culture; and
(iii) To create an opportunity for the advancement of forestry and forestry-related technicians to professional resource management positions with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation.
(2) The Secretary, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, subject to the availability of personnel resource levels established in agency budgets, shall establish and maintain in the Bureau of Indian Affairs at least 20 positions for the forester intern program. All Indians and Alaska Natives who satisfy the qualification criteria in § 163.40(b)(3) of this part may compete for such positions.
(3) To be considered for selection, applicants for forester intern positions must meet the following criteria:
(i) Be eligible for Indian preference as defined in 25 CFR part 5, subchapter A;
(ii) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(iii) Be able to successfully complete the intern program within a three year maximum time period; and
(iv) Possess a letter of acceptance to an accredited post-secondary school or demonstrate that such a letter of acceptance will be acquired within 90 days.
(4) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall advertise vacancies for forester intern positions semiannually, no later than the first day of April and October, to accommodate entry into school.
(5) Selection of forester interns will be based on the following guidelines:
(i) Selection will be on a competitive basis selecting applicants who have the greatest potential for success in the program;
(ii) Selection will take into consideration the amount of time which will be required for individual applicants to complete the intern program;
(iii) Priority in selection will be given to candidates currently employed with and recommended for participation by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, a tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation; and
(iv) Selection of individuals to the program awaiting the letter of acceptance required by § 163.40(b)(3)(iv) of this part may be canceled if such letter of acceptance is not secured and provided to the education committee in a timely manner.
(6) Forester interns shall comply with each of the following program requirements:
(i) Maintain full-time status in a forestry related curriculum at an accredited post-secondary school having an agreement which assures the transferability of a minimum of 55 semester hours from the post-secondary institution which meet the program requirements for a forestry related program at a bachelor degree granting institution accredited by the American Association of Universities;
(ii) Maintain good academic standing;
(iii) Enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester or forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the recommending tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for two years for each year in the program; and
(iv) Report for service with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation during any break in attendance at school of more than three weeks duration. Time spent in such service shall
be counted toward satisfaction of the intern's obligated service.
(7) The education committee established pursuant to § 163.40(a)(1) of this part will evaluate annually the performance of forester intern program participants against requirements enumerated in § 163.40(b)(6) of this part to ensure that they are satisfactorily progressing toward completing program requirements.
(8) The Secretary shall pay all costs for tuition, books, fees and living expenses incurred by a forester intern while attending an accredited post-secondary school.
(c)
Cooperative education program.
(1) The purpose of the cooperative education program is to recruit and develop promising Indian and Alaska Native students who are enrolled in secondary schools, tribal or Alaska Native community colleges, and other post-secondary schools for employment as professional foresters and other forestry-related professionals by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation.
(2) The program shall be operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR 213.3202(a) and 213.3202(b).
(3) To be considered for selection, applicants for the cooperative education program must meet the following criteria:
(i) Meet eligibility requirements stipulated in 5 CFR 213.3202;
(ii) Be accepted into or enrolled in a course of study at a high school offering college preparatory course work, an accredited institution which grants bachelor degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums or a post-secondary education institution which has an agreement with a college or university which grants bachelor degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums. The agreement must assure the transferability of a minimum of 55 semester hours from the post-secondary institution which meet the program requirements for a forestry related program at the bachelor degree-granting institution.
(4) Cooperative education steering committees established at the field level shall select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in § 163.40(c)(3) of this part without regard to applicants' financial needs.
(5) A recipient of assistance under the cooperative education program shall be required to enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester or forestry- related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a recommending tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for one year in return for each year in the program.
(6) The Secretary shall pay all costs of tuition, books, fees, and transportation to and from the job site to school, for an Indian or Alaska Native student who is selected for participation in the cooperative education program.
(d)
Scholarship program.
(1) The Secretary is authorized, within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, to establish and grant forestry scholarships to Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled in accredited programs for post-secondary and graduate forestry and forestry-related programs of study as full-time students.
(2) The education committee established pursuant to this part in § 163.40(a)(1) shall select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in §§ 163.40(d)(5), 163.40(d)(6) and 163.40(d)(7) without regard to applicants' financial needs or past scholastic achievements.
(3) Recipients of scholarships must reapply annually to continue funding beyond the initial award period. Students who have been recipients of scholarships in past years, who are in good academic standing and have been recommended for continuation by their academic institution will be given priority over new applicants for selection for scholarship assistance.
(4) The amount of scholarship funds an individual is awarded each year will be contingent upon the availability of funds appropriated each fiscal year and, therefore, may be subject to yearly changes.
(5) Preparatory scholarships are available for a maximum of two and one half academic years of general, undergraduate course work leading to a
degree in forestry or forestry-related curriculums and may be awarded to individuals who meet the following criteria:
(i) Must possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and
(ii) Be enrolled and in good academic standing or accepted for enrollment at an accredited post-secondary school which grants degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums or be in a post-secondary institution which has an agreement with a college or university which grants bachelor degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums. The agreement must assure the transferability of a minimum of 55 semester hours from the post-secondary institution which meet the program requirements for a forestry-related curriculum at the bachelor degree granting institution.
(6) Pregraduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years and may be awarded to individuals who meet the following criteria:
(i) Have completed a minimum of 55 semester hours towards a bachelor degree in a forestry or forestry-related curriculum; and
(ii) Be accepted into a forestry or forestry-related bachelor degree-granting program at an accredited college or university.
(7) Graduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years for individuals selected into the graduate program of an accredited college or university that grants advanced degrees in forestry or forestry-related fields.
(8) A recipient of assistance under the scholarship program shall be required to enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester or forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for one year for each year in the program.
(9) The Secretary shall pay all scholarships approved by the education committee established pursuant to this part in § 163.40(a)(1), for which funding is available.
(e)
Forestry education outreach.
(1) The Secretary shall establish and maintain a forestry education outreach program within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry for Indian and Alaska Native youth which will:
(i) Encourage students to acquire academic skills needed to succeed in post-secondary mathematics and science courses;
(ii) Promote forestry career awareness that could include modern technologies as well as native indigenous forestry technologies;
(iii) Involve students in projects and activities oriented to forestry related professions early so students realize the need to complete required precollege courses; and
(iv) Integrate Indian and Alaska Native forestry program activities into the education of Indian and Alaska Native students.
(2) The program shall be developed and carried out in consultation with appropriate community education organizations, tribes, ANCSA Corporations, and Alaska Native organizations.
(3) The program shall be coordinated and implemented nationally by the education committee established pursuant to § 163.40(a)(1) of this part.
(f)
Postgraduate studies.
(1) The purpose of the postgraduate studies program is to enhance the professional and technical knowledge of Indian and Alaska Native foresters and forestry-related professionals working for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporations so that the best possible service is provided to Indian and Alaska Native publics.
(2) The Secretary is authorized to pay the cost of tuition, fees, books and salary of Alaska Natives and Indians who are employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation who have previously received diplomas or degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums and who wish to pursue advanced levels of education in forestry or forestry-related fields.
(3) Requirements of the postgraduate study program are:
(i) The goal of the advanced study program is to encourage participants to obtain additional academic credentials such as a degree or diploma in a forestry or forestry-related field;
(ii) The duration of course work cannot be less than one semester or more than three years; and
(iii) Students in the postgraduate studies program must meet performance standards as required by the graduate school offering the study program during their course of study.
(4) Program applicants will submit application packages to the education committee established by § 163.40(a)(1). At a minimum, such packages shall contain a complete SF 171 and an endorsement, signed by the applicant's supervisor clearly stating the needs and benefits of the desired training.
(5) The education committee established pursuant to § 163.40(a)(1) shall select program participants based on the following criteria:
(i) Need for the expertise sought at both the local and national levels;
(ii) Expected benefits, both to the location and nationally; and
(iii) Years of experience and the service record of the employee.
(6) Program participants will enter into an obligated service agreement in accordance with § 163.42(a), to serve as a professional forester or forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for two years for each year in the program. However, the obligated service requirement may be reduced by the Secretary if the employee receives supplemental funding such as research grants, scholarships or graduate stipends and, as a result, reduces the need for financial assistance. If the obligated service agreement is breached, the Secretary is authorized to pursue collection in accordance with § 163.42(b) of this part.
§ 163.41
Postgraduation recruitment, continuing education and training programs.
(a)
Postgraduation recruitment program.
(1) The purpose of the postgraduation recruitment program is to recruit Indian and Alaska Native graduate foresters and trained forestry technicians into the Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry program or forestry programs conducted by a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation.
(2) The Secretary is authorized to assume outstanding student loans from established lending institutions of Indian and Alaska Native foresters and forestry technicians who have successfully completed a post-secondary forestry or forestry- related curriculum at an accredited institution.
(3) Indian and Alaska Natives receiving benefits under this program shall enter into an obligated service agreement in accordance with § 163.42(a) of this part. Obligated service required under this program will be one year for every $5,000 of student loan debt repaid.
(4) If the obligated service agreement is breached, the Secretary is authorized to pursue collection of the student loan(s) in accordance with § 163.42(b) of this part.
(b)
Postgraduate intergovernmental internships.
(1) Forestry personnel working for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation may apply to the Secretary and be granted an internship within forestry-related programs of agencies of the Department of the Interior.
(2) Foresters or forestry-related personnel from other Department of the Interior agencies may apply through proper channels for internships within Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry programs and, with the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, within tribal or Alaska Native forestry programs.
(3) Forestry personnel from agencies not within the Department of the Interior may apply, through proper agency channels and pursuant to an interagency agreement, for an internship within the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, with the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, within a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation.
(4) Forestry personnel from a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation may apply, through proper channels and pursuant to a cooperative agreement, for an internship within another tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation forestry program.
(5) The employing agency of participating Federal employees will provide for the continuation of salary and benefits.
(6) The host agency for participating tribal, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation forestry employees will provide for salaries and benefits.
(7) A bonus pay incentive, up to 25 percent of the intern's base salary, may be provided to intergovernmental interns at the conclusion of the internship period. Bonus pay incentives will be at the discretion of and funded by the host organization and will be conditioned upon the host agency's documentation of the intern's superior performance, in accordance with the agency's performance standards, during the internship period.
(c)
Continuing education and training.
(1) The purpose of continuing education and training is to establish a program to provide for the ongoing education and training of forestry personnel employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation. This program will emphasize continuing education and training in three areas:
(i) Orientation training, including tribal-Federal relations and responsibilities;
(ii) Technical forestry education; and
(iii) Developmental training in forest land-based enterprises and marketing.
(2) The Secretary shall implement within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, an orientation program designed to increase awareness and understanding of Indian culture and its effect on forest management practices and on Federal laws that affect forest management operations and administration in the Indian forestry program.
(3) The Secretary shall implement within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, a continuing technical forestry education program to assist foresters and forestry-related professionals to perform forest management on Indian forest land.
(4) The Secretary shall implement, within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, a forest land-based forest enterprise and marketing training program to assist with the development and use of Indian and Alaska Native forest resources.
§ 163.42
Obligated service and breach of contract.
(a)
Obligated service.
(1) Individuals completing forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement may be offered full time permanent employment with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation to fulfill their obligated service within 90 days of the date all program education requirements have been completed. If such employment is not offered within the 90-day period, the student shall be relieved of obligated service requirements. Not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of employment, the employer shall notify the participant of the work assignment, its location and the date work must begin. If the employer is other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the employer shall notify the Secretary of the offer for employment.
(2) Qualifying employment time eligible to be credited to fulfilling the obligated service requirement will begin the day after all program education requirements have been completed, with the exception of the forester intern program, which includes the special provisions outlined in § 163.40(b)(6)(iv). The minimum service obligation period shall be one year of full-time employment.
(3) The Secretary or other qualifying employer reserves the right to designate the location of employment for fulfilling the service obligation.
(4) A participant in any of the forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement who receives a degree may, within 30 days of the degree completion date, request a deferment of obligated service to pursue postgraduate or postdoctoral studies. In such cases, the Secretary shall issue a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for deferral. The Secretary may grant such a request, however, deferments granted in no way waive or otherwise affect obligated service requirements.
(5) A participant in any of the forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement may, within 30 days of the date all program education requirements have been completed, request a waiver of obligated
service based on personal or family hardship. The Secretary may grant a full or partial waiver or deny the request for waiver. In such cases, the Secretary shall issue a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for waiver.
(b)
Breach of contract.
Any individual who has participated in and accepted financial support under forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement and who does not accept employment or unreasonably terminates such employment by their own volition will be required to repay financial assistance as follows:
(1)
Forester intern program
—Amount plus interest equal to the sum of all salary, tuition, books, and fees that the forester intern received while occupying the intern position. The amount of salary paid to the individual during breaks in attendance from school, when the individual was employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise, or ANCSA Corporation, shall not be included in this total.
(2)
Cooperative education program
—Amount plus interest equal to the sum of all tuition, books, and fees that the individual received under the cooperative education program.
(3)
Scholarship program
—Amount plus interest equal to scholarship(s) provided to the individual under the scholarship program.
(4)
Postgraduation recruitment program
—Amount plus interest equal to the sum of all the individual's student loans assumed by the Secretary under the postgraduation recruitment program.
(5)
Postgraduate studies program
—Amount plus interest equal to the sum of all salary, tuition, books, and fees that the individual received while in the postgraduate studies program. The amount of salary paid to that individual during breaks in attendance from school, when the individual was employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, a tribal enterprise, or ANCSA Corporation, shall not be included in this total.
(c)
Adjustment of repayment for obligated service performed.
Under forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement, the amount required for repayment will be adjusted by crediting time of obligated service performed prior to breach of contract toward the final amount of debt.

# Subpart D—Alaska Native Technical Assistance Program
§ 163.60
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Secretary shall provide a technical assistance program to ANCSA corporations to promote sustained yield management of their forest resources and, where practical and consistent with the economic objectives of the ANCSA Corporations, promote local processing and other value-added activities. For the purpose of this subpart, technical assistance means specialized professional and technical help, advice or assistance in planning, and providing guidance, training and review for programs and projects associated with the management of, or impact upon, Indian forest land, ANCSA corporation forest land, and their related resources. Such technical assistance shall be made available through contracts, grants or agreements entered into in accordance with the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended).
(b) Nothing in this part shall be construed as: Affecting, modifying or increasing the responsibility of the United States toward ANCSA corporation forest land, or affecting or otherwise modifying the Federal trust responsibility towards Indian forest land; or requiring or otherwise mandating an ANCSA corporation to apply for a contract, grant, or agreement for technical assistance with the Secretary. Such applications are strictly voluntary.
§ 163.61
Evaluation committee.
(a) The Secretary shall establish an evaluation committee to assess and rate technical assistance project proposals. This committee will include, at a minimum, local Bureau of Indian Affairs and Alaska Native representatives with expertise in contracting and forestry.
§ 163.62
Annual funding needs assessment and rating.
(a) Each year, the Secretary will request a technical assistance project needs assessment from ANCSA corporations. The needs assessments will provide information on proposed project goals and estimated costs and benefits and will be rated by the evaluation committee established pursuant to § 163.61 for the purpose of making funding recommendations to the Secretary. To the extent practicable, such recommendations shall achieve an equitable funding distribution between large and small ANCSA corporations and shall give priority for continuation of previously approved multi-year projects.
(b) Based on the recommendations of the evaluation committee, the Secretary shall fund such projects, to the extent available appropriations permit.
§ 163.63
Contract, grant, or agreement application and award process.
(a) At such time that the budget for ANCSA corporation technical assistance projects is known, the Secretary shall advise the ANCSA corporations on which projects were selected for funding and on the deadline for submission of complete and detailed contract, grant or agreement packages.
(b) Upon the request of an ANCSA corporation and to the extent that funds and personnel are available, the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall provide technical assistance to ANCSA corporations to assist them with:
(1) Preparing the technical parts of the contract, grant, or agreement application; and
(2) Obtaining technical assistance from other Federal agencies.

# Subpart E—Cooperative Agreements
§ 163.70
Purpose of agreements.
(a) To facilitate administration of the programs and activities of the Department of the Interior, the Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into cooperative agreements between Indian tribes and any agency or entity within the Department. Such cooperative agreements include engaging tribes to undertake services and activities on all lands managed by Department of the Interior agencies or entities or to provide services and activities performed by these agencies or entities on Indian forest land to:
(1) Engage in cooperative manpower and job training and development programs;
(2) Develop and publish cooperative environmental education and natural resource planning materials; and
(3) Perform land and facility improvements, including forestry and other natural resources protection, fire protection, reforestation, timber stand improvement, debris removal, and other activities related to land and natural resource management.
(b) The Secretary may enter into such agreements when he or she determines the public interest will be benefited. Nothing in § 163.70(a) shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements otherwise authorized by law.
§ 163.71
Agreement funding.
In cooperative agreements, the Secretary is authorized to advance or reimburse funds to contractors from any appropriated funds available for similar kinds of work or by furnishing or sharing materials, supplies, facilities, or equipment without regard to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3324, relating to the advance of public moneys.
§ 163.72
Supervisory relationship.
In any agreement authorized by the Secretary, Indian tribes and their employees may perform cooperative work under the supervision of the Department of the Interior in emergencies or otherwise, as mutually agreed to, but shall not be deemed to be Federal employees other than for purposes of 28 U.S.C. 2671 through 2680, and 5 U.S.C. 8101 through 8193.

# Subpart F—Program Assessment
§ 163.80
Periodic assessment report.
The Secretary shall commission every ten years an independent assessment of Indian forest land and Indian forest land management practices
under the guidelines established in § 163.81 of this part.
(a) Assessments shall be conducted in the first year of each decade (e.g., 2000, 2010, etc.) and shall be completed within 24 months of their initiation date. Each assessment shall be initiated no later than November 28 of the designated year.
(b) Except as provided in § 163.83 of this part, each assessment shall be conducted by a non-Federal entity knowledgeable of forest management practices on Federal and private land. Assessments will evaluate and compare investment in and management of Indian forest land with similar Federal and private land.
(c) Completed assessment reports shall be submitted to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate and shall be made available to Indian tribes.
§ 163.81
Assessment guidelines.
Assessments shall be national in scope and shall include:
(a) An in-depth analysis of management practices on, and the level of funding by management activity for, specific Indian forest land compared with similar Federal and private forest land;
(b) A survey of the condition of Indian forest land, including health and productivity levels;
(c) An evaluation of the staffing patterns, by management activity, of forestry organizations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and of Indian tribes;
(d) An evaluation of procedures employed in forest product sales administration, including preparation, field supervision, and accountability for proceeds;
(e) An analysis of the potential for streamlining administrative procedures, rules and policies of the Bureau of Indian Affairs without diminishing the Federal trust responsibility;
(f) A comprehensive review of the intensity and utility of forest inventories and the adequacy of Indian forest land management plans, including their compatibility with other resource inventories and applicable integrated resource management plans and their ability to meet tribal needs and priorities;
(g) An evaluation of the feasibility and desirability of establishing or revising minimum standards against which the adequacy of the forestry program of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in fulfilling its trust responsibility to Indian forest land can be measured;
(h) An evaluation of the effectiveness of implementing the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended) in regard to the Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry program;
(i) A recommendation of any reforms and increased funding and other resources necessary to bring Indian forest land management programs to a state-of-the-art condition; and
(j) Specific examples and comparisons from across the United States where Indian forest land is located.
§ 163.82
Annual status report.
The Secretary shall, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year, submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives, the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate, and to the affected Indian tribes, a report on the status of Indian forest land with respect to attaining the standards, goals and objectives set forth in approved forest management plans. The report shall identify the amount of Indian forest land in need of forestation or other silvicultural treatment, and the quantity of timber available for sale, offered for sale, and sold, for each Indian tribe.
§ 163.83
Assistance from the Secretary of Agriculture.
The Secretary of the Interior may ask the Secretary of Agriculture, through the Forest Service, on a nonreimbursable basis, for technical assistance in the conduct of such research and evaluation activities as may be necessary for the completion of any reports or assessments required by § 163.80 of this part.
Pt. 166

# PART 166—GRAZING PERMITS

# Subpart A—Purpose, Scope, and Definitions
Sec.
166.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
166.2
Can the BIA waive the application of these regulations?
166.3
May decisions under this part be appealed?
166.4
What terms do I need to know?

# Subpart B—Tribal Policies and Laws Pertaining to Permits
166.100
What special tribal policies will we apply to permitting on Indian agricultural lands?
166.101
May individual Indian landowners exempt their land from certain tribal policies for permitting on Indian agricultural lands?
166.102
Do tribal laws apply to permits?
166.103
How will tribal laws be enforced on Indian agricultural land?
166.104
What notifications are required that tribal laws apply to permits on Indian agricultural lands?

# Subpart C—Permit Requirements

# General Requirements
166.200
When is a permit needed to authorize possession of Indian land for grazing purposes?
166.201
Must parents or guardians of Indian minors who own Indian land obtain a permit before using land for grazing purposes?
166.202
May an emancipated minor grant a permit?
166.203
When can the Indian landowners grant a permit?
166.204
Who may represent an individual Indian landowner in granting a permit?
166.205
When can the BIA grant a permit on behalf of Indian landowners?
166.206
What requirements apply to a permit on a fractionated tract?
166.207
What provisions will be contained in a permit?
166.208
How long is a permit term?
166.209
Must a permit be recorded?
166.210
When is a decision by the BIA regarding a permit effective?
166.211
When are permits effective?
166.212
When may a permittee take possession of permitted Indian land?
166.213
Must I comply with any standards of conduct if I am granted a permit?
166.214
Will the BIA notify the permittee of any change in land title status?

# Obtaining a Permit
166.215
How can I find Indian land available for grazing?
166.216
Who is responsible for permitting Indian land?
166.217
In what manner may a permit on Indian land be granted?
166.218
How do I acquire a permit through tribal allocation?
166.219
How do I acquire a permit through negotiation?
166.220
What are the basic steps for acquiring a permit through negotiation?
166.221
How do I acquire an advertised permit through competitive bidding?
166.222
Are there standard permit forms?

# Permit (Leasehold) Mortgage
166.223
Can I use a permit as collateral for a loan?
166.224
What factors does the BIA consider when reviewing a leasehold mortgage?
166.225
May a permittee voluntarily assign a leasehold interest under an approved encumbrance?
166.226
May the holder of a leasehold mortgage assign the leasehold interest after a sale or foreclosure of an approved encumbrance?

# Modifying a Permit
166.227
How can Indian land be removed from an existing permit?
166.228
How will the BIA provide notice if Indian land is removed from an existing permit?
166.229
Other than to remove land, how can a permit be amended, assigned, subpermitted, or mortgaged?
166.230
When will a BIA decision to approve an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage under a permit be effective?
166.231
Must an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage approved under a permit be recorded?

# Subpart D—Land and Operations Management
166.300
How is Indian agricultural land managed?
166.301
How is Indian land for grazing purposes described?
166.302
How is a range unit created?
166.303
Can more than one parcel of Indian land be combined into one permit?
166.304
Can there be more than one permit for each range unit?
166.305
When is grazing capacity determined?
166.306
Can the BIA adjust the grazing capacity?
166.307
Will the grazing capacity be increased if I graze adjacent trust or non-trust rangelands not covered by the permit?
166.308
Can the number of animals and/or season of use be modified on the permitted land if I graze adjacent trust or non-trust rangelands under an on-and-off grazing permit?
166.309
Who determines livestock class and livestock ownership requirements on permitted Indian land?
166.310
What must a permittee do to protect livestock from exposure to disease?

# Management Plans and Environmental Compliance
166.311
Is an Indian agricultural resource management plan required?
166.312
Is a conservation plan required?
166.313
Is environmental compliance required?

# Conservation Practices and Improvements
166.314
Can a permittee apply a conservation practice on permitted Indian land?
166.315
Who is responsible for the completion and maintenance of a conservation practice if the permit expires or is canceled before the completion of the conservation practice?
166.316
Can a permittee construct improvements on permitted Indian land?
166.317
What happens to improvements constructed on Indian lands when the permit has been terminated?

# Subpart E—Grazing Rental Rates, Payments, and Late Payment Collections

# Rental Rate Determination and Adjustment
166.400
Who establishes grazing rental rates?
166.401
How does the BIA establish grazing rental rates?
166.402
Why must the BIA determine the fair annual rental of Indian land?
166.403
Will the BIA ever grant or approve a permit at less than fair annual rental?
166.404
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on tribal land?
166.405
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on individually-owned Indian land?
166.406
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on government land?
166.407
If a range unit consists of tribal and individually-owned Indian lands, what is the grazing rental rate?
166.408
Is the grazing rental rate established by the BIA adjusted periodically?

# Rental Payments
166.409
How is my grazing rental payment determined?
166.410
When are grazing rental payments due?
166.411
Will a permittee be notified when a grazing rental payment is due?
166.412
What if the permittee does not receive an invoice that a grazing rental payment is due?
166.413
To whom are grazing rental payments made?
166.414
What forms of grazing rental payments are acceptable?
166.415
What will the BIA do if the permittee fails to make a direct payment to an Indian landowner?
166.416
May a permittee make a grazing rental payment in advance of the due date?
166.417
May an individual Indian landowner modify the terms of the permit on a fractionated tract for advance grazing rental payment?
166.418
When is a grazing rental payment late?

# Late Rental Payment Collections
166.419
What will the BIA do if grazing rental payments are not made in the time and manner required by the permit?
166.420
Will any special fees be assessed on delinquent grazing rental payments due under a permit?
166.421
If a permit is canceled for non-payment, does that extinguish the permittee's debt?

# Compensation to Indian Landowners
166.422
What does the BIA do with grazing rental payments received from permittees?
166.423
How do Indian landowners receive grazing rental payments that the BIA has received from permittees?
166.424
How will the BIA determine the grazing rental payment amount to be distributed to each Indian landowner?

# Subpart F—Administrative and Tribal Fees
166.500
Are there administrative fees for a permit?
166.501
How are annual administrative fees determined?
166.502
Are administrative fees refundable?
166.503
May the BIA waive administrative fees?
166.504
Are there any other administrative or tribal fees, taxes, or assessments that must be paid?

# Subpart G—Bonding and Insurance Requirements
166.600
Must a permittee provide a bond for a permit?
166.601
How is the amount of the bond determined?
166.602
What form of bonds will the BIA accept?
166.603
If cash is submitted as a bond, how is it administered?
166.604
Is interest paid on a cash performance bond?
166.605
Are cash performance bonds refunded?
166.606
What happens to a bond if a violation occurs?
166.607
Is insurance required for a permit?
166.608
What types of insurance may be required?

# Subpart H—Permit Violations
166.700
What permit violations are addressed by this subpart?
166.701
How will the BIA determine whether the activities of a permittee under a permit are in compliance with the terms of the permit?
166.702
Can a permit provide for negotiated remedies in the event of a permit violation?
166.703
What happens if a permit violation occurs?
166.704
What will a written notice of a permit violation contain?
166.705
What will the BIA do if a permit violation is not cured within the required time period?
166.706
Will the BIA's regulations concerning appeal bonds apply to cancellation decisions involving permits?
166.707
When will a cancellation of a permit be effective?
166.708
Can the BIA take emergency action if the rangeland is threatened with immediate, significant, and irreparable harm?
166.709
What will the BIA do if a permittee holds over after the expiration or cancellation of a permit?

# Subpart I—Trespass
166.800
What is trespass?
166.801
What is the BIA's trespass policy?
166.802
Who can enforce this subpart?

# Notification
166.803
How are trespassers notified of a trespass determination?
166.804
What can I do if I receive a trespass notice?
166.805
How long will a written trespass notice remain in effect?

# Actions
166.806
What actions does the BIA take against trespassers?
166.807
When will we impound unauthorized livestock or other property?
166.808
How are trespassers notified if their unauthorized livestock or other property are to be impounded?
166.809
What happens after my unauthorized livestock or other property are impounded?
166.810
How do I redeem my impounded livestock or other property?
166.811
How will the sale of impounded livestock or other property be conducted?

# Penalties, Damages, and Costs
166.812
What are the penalties, damages, and costs payable by trespassers on Indian agricultural land?
166.813
How will the BIA determine the value of forage or crops consumed or destroyed?
166.814
How will the BIA determine the value of the products or property illegally used or removed?
166.815
How will the BIA determine the amount of damages to Indian agricultural land?
166.816
How will the BIA determine the costs associated with enforcement of the trespass?
166.817
What happens if I do not pay the assessed penalties, damages and costs?
166.818
How are the proceeds from trespass distributed?
166.819
What happens if the BIA does not collect enough money to satisfy the penalty?

# Subpart J—Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
166.900
How are the Indian agriculture education programs operated?
166.901
How will the BIA select an agriculture intern?
166.902
How can I become an agriculture educational employment student?
166.903
How can I get an agriculture scholarship?
166.904
What is agriculture education outreach?
166.905
Who can get assistance for postgraduate studies?
166.906
What can happen if we recruit you after graduation?
166.907
Who can be an intern?
166.908
Who can participate in continuing education and training?
166.909
What are my obligations to the BIA after I participate in an agriculture education program?
166.910
What happens if I do not fulfill my obligation to the BIA?

# Subpart K—Records
166.1000
Who owns the records associated with this part?
166.1001
How must records associated with this part be preserved?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; R.S. 463, 25 U.S.C. 2; R.S. 465, 25 U.S.C. 9; Sec. 6, 96 Stat. 986, 25 U.S.C. 466. Interpret or apply R.S. 2078, 25 U.S.C. 68; R.S. 2117, 25 U.S.C. 179; Sec. 3, 26 Stat. 795, 25 U.S.C. 397; Sec. 1, 28 Stat. 305, 25 U.S.C. 402; Sec. 4, 36 Stat. 856, 25 U.S.C. 403; Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 128, 25 U.S.C. 394; Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 1232, 25 U.S.C. 393; Sec. 16, 17, 48 Stat. 987, 988, 25 U.S.C. 476, 477; Sec. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 69 Stat. 539, 540, 25 U.S.C. 415, 415a, 415b, 415c, 415d, 25 U.S.C. 3701, 3702, 3703, 3711, 3712, 3713, 3714, 3731, 3732, 3733, 3734, 3741, 3742, 3743, 3744, 3745, 107 Stat. 2011; 44 U.S.C. § 3101,
et seq.
)

# Source:
66 FR 7126, Jan. 22, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Scope, and Definitions
§ 166.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
(a) The purpose of this part is to describe the authorities, policies, and procedures the BIA uses to approve, grant, and administer a permit for grazing on tribal land, individually-owned Indian land, or government land.
(b) If the BIA's approval is not required for a permit, these regulations will not apply.
(c) These regulations do not apply to any tribal land which is permitted under a corporate charter issued by us pursuant to 25 U.S.C. § 477, or under a special act of Congress authorizing permits without our approval under certain conditions, except to the extent that the authorizing statutes require us to enforce such permits on behalf of the Indian landowners.
(d) To the extent that any provisions of this part conflict with Section 213 of the Indian Land Consolidation Act Amendments of 2000, the provisions of that act will govern.
(e) In approving a permit on behalf of the Indian landowners, the BIA will not permit for fee interest owners nor will we collect rent on behalf of fee interest owners. Our permitting of the trust and restricted interests of the Indian landowners will not be conditioned on a permit having been obtained from any fee interest owners. However, where all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a life estate held in fee status, we will approve a permit of the remainder interests of the Indian landowners only if such action is necessary to preserve the value of the land or protect the interests of the Indian landowners. Where a life estate and remainder interest are both owned in trust or restricted status, the life estate and remainder interest must both be permitted under these regulations, unless the permit is for less than one year in duration. Unless otherwise provided by the document creating the life estate or by agreement, rent payable under the permit must be paid to the holder of the life estate under part 179 of this title.
§ 166.2
Can the BIA waive the application of these regulations?
Yes. In any case in which these regulations conflict with the objectives of the agricultural resource management plan provided for in § 166.311 of this part, or with a tribal law, the BIA may waive the application of such regulations unless the waiver would constitute a violation of a federal statute or judicial decision or would conflict with the BIA's general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 166.3
May decisions under this part be appealed?
Yes. Except where otherwise provided in this part, appeals from decisions by the BIA under this part may be taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.
§ 166.4
What terms do I need to know?
Adult
means an individual Indian who is 18 years of age or older.
Agency
means the agency or field office or any other designated office in the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) having jurisdiction over trust or restricted property or money.
Agricultural product
means:
(1) Crops grown under cultivated conditions whether used for personal consumption, subsistence, or sold for commercial benefit;
(2) Domestic livestock, including cattle, sheep, goats, horses, buffalo, swine, reindeer, fowl, or other animals specifically raised and used for food or fiber or as a beast of burden;
(3) Forage, hay, fodder, food grains, crop residues and other items grown or harvested for the feeding and care of
livestock, sold for commercial profit, or used for other purposes; and
(4) Other marketable or traditionally used materials authorized for removal from Indian agricultural lands.
Agricultural resource management plan
means a ten-year plan developed through the public review process specifying the tribal management goals and objectives developed for tribal agricultural and grazing resources. Plans developed and approved under AIARMA will govern the management and administration of Indian agricultural resources and Indian agricultural lands by the BIA and Indian tribal governments.
AIARMA
means American Indian Agricultural Resources Management Act of December 3, 1993 (107 Stat. 2011, 25 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
), and amended on November 2, 1994 (108 Stat. 4572).
Allocation
means the apportionment of grazing privileges without competition to tribal members or tribal entities, including the tribal designation of permittees and the number and kind of livestock to be grazed.
Animal Unit Month (AUM)
means the amount of forage required to sustain one cow or one cow with one calf for one month.
Approving/approval
means the action taken by the BIA to approve a permit.
Assign/assignment
means an agreement between a permittee and an assignee, whereby the assignee acquires all of the permittee's rights, and assumes all of the permittee's obligations under a permit.
Assignee
means the person to whom the permit rights for use of Indian land are assigned.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior and any tribe acting on behalf of the BIA under this part.
Bond
means security for the performance of certain permit obligations, as furnished by the permitee, or a guaranty of such performance as furnished by a third-party surety.
Conservation plan
means a statement of management objectives for grazing, including contract stipulations defining required uses, operations, and improvements.
Conservation practice
means a management action to protect, conserve, utilize, and maintain the sustained yield productivity of Indian agricultural land.
Day
means a calendar day.
Encumbrance
means mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument which secures a debt owed by a permittee to a lender or other holder of a leasehold mortgage on the permit interest.
Emancipated minor
means a person under 18 years of age who is married or who is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be legally able to care for himself or herself.
Fair annual rental
means the amount of rental income that a permitted parcel of Indian land would most probably command in an open and competitive market.
Farmland
means Indian land, excluding Indian forest land, that is used for production of food, feed, fiber, forage, and seed, oil crops, or other agricultural products, and may be either dry land, irrigated land, or irrigated pasture.
Fee interest
means an interest in land that is owned in unrestricted fee status, and is thus freely alienable by the fee owner.
Fractionated tract
means a tract of Indian land owned in common by Indian landowners and/or fee owners holding undivided interests therein.
Government land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned by the United States and administered by the BIA, not including tribal land which has been reserved for administrative purposes.
Grant/granting
means the process of the BIA or the Indian landowner agreeing or consenting to a permit.
Grazing capacity
means the maximum sustainable number of livestock that may be grazed on a defined area and within a defined period, usually expressed in an Animal Unit Month (AUM).
Grazing rental payment
means the total of the grazing rental rate multiplied by the number of AUMs or acres in the permit.
Grazing rental rate
means the amount you must pay for an AUM or acre based on the fair annual rental.
I/You
means the person to whom these regulations directly apply.
Immediate family
means the spouse, brothers, sisters, lineal ancestors, lineal descendants, or members of the household of an individual Indian landowner.
Indian agricultural land
means Indian land, including farmland and rangeland, excluding Indian forest land, that is used for production of agricultural products, and Indian lands occupied by industries that support the agricultural community, regardless of whether a formal inspection and land classification has been conducted.
Indian land
means any tract in which any interest in the surface estate is owned by a tribe or individual Indian in trust or restricted status.
Indian landowner
means a tribe or individual Indian who owns an interest in Indian land in trust or restricted status.
Individually-owned Indian land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned by an individual Indian in trust or restricted status.
Interest
means, when used with respect to Indian land, an ownership right to the surface estate of Indian land that is unlimited or uncertain in duration, including a life estate.
Life estate
means an interest in Indian land which is limited in duration to the life of the permittor holding the interest, or the life of some other person.
Majority interest
means the ownership interest(s) that are greater than 50 percent of the trust or restricted ownership interest(s) in a tract of Indian land.
Minor
means an individual who is less than 18 years of age.
Mortgage
means a mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument which pledges a permittee's permit (leasehold) interest as security for a debt or other obligation owed by the permittee to a lender or other mortgagee.
Non compos mentis
means a person who has been legally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind or incapable of transacting or conducting business and managing one's own affairs.
On-and-off grazing permit
means a written agreement with a permittee for additional grazing capacity for other rangeland not covered by the permit.
Permit
means a written agreement between Indian landowners and a permittee, whereby the permittee is granted a revocable privilege to use Indian land or Government land, for a specified purpose.
Permittee
means an a person or entity who has acquired a legal right of possession to Indian land by a permit for grazing purposes under this part.
Range unit
means rangelands consolidated to form a unit of land for the management and administration of grazing under a permit. A range unit may consist of a combination of tribal, individually-owned Indian, and/or government land.
Rangeland
means Indian land, excluding Indian forest land, on which native vegetation is predominantly grasses, grass-like plants, half-shrubs or shrubs suitable for grazing or browsing use, and includes lands re-vegetated naturally or artificially to provide a forage cover that is managed as native vegetation.
Restricted land or restricted status
means land the title to which is held by an individual Indian or a tribe and which can only be alienated or encumbered by the owner with the approval of the Secretary because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to federal law.
Subpermit
means a written agreement, whereby the permittee grants to an individual or entity a right to possession (i.e., pasturing authorization), no greater than that held by the permittee under the permit.
Surety
means one who guarantees the performance of another.
Sustained yield
means the yield of agricultural products that a unit of land can produce continuously at a given level of use.
Trespass
means any unauthorized occupancy, use of, or action on Indian lands.
Tribal land
means the surface estate of land or any interest therein held by the United States in trust for a tribe, band, community, group or pueblo of Indians, and land that is held by a
tribe, band, community, group or pueblo of Indians, subject to federal restrictions against alienation or encumbrance, and includes such land reserved for BIA administrative purposes when it is not immediately needed for such purposes. The term also includes lands held by the United States in trust for an Indian corporation chartered under section 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 476).
Tribal law
means the body of non-federal law that governs lands and activities under the jurisdiction of a tribe, including ordinances or other enactments by the tribe, tribal court rulings, and tribal common law.
Trust land
means any tract, or interest therein, that the United States holds in trust status for the benefit of a tribe or individual Indian.
Undivided interest
means a fractional share in the surface estate of Indian land, where the surface estate is owned in common with other Indian landowners or fee owners.
Us/We/Our
means the BIA and any tribe acting on behalf of the BIA under 166.1 of this part.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP)
means the standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation to establish requirements and procedures for professional real property appraisal practice.
Written notice
means a written letter mailed by way of United States mail, certified return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or hand-delivered letter.

# Subpart B—Tribal Policies and Laws Pertaining to Permits
§ 166.100
What special tribal policies will we apply to permitting on Indian agricultural lands?
(a) When specifically authorized by an appropriate tribal resolution establishing a general policy for permitting of Indian agricultural lands, the BIA will:
(1) Waive the general prohibition against Indian operator preferences in permits advertised for bid under § 166.221 of this part, by allowing prospective Indian operators to match the highest responsible bid (unless the tribal law or leasing policy specifies some other manner in which the preference must be afforded);
(2) Waive or modify the requirement that a permittee post a surety or performance bond;
(3) Provide for posting of other collateral or security in lieu of surety or other bonds; and
(4) Approve permits of tribally-owned agricultural lands at rates determined by the tribal governing body.
(b) When specifically authorized by an appropriate tribal resolution establishing a general policy for permitting of Indian agricultural lands, and subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the BIA may:
(1) Waive or modify any general notice requirement of federal law; and
(2) Grant or approve a permit on “highly fractionated undivided heirship lands” as defined by tribal law.
(c) The BIA may take the action specified in paragraph (b) of this section only if:
(1) The tribe defines by resolution what constitutes “highly fractionated undivided heirship lands”;
(2) The tribe adopts an alternative plan for notifying individual Indian landowners; and
(3) The BIA's action is necessary to prevent waste, reduce idle land acreage and ensure income.
§ 166.101
May individual Indian landowners exempt their land from certain tribal policies for permitting on Indian agricultural lands?
(a) The individual Indian landowners of Indian land may exempt their land from our application of a tribal policy referred to under § 166.100 of this part if:
(1) The Indian landowners have at least a 50% interest in such fractionated tract; and
(2) The Indian landowners submit a written objection to the BIA of all or any part of such tribal policies to the permitting of such parcel of land.
(b) Upon verification of the written objection we will notify the tribe of the Indian landowners' exemption from the specific tribal policy.
(c) The procedures described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will also apply to withdrawing an approved exemption.
§ 166.102
Do tribal laws apply to permits?
Tribal laws will apply to permits of Indian land under the jurisdiction of the tribe enacting such laws, unless those tribal laws are inconsistent with applicable federal law.
§ 166.103
How will tribal laws be enforced on Indian agricultural land?
(a) Unless prohibited by federal law, we will recognize and comply with tribal laws regulating activities on Indian agricultural land, including tribal laws relating to land use, environmental protection, and historic or cultural preservation.
(b) While the tribe is primarily responsible for enforcing tribal laws pertaining to Indian agricultural land, we will:
(1) Assist in the enforcement of tribal laws;
(2) Provide notice of tribal laws to persons or entities undertaking activities on Indian agricultural land, under § 166.104(b) of this part; and
(3) Require appropriate federal officials to appear in tribal forums when requested by the tribe, so long as such an appearance would not:
(i) Be inconsistent with the restrictions on employee testimony set forth at 43 CFR Part 2, Subpart E;
(ii) Constitute a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the United States; or
(iii) Authorize or result in a review of our actions by a tribal court.
(c) Where the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with a tribal law, but such regulations cannot be superseded or modified by the tribal law under § 166.2 of this part, we may waive the regulations under part 1 of this title, so long as the waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with our general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 166.104
What notifications are required that tribal laws apply to permits on Indian agricultural lands?
(a) Tribes must notify us of the content and effective dates of new tribal laws.
(b) We will then notify affected Indian landowners and any persons or entities undertaking activities on Indian agricultural lands of the superseding or modifying effect of the tribal law. We will:
(1) Provide individual written notice; or
(2) Post public notice. This notice will be posted at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and/or published in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian lands where activities are occurring.

# Subpart C—Permit Requirements

# General Requirements
§ 166.200
When is a permit needed to authorize possession of Indian land for grazing purposes?
(a) Unless otherwise provided for in this part, any person or legal entity, including an independent legal entity owned and operated by a tribe, must obtain a permit under these regulations before taking possession of Indian land for grazing purposes.
(b) An Indian landowner who owns 100% of the trust or restricted interests in a tract may take possession of that Indian land without a permit or any other prior authorization from us.
(c) If an Indian landowner does not own 100 percent (%) of his or her Indian land and wants to use the Indian land for grazing purposes, a permit must be granted by the majority interest of the fractionated tract.
§ 166.201
Must parents or guardians of Indian minors who own Indian land obtain a permit before using land for grazing purposes?
Parents or guardians need not obtain a permit for Indian lands owned by their minor Indian children if:
(a) Those minor children own 100 percent (%) of the land; and
(b) The minor children directly benefit from the use of the land. We may require the user to provide evidence of the direct benefits to the minor children. When one of the minor children becomes an adult, the permit will have to be obtained from the majority interest.
§ 166.202
May an emancipated minor grant a permit?
Yes. An emancipated minor may grant a permit.
§ 166.203
When can the Indian landowners grant a permit?
(a) Tribes grant permits of tribal land, including any tribally-owned undivided interest(s) in a fractionated tract. A permit granted by the tribe must be approved by us, unless the permit is authorized by a charter approved by us under 25 U.S.C. § 477, or unless our approval is not required under other applicable federal law. In order to permit tribal land in which the beneficial interest has been assigned to another party, the assignee and the tribe must both grant the permit, subject to our approval.
(b) Individual Indian landowners may grant a permit of their land, including their undivided interest in a fractionated tract, subject to our approval. Except as otherwise provided in this part, these Indian landowners may include the owner of a life estate holding 100 percent (%) interest in their land.
(c) The owners of a majority interest in the Indian ownership of a fractionated tract may grant a permit, subject to our approval, without giving prior notice to the minority Indian landowners as long as the minority interest owners receive fair annual rental.
§ 166.204
Who may represent an individual Indian landowner in granting a permit?
The following individuals or entities may represent an individual Indian landowner in granting a permit:
(a) An adult with custody acting on behalf of their minor children;
(b) A guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to act on behalf of an individual Indian landowner;
(c) An adult or legal entity who has been given a written power of attorney that:
(1) Meets all of the formal requirements of any applicable tribal or state law;
(2) Identifies the attorney-in-fact and the land to be permitted; and
(3) Describes the scope of the power granted and any limits thereon.
§ 166.205
When can the BIA grant a permit on behalf of Indian landowners?
(a) We may grant a permit on behalf of:
(1) An individual who is adjudicated to be non compos mentis by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(2) An orphaned minor;
(3) An Indian landowner who has granted us written authority to permit his or her land;
(4) The undetermined heirs and devisees of a deceased Indian landowner;
(5) An Indian landowner whose whereabouts are unknown to us after a reasonable attempt is made to locate the Indian landowner;
(6) Indian landowners, where:
(i) We have provided written notice of our intent to grant a permit on their behalf, but the Indian landowners are unable to agree upon a permit during a three-month negotiation period immediately following such notice, or any other notice period established by a tribe under § 166.100(c)(2) of this part; and
(ii) The land is not being used by an individual Indian landowner under § 166.200 of this part.
(7) The individual Indian owners of fractionated Indian land, when necessary to protect the interests of the individual Indian landowners.
§ 166.206
What requirements apply to a permit on a fractionated tract?
We may grant a permit on behalf of all Indian landowners of a fractionated tract as long as the owners receive fair annual rental. Before granting such a permit, we may offer a preference right to any Indian landowner who:
(a) Is in possession of the entire tract;
(b) Submits a written offer to permit the land, subject to any required or negotiated terms and conditions, prior to our granting a permit to another party; and
(c) Provides any supporting documents needed to demonstrate the ability to perform all of the obligations under the proposed permit.
§ 166.207
What provisions will be contained in a permit?
A permit, at a minimum, must include:
(a) Authorized user(s);
(b) Conservation plan requirements;
(c) Prohibition against creating a nuisance, any illegal activity, and negligent use or waste or resources;
(d) Numbers and types of livestock allowed;
(e) Season(s) of use;
(f) Grazing rental payment, payment schedule, and late payment interest and penalties;
(g) Administrative fees;
(h) Tribal fees, if applicable;
(i) Payment method;
(j) Range unit number or name;
(k) Animal identification requirements;
(l) A description (preferably a legal description) of the permitted area;
(m) Term of permit (including beginning and ending dates of the term allowed, as well as any option to renew, extend or terminate);
(n) Conditions for making improvements, if any;
(o) A right of entry by the BIA for purposes of inspection or enforcement purposes;
(p) A provision concerning the applicability of tribal jurisdiction;
(q) A provision stating how trespass proceeds are to be distributed; and
(r) A provision for the permittee to indemnify the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials or the release or discharge of any hazardous material from the permitted premises that occur during the permit term, regardless of fault.
§ 166.208
How long is a permit term?
(a) The duration must be reasonable given the purpose of the permit and the level of investment required by the permittee to place the property into productive use.
(b) On behalf of the undetermined heirs of an individual Indian decedent owning 100 percent (%) interest in the land, we will grant or approve permits for a maximum term of two years.
(c) Permits granted for agricultural purposes will not usually exceed ten years. A term longer than ten years, but not to exceed 25 years unless authorized by other federal law, may be authorized when a longer term is determined by us to be in the best interest of the Indian landowners and when such permit requires substantial investment in the development of the lands by the permittee.
(d) A tribe may determine the duration of permits composed entirely of its tribal land or in combination with government land, subject to the same limitations provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(e) A permit will specify the beginning and ending dates of the term allowed, as well as any option to renew, extend, or terminate.
(f) Permits granted by us for protection of the Indian land will be for no more than two years.
§ 166.209
Must a permit be recorded?
A permit must be recorded in our Land Titles and Records Office which has jurisdiction over the land. We will record the permit immediately following our approval under this subpart.
§ 166.210
When is a decision by the BIA regarding a permit effective?
Our decision to approve a permit will be effective immediately, notwithstanding any appeal which may be filed under Part 2 of this title. Copies of the approved permit will be provided to the permitee and made available to the Indian landowners upon request.
§ 166.211
When are permits effective?
Unless otherwise provided in the permit, a permit will be effective on the date on which the permit is approved by us. A permit may be made effective on some past or future date, by agreement, but such a permit may not be granted or approved more than one year prior to the date on which the permit term is to commence.
§ 166.212
When may a permittee take possession of permitted Indian land?
The permittee may take possession of permitted Indian land on the date
specified in the permit as the beginning date of the term, but not before we approve the permit.
§ 166.213
Must I comply with any standards of conduct if I am granted a permit?
Yes. Permittees are expected to:
(a) Conduct grazing operations in accordance with the principles of sustained yield management, agricultural resource management planning, sound conservation practices, and other community goals as expressed in tribal laws, agricultural resource management plans, and similar sources.
(b) Comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements. You must also pay all applicable penalties that may be assessed for non-compliance.
(c) Fulfill all financial obligations of your permit owed to the Indian landowners and the United States.
(d) Conduct only those activities authorized by the permit.
§ 166.214
Will the BIA notify the permittee of any change in land title status?
Yes. We will notify the permittee if a fee patent is issued or if restrictions are removed. After we notify the permittee our obligation under § 166.228 of this part ceases.

# Obtaining A Permit
§ 166.215
How can I find Indian land available for grazing?
You may contact a local BIA office or tribal office to determine what Indian land may be available for grazing permits.
§ 166.216
Who is responsible for permitting Indian land?
The Indian landowner is primarily responsible for granting permits on their Indian land, with the assistance and approval of the BIA, except where otherwise provided by law. You may contact the local BIA or tribal office for assistance in obtaining a permit for grazing purposes on Indian land.
§ 166.217
In what manner may a permit on Indian land be granted?
(a) A tribe may grant a permit on tribal land through tribal allocation, negotiation, or advertisement in accordance with § 166.203 of this part. We must approve all permits of tribal land in order for the permit to be valid, except where otherwise provided by law.
(b) Individual Indian landowners may grant a permit on their Indian land through negotiation or advertisement in accordance with § 166.203 of this part. We must approve all permits of Individual Indian land in order for the permit to be valid.
(c) We will grant permits through negotiation or advertisement for range units containing, in whole or part, individually-owned Indian land and range units that consist of, or in combination with individually-owned Indian land, tribal or government land, under § 166.205 of this part. We will consult with tribes prior to granting permits for range units that include tribal land.
§ 166.218
How do I acquire a permit through tribal allocation?
(a) A tribe may allocate grazing privileges on range units containing trust or restricted land which is entirely tribally-owned or which contains only tribal and government land under the control of the tribe.
(b) A tribe may allocate grazing privileges to its members and to tribally-authorized entities without competitive bidding on tribal and tribally-controlled government land.
(c) We will implement the tribe's allocation procedure by authorizing the grazing privileges on individually-owned Indian land and government land, subject to the rental rate provisions in § 166.400(b) and (c) of this part.
(d) A tribe may prescribe the eligibility requirements for allocations 60 days before granting a new permit or before an existing permit expires.
(e) 120 days before the expiration of existing permits, we will notify the tribe of the 60-day period during which the tribe may prescribe eligibility requirements.
(f) We will prescribe the eligibility requirements after the expiration of the 60-day period in the event satisfactory action is not taken by the tribe.
(g) Grazing rental rates for grazing privileges allocated from an existing permit, in whole or in part, must equal
or exceed the rates paid by the preceding permittee(s). Tribal members will pay grazing rental rates established by the tribe on tribal lands.
§ 166.219
How do I acquire a permit through negotiation?
(a) Permits may be negotiated and granted by the Indian landowners with the permittee of their choice. The BIA may negotiate and grant permits on behalf of Indian landowners pursuant to § 166.205 of this part.
(b) Upon the conclusion of negotiations with the Indian landowners or their representatives, and the satisfaction of any applicable conditions, you may submit an executed permit and any required supporting documents to us for appropriate action. Where a permit is in a form that has previously been accepted or approved by us, and all of the documents needed to support the findings required by this part have been received, we will decide whether to approve the permit within 30 days of the date of our receipt of the permit and supporting documents. If we decide to approve or disapprove a permit, we will notify the parties immediately and advise them of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this title.
(c) In negotiating a permit, the Indian landowners may choose to include their land in the permit in exchange for their receipt of a share of the revenues or profits generated by the permit. Under such an arrangement, the permit may be granted to a joint venture or other legal entity owned, in part, by the Indian landowners.
(d) Receipt of permit payments based upon income received from the land will not, of itself, make the Indian landowner a partner, joint venturer, or associate of the permittees.
(e) We will assist prospective permittees in contacting the Indian landowners or their representatives, for the purpose of negotiating a permit.
§ 166.220
What are the basic steps for acquiring a permit through negotiation?
The basic steps for acquiring a permit by negotiation are as follows:
(a) The BIA or the Indian landowner will:
(1) Receive a request to permit from an Indian landowner or the potential permittee;
(2) Prepare the permit documents; and
(3) Grant the permit.
(b) A potential permittee will complete the requirements for securing a permit, (e.g., bond, insurance, payment of administrative fee, etc.);
(c) We will:
(1) Review the permit for proper documentation and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations;
(2) Approve the permit after our review;
(3) Send the approved permit to the permittee and, upon request, to the Indian landowner; and
(4) Record and maintain the approved permit.
§ 166.221
How do I acquire an advertised permit through competitive bidding?
(a) As part of the negotiation of a permit, Indian landowners may advertise their Indian land to identify potential permittees with whom to negotiate.
(b) When the BIA grants and approves a permit on behalf of an individual Indian landowner using an advertisement for bids, we will:
(1) Prepare and distribute an advertisement of lands available for permit that identifies the terms and conditions of the permit sale, including, for agricultural permits, any preference rights;
(2) Solicit sealed bids and conduct the public permit sale;
(3) Determine and accept the highest or best responsible bidder(s), which may require further competitive bidding after the bid opening; and
(4) Prepare permits for successful bidders.
(c) After completion of the steps in paragraph (b) of this section, the successful bidder must complete and submit the permit and satisfy all applicable requirements, (e.g., bond, insurance, payment of administrative fee, etc.).
(d) After review of the permit documentation for proper completion and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, within 30 days we will:
(1) Grant and approve the permit on behalf of Indian landowners where we are authorized to do so by law;
(2) Distribute the approved permit to the permittee(s) and, upon request, to the Indian landowner(s); and
(3) Record and maintain the approved permit.
§ 166.222
Are there standard permit forms?
Yes. Standard permit forms, including bid forms, permit forms, and permit modification forms are available at our agency offices.

# Permit (Leasehold) Mortgage
§ 166.223
Can I use a permit as collateral for a loan?
We may approve a permit containing a provision that authorizes the permittee to encumber the permit interest, known as a leasehold mortgage, for the development and improvement of the permitted Indian land. We must approve the leasehold mortgage that encumbers the permit interest before it can be effective. We will record the approved leasehold mortgage instrument.
§ 166.224
What factors does the BIA consider when reviewing a leasehold mortgage?
(a) We will approve the leasehold mortgage if:
(1) All consents required in the permit have been obtained from the Indian landowners and any surety or guarantor;
(2) The mortgage covers only the permit interest, and no unrelated collateral belonging to the permittee;
(3) The financing being obtained will be used only in connection with the development or use of the permitted premises, and the mortgage does not secure any unrelated obligations owed by the permittee to the mortgagee; and
(4) We find no compelling reason to withhold our approval, in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowner.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we will consider whether:
(1) The ability to perform the permit obligations would be adversely affected by the cumulative mortgage obligations;
(2) Any negotiated permit provisions as to the allocation or control of insurance or condemnation proceeds would be modified;
(3) The remedies available to us or the Indian landowners would be limited (beyond the additional notice and cure rights to be afforded to the mortgagee), if the permittee defaults on the permit;
(4) Any rights of the Indian landowners would be subordinated or adversely affected in the event of a foreclosure, assignment in lieu of foreclosure, or issuance of a “new permit” to the mortgagee.
(c) We will notify the Indian landowners of our approval of the leasehold mortgage.
§ 166.225
May a permittee voluntarily assign a leasehold interest under an approved encumbrance?
With our approval, under an approved encumbrance, a permittee voluntarily may assign the leasehold interest to someone other than the holder of a leasehold mortgage if the assignee agrees in writing to be bound by the terms of the permit. A permit may provide the Indian landowners with a right of first refusal on the conveyance of the leasehold interest.
§ 166.226
May the holder of a leasehold mortgage assign the leasehold interest after a sale or foreclosure of an approved encumbrance?
Yes. The holder of a leasehold mortgage may assign a leasehold interest obtained by a sale or foreclosure of an approved encumbrance without our approval if the assignee agrees in writing to be bound by the terms of the permit. A permit may provide the Indian landowners with a right of first refusal on the conveyance of the permit interest (leasehold).

# Modifying a Permit
§ 166.227
How can Indian land be removed from an existing permit?
(a) We will remove Indian land from the permit if:
(1) The trust status of the Indian land terminates;
(2) The Indian landowners request removal of their interest, with the written approval of the majority interest of the fractionated tract to be removed,
and we determine that the removal is beneficial to such interests;
(3) A tribe allocates grazing privileges for Indian land covered by your permit under § 166.218 of this part;
(4) The permittee requests removal of the Indian land, the owners of the majority interest of the Indian land provides written approval of the removal of the Indian land, and we determine that the removal is warranted; or
(5) We determine that removal of the Indian land is appropriate, with the written approval of the owners of the majority interest of the Indian land.
(b) We will revise the grazing capacity to reflect the removal of Indian land and show it on the permit.
§ 166.228
How will the BIA provide notice if Indian land is removed from an existing permit?
If the reason for removal is:
(a) Termination of trust status. We will notify the parties to the permit in writing within 30 days. The removal will be effective on the next anniversary date of the permit.
(b) A request from Indian landowners or the permittee, or our determination. We will notify the parties to the permit in writing within 30 days of such request. The removal will be effective immediately if all sureties, Indian landowners, and permittee agree. Otherwise, the removal will be effective upon the next anniversary date of the permit. If our written notice is within 180 days of the anniversary date of the permit, the removal of Indian land will be effective 180 days after the written notice.
(c) Tribal allocation under § 166.218 of this part. We will notify the parties to the permit in writing within 180 days of such action. The removal of tribal land will be effective on the next anniversary date of the permit. If our written notice is within 180 days of the anniversary date of the permit, the removal of Indian land will be effective 180 days after the written notice.
§ 166.229
Other than to remove land, how can a permit be amended, assigned, subpermitted, or mortgaged?
(a) We must approve an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage with the written consent of the parties to the permit in the same manner that the permit was approved, and the consent of the sureties.
(b) Indian landowners may designate in writing one or more of their co-owners or representatives to negotiate and/or agree to amendments on their behalf.
(1) The designated landowner or representative may:
(i) Negotiate or agree to amendments; and
(ii) Consent to or approve other items as necessary.
(2) The designated landowner or representative may not:
(i) Negotiate or agree to amendments that reduce the grazing rental payments payable to the other Indian landowners; or
(ii) Terminate the permit or modify the term of the permit.
(c) We may approve a permit for tribal land to individual members of a tribe which contains a provision permitting the assignment of the permit by the permittee or the lender without our approval when a lending institution or an agency of the United States:
(1) Accepts the interest in the permit (leasehold) as security for the loan; and
(2) Obtains the interest in the permit (leasehold) through foreclosure or otherwise.
(d) We will revise the grazing capacity and modify the permit.
§ 166.230
When will a BIA decision to approve an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage under a permit be effective?
Our decision to approve an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage under a permit will be effective immediately, notwithstanding any appeal which may be filed under Part 2 of this title. Copies of approved documents will be provided to the party requesting approval, and made available to the Indian landowners upon request.
§ 166.231
Must an amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage approved under a permit be recorded?
An amendment, assignment, subpermit, or mortgage approved under a permit must be recorded in our Land Titles and Records Office which has jurisdiction over the Indian land. We will
record the document immediately following our approval.

# Subpart D—Land and Operations Management
§ 166.300
How is Indian agricultural land managed?
Tribes, individual Indian landowners, and the BIA will manage Indian agricultural land either directly or through contracts, compacts, cooperative agreements, or grants under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, as amended).
§ 166.301
How is Indian land for grazing purposes described?
Indian land for grazing purposes should be described by legal description (e.g., aliquot parts, metes and bounds) or other acceptable description. Where there are undivided interests owned in fee status, the aggregate portion of trust and restricted interests should be identified in the description of the permitted land.
§ 166.302
How is a range unit created?
We create a range unit after we consult with the Indian landowners of rangeland, by designating units of compatible size, availability, and location.
§ 166.303
Can more than one parcel of Indian land be combined into one permit?
Yes. A permit may include more than one parcel of Indian land. Permits may include tribal land, individually-owned Indian land, or government land, or any combination thereof.
§ 166.304
Can there be more than one permit for each range unit?
Yes. There can be more than one permit for each range unit.
§ 166.305
When is grazing capacity determined?
Before we grant, modify, or approve a permit, in consultation with the Indian landowners, we will establish the total grazing capacity for each range unit based on the summation of each parcel's productivity. We will also establish the season(s) of use on Indian lands.
§ 166.306
Can the BIA adjust the grazing capacity?
Yes. In consultation with the Indian landowners or in the BIA's discretion based on good cause, we may adjust the grazing capacity using the best evaluation method(s) relevant to the ecological region.
§ 166.307
Will the grazing capacity be increased if I graze adjacent trust or non-trust rangelands not covered by the permit?
No. You will not receive an increase in grazing capacity in the permit if you graze trust or non-trust rangeland in common with the permitted land. Grazing capacity will be established only for Indian land covered by your permit.
§ 166.308
Can the number of animals and/or season of use be modified on the permitted land if I graze adjacent trust or non-trust rangelands under an on-and-off grazing permit?
Yes. The number of animals and/or season of use may be modified on permitted Indian land with an on-and-off grazing permit only when a conservation plan includes the use of adjacent trust or non-trust rangelands not covered by the permit and when that land is used in common with permitted land.
§ 166.309
Who determines livestock class and livestock ownership requirements on permitted Indian land?
(a) Tribes determine the class of livestock and livestock ownership requirements for livestock that may be grazed on range units composed entirely of tribal land or which include government land, subject to the grazing capacity prescribed by us under § 166.305 of this part.
(b) For permits on range units containing, in whole or part, individually-owned Indian land, we will adopt the tribal determination in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 166.310
What must a permittee do to protect livestock from exposure to disease?
In accordance with applicable law, permittees must:
(a) Vaccinate livestock;
(b) Treat all livestock exposed to or infected with contagious or infectious diseases; and
(c) Restrict the movement of exposed or infected livestock.

# Management Plans and Environmental Compliance
§ 166.311
Is an Indian agricultural resource management plan required?
(a) Indian agricultural land under the jurisdiction of a tribe must be managed in accordance with the goals and objectives in any agricultural resource management plan developed by the tribe, or by us in close consultation with the tribe, under the AIARMA.
(b) The ten-year agricultural resource management and monitoring plan must be developed through public meetings and completed within three years of the initiation of the planning activity. Such a plan must be developed through public meetings, and be based on the public meeting records and existing survey documents, reports, and other research from federal agencies, tribal community colleges, and land grant universities. When completed, the plan must:
(1) Determine available agricultural resources;
(2) Identify specific tribal agricultural resource goals and objectives;
(3) Establish management objectives for the resources;
(4) Define critical values of the tribe and its members and provide identified holistic management objectives; and
(5) Identify actions to be taken to reach established objectives.
(c) Where the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with a tribe's agricultural resource management plan, we may waive the regulations under part 1 of this title, so long as the waiver does not violate a federal statute or judicial decision or conflict with our general trust responsibility under federal law.
§ 166.312
Is a conservation plan required?
A conservation plan must be developed for each permit with the permittee and approved by us prior to the issuance of the permit. The conservation plan must be consistent with the tribe's agricultural resource management plan and must address the permittee's management objectives regarding animal husbandry and resource conservation. The conservation plan must cover the entire permit period and reviewed by us on an annual basis.
§ 166.313
Is environmental compliance required?
Actions taken by the BIA under the regulations in this part must comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), applicable regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR part 1500), and applicable tribal laws and regulations.

# Conservation Practices and Improvements
§ 166.314
Can a permittee apply a conservation practice on permitted Indian land?
Yes. A permittee can apply a conservation practice on permitted Indian land as long as the permittee has approval from the BIA and majority interest and the conservation practice is consistent with the conservation plan.
§ 166.315
Who is responsible for the completion and maintenance of a conservation practice if the permit expires or is canceled before the completion of the conservation practice?
Prior to undertaking a conservation practice, the BIA, landowner, and permittee will negotiate who will complete and maintain a conservation practice if the permit expires or is canceled before the conservation practice is completed. That conservation practice agreement will be reflected in the conservation plan and permit.
§ 166.316
Can a permittee construct improvements on permitted Indian land?
Improvements may be constructed on permitted Indian land if the permit contains a provision allowing improvements.
§ 166.317
What happens to improvements constructed on Indian lands when the permit has been terminated?
(a) If improvements are to be constructed on Indian land, the permit must contain a provision that improvements will either:
(1) Remain on the land upon termination of the permit, in a condition that is in compliance with applicable codes, to become the property of the Indian landowner; or
(2) Be removed and the land restored within a time period specified in the permit. The land must be restored as close as possible to the original condition prior to construction of such improvements. At the request of the permittee we may, at our discretion, grant an extension of time for the removal of improvements and restoration of the land for circumstances beyond the control of the permittee.
(b) If the permittee fails to remove improvements within the time allowed in the permit, the permittee may forfeit the right to remove the improvements and the improvements may become the property of the Indian landowner or at the request of the Indian landowner, we will apply the bond for the removal of the improvement and restoration of the land.

# Subpart E—Grazing Rental Rates, Payments, and Late Payment Collections

# Rental Rate Determination and Adjustment
§ 166.400
Who establishes grazing rental rates?
(a) For tribal lands, a tribe may establish a grazing rental rate that is less or more than the grazing rental rate established by us. We will assist a tribe to establish a grazing rental rate by providing the tribe with available information concerning the value of grazing on tribal lands.
(b) We will establish the grazing rental rate by determining the fair annual rental for:
(1) Individually-owned Indian lands; and
(2) Tribes that have not established a rate under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Indian landowners may give us written authority to grant grazing privileges on their individually-owned Indian land at a grazing rental rate that is:
(1) Above the grazing rental rate set by us; or
(2) Below the grazing rental rate set by us, subject to our approval, when the permittee is a member of the Indian landowner's immediate family as defined in this part.
§ 166.401
How does the BIA establish grazing rental rates?
An appraisal can be used to determine the rental value of real property. The development and reporting of the valuation will be completed in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP). If an appraisal is not desired, competitive bids, negotiations, advertisements, or any other method can be used in conjunction with a market study, rent survey, or feasibility analysis developed in accordance with the USPAP.
§ 166.402
Why must the BIA determine the fair annual rental of Indian land?
The BIA must determine the fair annual rental of Indian land to:
(a) Assist the Indian landowner in negotiating a permit with potential permittees; and
(b) Enable us to determine whether a permit is in the best interests of the Indian landowner.
§ 166.403
Will the BIA ever grant or approve a permit at less than fair annual rental?
(a) We will grant a permit for grazing on individually-owned Indian land at less than fair annual rental if, after competitive bidding of the permit, we determine that such action would be in the best interests of the individual Indian landowners.
(b) We may approve a permit for grazing on individually-owned Indian land at less than fair annual rental if:
(1) The permit is for the Indian landowner's immediate family or co-owner; or
(2) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
(c) We may approve a permit for grazing on tribal land at less than fair annual rental if the tribe sets the rate.
§ 166.404
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on tribal land?
The following grazing rental rate schedule will apply for tribal land:
If you are * * *
And if * * *
Then you will pay * * *
(a) Grazing livestock on tribal land
The tribe established the grazing rental rate
The rate set by the tribe.
(b) Grazing livestock on tribal land
No tribal grazing rental rate has been established
The rate set by the BIA.
(c) The successful bidder for use of any of these specific parcels of Indian land
Your rental rate bid, but not less than the minimum bid rate advertised.
§ 166.405
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on individually-owned Indian land?
The following grazing rental rate schedule will apply for individually-owned Indian land:
If you are * * *
Then you will pay * * *
(a) Grazing livestock on Individually-owned Indian land
The rate set by the BIA or by the individual Indian landowner and approved by us.
(b) The successful bidder for use of any of these specific parcels of Indian land
Your rental rate bid, but not less than the minimum bid rate advertised, unless the permit is granted at less than fair annual rental under § 166.403.
(c) The recipient of an allocation from a bid unit
The bid rate or the appraised rate, whichever is higher.
§ 166.406
Whose grazing rental rate will be applicable for a permit on government land?
The following grazing rental rate schedule will apply for government land:
If you are * * *
And if * * *
Then you will pay * * *
(a) Grazing livestock on government land
The tribe has control over the land or the tribe has authority to set the rate
The rate set by the tribe.
(b) Grazing livestock on government land
Government controls all use of the land
The rate set by the BIA.
§ 166.407
If a range unit consists of tribal and individually-owned Indian lands, what is the grazing rental rate?
The grazing rental rate for tribal land will be the rate set by the tribe. The grazing rental rate for individually-owned Indian land will be the grazing rental rate set by us.
§ 166.408
Is the grazing rental rate established by the BIA adjusted periodically?
Yes. To ensure that Indian landowners are receiving the fair annual return, we may adjust the grazing rental rate established by the BIA, based upon an appropriate valuation method, taking into account the value of improvements made under the permit, unless the permit provides otherwise, following the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(a) We will:
(1) Review the grazing rental rate prior to each anniversary date or when specified by the permit.
(2) Provide you with written notice of any adjustment of the grazing rental rate 60 days prior to each anniversary date.
(3) Allow the adjusted grazing rental rate to be less than the fair annual rental if we determine that such a rate is in the best interest of the Indian landowner.
(b) If adjusted, the grazing rental rate will become effective on the next anniversary date of the permit.
(c) These adjustments will be retroactive, if they are not made at the time specified in the permit.
(d) For permits granted by tribes, we will consult with the granting tribe to determine whether an adjustment of the grazing rental payment should be made. The permit must be modified to document the granting tribe's waiver of the adjustment. A tribe may grant a permit without providing for a rental adjustment, if the tribe establishes such a policy under § 166.100(a)(4) of this part and negotiates such a permit.

# Rental Payments
§ 166.409
How is my grazing rental payment determined?
The grazing rental payment is the total of the grazing rental rate multiplied by the number of AUMs or acres covered by the permit.
§ 166.410
When are grazing rental payments due?
The initial grazing rental payment is due and payable as specified in the permit or 15 days after the BIA approves the permit, whichever is later. Subsequent payments are due as specified in the permit.
§ 166.411
Will a permittee be notified when a grazing rental payment is due?
Each permit states the schedule of rental payments agreed to by the parties. We will issue an invoice to the permittee 30 to 60 days prior to the rental payment due date.
§ 166.412
What if the permittee does not receive an invoice that a grazing rental payment is due?
If we fail to send an invoice or if we send an invoice and the permittee does not receive it, the permittee is still responsible for making timely payment of all amounts due under the permit.
§ 166.413
To whom are grazing rental payments made?
(a) A permit must specify whether grazing rental payments will be made directly to the Indian landowners or to us on behalf of the Indian landowners. If the permit provides for payment to be made directly to the Indian landowners, the permit must also require that the permittee retain specific documentation evidencing proof of payment, such as canceled checks, cash receipt vouchers, or copies of money orders or cashier's checks, consistent with the provisions of §§ 166.1000 and 166.1001 of this part.
(b) Grazing rental payments made directly to the Indian landowners must be made to the parties specified in the permit, unless the permittee receives a notice of a change of ownership. Unless otherwise provided in the permit, grazing rental payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(c) A permit which provides for grazing rental payments to be made directly to the Indian landowners must also provide for such payments to be suspended and rent thereafter paid to us, rather than directly than to the Indian landowners, if:
(1) An Indian landowner dies;
(2) An Indian landowner requests that payment be made to us;
(3) An Indian landowner is found by us to be in need of assistance in managing his/her financial affairs; or
(4) We determine, in our discretion and after consultation with the Indian landowner(s), that direct payment should be discontinued.
§ 166.414
What forms of grazing rental payments are acceptable?
(a) When grazing rental payments are made directly to the Indian landowners, the form of payment must be acceptable to the Indian landowners.
(b) Payments made to us may be delivered in person or by mail. We will not accept cash, foreign currency, or third-party checks. We will accept:
(1) Personal or business checks drawn on the account of the permittee;
(2) Money orders;
(3) Cashier's checks;
(4) Certified checks; or
(5) Electronic funds transfer payments.
§ 166.415
What will the BIA do if the permittee fails to make a direct payment to an Indian landowner?
Within five business days of the Indian landowner's notification to us that a payment has not been received, we will contact the permittee either in writing or by telephone requesting that the permittee provide documentation (e.g., canceled check, cash receipt voucher, copy of a money order or cashier's check) showing that payment has been made to the Indian landowner. If the permitee fails to provide such documentation, we will follow the procedures identified in § 166.419 of this part to collect the money on behalf of the Indian landowner or to cancel the permit.
§ 166.416
May a permittee make a grazing rental payment in advance of the due date?
Rent may be paid no more than 30 days in advance, unless otherwise specified in the permit.
§ 166.417
May an individual Indian landowner modify the terms of the permit on a fractionated tract for advance grazing rental payment?
No. An individual Indian landowner of a fractionated tract may not modify a permit to allow a grazing rental payment in advance of the due date specified in the initial approved permit.
§ 166.418
When is a grazing rental payment late?
A grazing rental payment is late if it is not received on or before the due date.

# Late Rental Payment Collections
§ 166.419
What will the BIA do if grazing rental payments are not made in the time and manner required by the permit?
(a) A permitee's failure to pay grazing rental payments in the time and manner required by a permit will be a violation of the permit, and a notice of violation will be issued under § 166.703 of this part. If the permit requires that grazing rental payments be made to us, we will send the permittee and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which the grazing rental payment was due. If the permit provides for payment directly to the Indian landowner(s), we will send the permittee and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowner(s).
(b) If a permittee fails to provide adequate proof of payment or cure the violation within the requisite time period described in § 166.704 of this part, and the amount due is not in dispute, we may immediately take action to recover the amount of the unpaid rent and any associated interest charges or late payment penalties. We may also cancel the permit under § 166.705 of this part, or invoke any other remedies available under the permit or applicable law, including collection on any available bond or referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection. An action to recover any unpaid amounts will not be conditioned on the prior cancellation of the permit or any further notice to the permittee, nor will such an action be precluded by a prior cancellation.
(c) Partial payments may be accepted, under special circumstances, by the Indian landowners or us, but acceptance will not operate as a waiver with respect to any amounts remaining unpaid or any other existing permit violations. Unless otherwise provided in the permit, overpayments may be credited as an advance against future grazing rental payments.
(d) If a personal or business check is dishonored, and a grazing rental payment is therefore not made by the due date, the failure to make the payment in a timely manner will be a violation of the permit, and a written notice of violation will be issued under § 166.703 of this part. Any payment made to cure such a default, and any future payments by the same permittee, must be made by one of the alternative payment methods listed in § 166.414(b) of this part.
§ 166.420
Will any special fees be assessed on delinquent grazing rental payments due under a permit?
The following special fees will be assessed if a grazing rental payment is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to any interest or
late payment penalties which must be paid to the Indian landowners under a permit. The following special fees will be assessed to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt:
The permittee will pay * * *
For * * *
(a) $50.00
Administrative fee for checks returned by the bank for insufficient funds.
(b) $15.00
Administrative fee for the BIA processing of each demand letter.
(c) 18% of balance due
Administrative fee charged by the Department of Treasury for collection.
§ 166.421
If a permit is canceled for non-payment, does that extinguish the permittee's debt?
No. The permittee remains liable for any delinquent payment. No future permits will be issued until all outstanding debts related to Indian agricultural lands are paid.

# Compensation to Indian Landowners
§ 166.422
What does the BIA do with grazing rental payments received from permittees?
Unless arrangements for direct payment to the Indian landowners has been provided, the rent will be deposited to the appropriate account maintained by the Office of Trust Funds Management in accordance with part 115 of this title.
§ 166.423
How do Indian landowners receive grazing rental payments that the BIA has received from permittees?
Funds will be paid to the Indian landowners by the Office of Trust Funds Management in accordance with 25 CFR part 115.
§ 166.424
How will the BIA determine the grazing rental payment amount to be distributed to each Indian landowner?
Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the grazing rental payment will be distributed to each Indian landowner according to the forage production that each parcel of Indian land contributes to the permit, annual rental rate of each parcel, and the Indian landowner's interest in each parcel.

# Subpart F—Administrative and Tribal Fees
§ 166.500
Are there administrative fees for a permit?
Yes. We will charge an administrative fee before approving any permit, subpermit, assignment, encumbrance, modification, or other related document.
§ 166.501
How are annual administrative fees determined?
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), we will charge a three percent (%) administrative fee based on the annual grazing rent.
(b) The minimum administrative fee is $10.00 and the maximum administrative fee is $500.00.
(c) If a tribe performs all or part of the administrative duties for this part, the tribe may establish, collect, and use reasonable fees to cover its costs associated with the performance of administrative duties.
§ 166.502
Are administrative fees refundable?
No. We will not refund administrative fees.
§ 166.503
May the BIA waive administrative fees?
Yes. We may waive the administrative fee for a justifiable reason.
§ 166.504
Are there any other administrative or tribal fees, taxes, or assessments that must be paid?
Yes. The permittee may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and/or assessments associated with the use of the land as determined by us or by the tribe. Failure to make such payments will constitute a permit violation under subpart H of this part.

# Subpart G—Bonding and Insurance Requirements
§ 166.600
Must a permittee provide a bond for a permit?
Yes. A permittee, assignee or subpermittee must provide a bond for each permit interest acquired. Upon request by an Indian landowner, we may waive the bond requirement.
§ 166.601
How is the amount of the bond determined?
(a) The amount of the bond for each permit is based on the:
(1) Value of one year's grazing rental payment;
(2) Value of any improvements to be constructed;
(3) Cost of performance of any additional obligations; and
(4) Cost of performance of restoration and reclamation.
(b) Tribal policy made applicable by § 166.100 of this part may establish or waive specific bond requirements for permits.
§ 166.602
What form of bonds will the BIA accept?
(a) We will only accept bonds in the following forms:
(1) Cash;
(2) Negotiable Treasury securities that:
(i) Have a market value equal to the bond amount; and
(ii) Are accompanied by a statement granting full authority to the BIA to sell such securities in case of a violation of the terms of the permit.
(3) Certificates of deposit that indicate on their face that Secretarial approval is required prior to redemption by any party;
(4) Irrevocable letters of credit (LOC) issued by federally-insured financial institutions authorized to do business in the United States. LOC's must:
(i) Contain a clause that grants the BIA authority to demand immediate payment if the permittee defaults or fails to replace the LOC within 30 calendar days prior to its expiration date;
(ii) Be payable to the “Department of the Interior, BIA”;
(iii) Be irrevocable during its term and have an initial expiration date of not less than one year following the date we receive it; and
(iv) Be automatically renewable for a period of not less than one year, unless the issuing financial institution provides the BIA with written notice at least 90 calendar days before the letter of credit's expiration date that it will not be renewed;
(5) Surety bond; or
(6) Any other form of highly liquid, non-volatile security subsequently approved by us that is easily convertible to cash by us and for which our approval is required prior to redemption by any party.
(b) Indian landowners may negotiate a permit term that specifies the use of any of the bond forms described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) A tribe may accept and hold any form of bond described in paragraph (a) of this section, to secure performance under a permit of tribal land.
§ 166.603
If cash is submitted as a bond, how is it administered?
If cash is submitted as a bond, we will establish an account in the name of the permittee and retain it.
§ 166.604
Is interest paid on a cash performance bond?
No. Interest will not be paid on a cash performance bond.
§ 166.605
Are cash performance bonds refunded?
If the cash performance bond has not been forfeited for cause, the amount deposited will be refunded to the depositor at the end of the permit period.
§ 166.606
What happens to a bond if a violation occurs?
We may apply the bond to remedy the violation, in which case we will require the permittee to submit a replacement bond of an appropriate amount.
§ 166.607
Is insurance required for a permit?
When we determine it to be in the best interest of the Indian landowners, we will require a permittee to provide insurance. If insurance is required, it must:
(a) Be provided in an amount sufficient to:
(1) Protect any improvements on the permit premises;
(2) Cover losses such as personal injury or death; and
(3) Protect the interest of the Indian landowner.
(b) Identify the tribe, individual Indian landowners, and United States as insured parties.
§ 166.608
What types of insurance may be required?
We may require liability or casualty insurance (such as for fire, hazard, or flood), depending upon the activity conducted under the permit.

# Subpart H—Permit Violations
§ 166.700
What permit violations are addressed by this subpart?
This subpart addresses violations of permit provisions other than trespass. Trespass is addressed under subpart I of this part.
§ 166.701
How will the BIA determine whether the activities of a permittee under a permit are in compliance with the terms of the permit?
Unless the permit provides otherwise, we may enter the range unit at any reasonable time, without prior notice, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and ensure that the permittee is in compliance with the operating requirements of the permit.
§ 166.702
Can a permit provide for negotiated remedies in the event of a permit violation?
(a) A permit of tribal land may provide the tribe with certain negotiated remedies in the event of a permit violation, including the power to terminate the permit. A permit of individually-owned Indian land may provide the individual Indian landowners with similar remedies, so long as the permit also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the Indian landowners. Any notice of violation must be provided by written notice.
(b) The negotiated remedies described in paragraph (a) of this section will apply in addition to the cancellation remedy available to us under § 166.705(c) of this subpart. If the permit specifically authorizes us to exercise any negotiated remedies on behalf of the Indian landowners, the exercise of such remedies may substitute for cancellation.
(c) A permit may provide for permit disputes to be resolved in tribal court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, or through arbitration or some other alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to any ongoing proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us under § 166.705 of this subpart.
§ 166.703
What happens if a permit violation occurs?
(a) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific permit violation has occurred, we will initiate an appropriate investigation within five business days of that notification.
(b) If we determine that a permit violation has occurred based on facts known to us, we will provide written notice to the permittee and the sureties of the violation within five business days.
§ 166.704
What will a written notice of a permit violation contain?
The written notice of a permit violation will provide the permittee with ten days from the receipt of the written notice to:
(a) Cure the permit violation and notify us that the violation is cured.
(b) Explain why we should not cancel the permit; or
(c) Request in writing additional time to complete corrective actions. If additional time is granted, we may require that certain corrective actions be taken immediately.
§ 166.705
What will the BIA do if a permit violation is not cured within the required time period?
(a) If the permittee does not cure a violation within the required time period, we will consult with the Indian landowners, as appropriate, and determine whether:
(1) The permit should be canceled by us under paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 166.706 through 166.707 of this subpart;
(2) We should invoke any other remedies available to us under the permit, including collecting on any available bond;
(3) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the permit; or
(4) The permittee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) If we decide to grant a permittee additional time in which to cure a violation, the permittee must proceed diligently to complete the necessary corrective actions within a reasonable or specified time period from the date on which the extension is granted.
(c) If we decide to cancel the permit, we will send the permittee and its sureties a written notice of cancellation within five business days of that decision. We will also provide actual or constructive notice of a cancellation decision to the Indian landowners, as appropriate. The written notice of cancellation will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) Notify the permittee of the amount of any unpaid rent, interest charges, or late payment penalties due under the permit;
(3) Notify the permittee of its right to appeal under Part 2 of this chapter, as modified by § 166.706 of this subpart, including the amount of any appeal bond that must be posted with an appeal of the cancellation decision; and
(4) Order the permittee to vacate the property within 30 days of the date of receipt of the written notice of cancellation, if an appeal is not filed by that time.
§ 166.706
Will the BIA's regulations concerning appeal bonds apply to cancellation decisions involving permits?
(a) The appeal bond provisions in § 2.5 of part 2 of this chapter will not apply to appeals from permit cancellation decisions made under § 166.705 of this subpart. Instead, when we decide to cancel a permit, we may require the permittee to post an appeal bond with an appeal of the cancellation decision. The requirement to post an appeal bond will apply in addition to all of the other requirements in part 2 of this chapter.
(b) An appeal bond should be set in an amount necessary to protect the Indian landowners against financial losses that will likely result from the delay caused by an appeal. Appeal bond requirements will not be separately appealable, but may be contested during the appeal of the permit cancellation decision.
§ 166.707
When will a cancellation of a permit be effective?
A cancellation decision involving a permit will not be effective for 30 days after the permittee receives a written notice of cancellation from us. The cancellation decision will remain ineffective if the permittee files an appeal under § 166.706 of this subpart and part 2 of this chapter, unless the decision is made immediately effective under part 2. While a cancellation decision is ineffective, the permittee must continue to pay rent and comply with the other terms of the permit. If an appeal is not filed in accordance with § 166.706 of this subpart and part 2 of this chapter, the cancellation decision will be effective on the 31st day after the permittee receives the written notice of cancellation from us.
§ 166.708
Can the BIA take emergency action if the rangeland is threatened with immediate, significant, and irreparable harm?
Yes. If a permittee or any other party causes or threatens to cause immediate, significant and irreparable harm to the Indian land during the term of a permit, we will take appropriate emergency action. Emergency action may include trespass proceedings under subpart I of this part, or judicial action seeking immediate cessation of the activity resulting in or threatening the harm. Reasonable efforts will be made to notify the Indian landowners, either before or after the emergency action is taken.
§ 166.709
What will the BIA do if a permittee holds over after the expiration or cancellation of a permit?
If a permittee remains in possession of Indian land after the expiration or cancellation of a permit, we will treat the unauthorized use as a trespass. Unless we have reason to believe that the permittee is engaged in negotiations with the Indian landowners to obtain a new permit, we will take action to recover possession of the Indian land on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, including
the assessment of civil penalties and costs under subpart I of this part.

# Subpart I—Trespass
§ 166.800
What is trespass?
Under this part, trespass is any unauthorized occupancy, use of, or action on Indian agricultural lands. These provisions also apply to Indian agricultural land managed under an agricultural lease or permit under part 162 of this title.
§ 166.801
What is the BIA's trespass policy?
We will:
(a) Investigate accidental, willful, and/or incidental trespass on Indian agricultural land;
(b) Respond to alleged trespass in a prompt, efficient manner;
(c) Assess trespass penalties for the value of products used or removed, cost of damage to the Indian agricultural land, and enforcement costs incurred as a consequence of the trespass.
(d) Ensure that damage to Indian agricultural lands resulting from trespass is rehabilitated and stabilized at the expense of the trespasser.
§ 166.802
Who can enforce this subpart?
(a) The BIA enforces the provisions of this subpart. If the tribe adopts the provisions of this subpart, the tribe will have concurrent jurisdiction to enforce this subpart. Additionally, if the tribe so requests, we will defer to tribal prosecution of trespass on Indian agricultural lands.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to diminish the sovereign authority of Indian tribes with respect to trespass.

# Notification
§ 166.803
How are trespassers notified of a trespass determination?
(a) Unless otherwise provided under tribal law, when we have reason to believe that a trespass on Indian agricultural land has occurred, within five business days, we or the authorized tribal representative will provide written notice to the alleged trespasser, the possessor of trespass property, any known lien holder, and beneficial Indian landowner, as appropriate. The written notice will include the following:
(1) The basis for the trespass determination;
(2) A legal description of where the trespass occurred;
(3) A verification of ownership of unauthorized property (
e.g.,
brands in the State Brand Book for cases of livestock trespass, if applicable);
(4) Corrective actions that must be taken;
(5) Time frames for taking the corrective actions;
(6) Potential consequences and penalties for failure to take corrective action; and
(7) A statement that unauthorized livestock or other property may not be removed or disposed of unless authorized by us.
(b) If we determine that the alleged trespasser or possessor of trespass property is unknown or refuses delivery of the written notice, a public trespass notice will be posted at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and published in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring.
(c) Trespass notices under this subpart are not subject to appeal under 25 CFR part 2.
§ 166.804
What can I do if I receive a trespass notice?
If you receive a trespass notice, you will within the time frame specified in the notice:
(a) Comply with the ordered corrective actions; or
(b) Contact us in writing to explain why the trespass notice is in error. You may contact us by telephone but any explanation of trespass you wish to provide must be in writing. If we determine that we issued the trespass notice in error, we will withdraw the notice.
§ 166.805
How long will a written trespass notice remain in effect?
A written trespass notice will remain in effect for the same conduct identified in that written notice for a period of one year from the date of receipt of the written notice by the trespasser.

# Actions
§ 166.806
What actions does the BIA take against trespassers?
If the trespasser fails to take the corrective action specified by us, we may take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate:
(a) Seize, impound, sell or dispose of unauthorized livestock or other property involved in the trespass. We may keep such property we seize for use as evidence.
(b) Assess penalties, damages, and costs, under § 166.812 of this subpart.
§ 166.807
When will we impound unauthorized livestock or other property?
We will impound unauthorized livestock or other property under the following conditions:
(a) Where there is imminent danger of severe injury to growing or harvestable crop or destruction of the range forage.
(b) When the known owner or the owner's representative of the unauthorized livestock or other property refuses to accept delivery of a written notice of trespass and the unauthorized livestock or other property are not removed within the period prescribed in the written notice.
(c) Any time after five days of providing notice of impoundment if you failed to correct the trespass.
§ 166.808
How are trespassers notified if their unauthorized livestock or other property are to be impounded?
(a) If the trespass is not corrected in the time specified in the initial trespass notice, we will send written notice of our intent to impound unauthorized livestock or other property to the unauthorized livestock or property owner or representative, and any known lien holder of the unauthorized livestock or other property.
(b) If we determine that the owner of the unauthorized livestock or other property or the owner's representative is unknown or refuses delivery of the written notice, we will post a public notice of intent to impound at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and published in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring.
(c) After we have given notice as described above, we will impound unauthorized livestock or other property without any further notice.
§ 166.809
What happens after my unauthorized livestock or other property are impounded?
Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock or other property, we will provide notice that we will sell the impounded property as follows:
(a) We will provide written notice of the sale to the owner, the owner's representative, and any known lien holder. The written notice must include the procedure by which the impounded property may be redeemed prior to the sale.
(b) We will provide public notice of sale of impounded property by posting at the tribal community building, U.S. Post Office, and publishing in the local newspaper nearest to the Indian agricultural lands where the trespass is occurring. The public notice will include a description of the impounded property, and the date, time, and place of the public sale. The sale date must be at least five days after the publication and posting of notice.
§ 166.810
How do I redeem my impounded livestock or other property?
You may redeem impounded livestock or other property by submitting proof of ownership and paying all penalties, damages, and costs under § 166.812 of this subpart and completing all corrective actions identified by us under § 166.804 of this subpart.
§ 166.811
How will the sale of impounded livestock or other property be conducted?
(a) Unless the owner or known lien holder of the impounded livestock or other property redeems the property prior to the time set by the sale, by submitting proof of ownership and settling all obligations under § 166.804 and § 166.812 of this subpart, the property will be sold by public sale to the highest bidder.
(b) If a satisfactory bid is not received, the livestock or property may be re-offered for sale, returned to the
owner, condemned and destroyed, or otherwise disposed of.
(c) We will give the purchaser a bill of sale or other written receipt evidencing the sale.

# Penalties, Damages, and Costs
§ 166.812
What are the penalties, damages, and costs payable by trespassers on Indian agricultural land?
Trespassers on Indian agricultural land must pay the following penalties and costs:
(a) Collection of the value of the products illegally used or removed plus a penalty of double their values;
(b) Costs associated with any damage to Indian agricultural land and/or property;
(c) The costs associated with enforcement of the regulations, including field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and reports, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs, and attorney fees;
(d) Expenses incurred in gathering, impounding, caring for, and disposal of livestock in cases which necessitate impoundment under § 166.807 of this subpart; and
(e) All other penalties authorized by law.
§ 166.813
How will the BIA determine the value of forage or crops consumed or destroyed?
We will determine the value of forage or crops consumed or destroyed based upon the average rate received per month for comparable property or grazing privileges, or the estimated commercial value or replacement costs of such products or property.
§ 166.814
How will the BIA determine the value of the products or property illegally used or removed?
We will determine the value of the products or property illegally used or removed based upon a valuation of similar products or property.
§ 166.815
How will the BIA determine the amount of damages to Indian agricultural land?
We will determine the damages by considering the costs of rehabilitation and revegetation, loss of future revenue, loss of profits, loss of productivity, loss of market value, damage to other resources, and other factors.
§ 166.816
How will the BIA determine the costs associated with enforcement of the trespass?
Costs of enforcement may include detection and all actions taken by us through prosecution and collection of damages. This includes field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation assistance and report preparation, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs, attorney fees, and other costs.
§ 166.817
What happens if I do not pay the assessed penalties, damages and costs?
Unless otherwise provided by applicable tribal law:
(a) We will refuse to issue you a permit for use, development, or occupancy of Indian agricultural lands; and
(b) We will forward your case for appropriate legal action.
§ 166.818
How are the proceeds from trespass distributed?
Unless otherwise provided by tribal law:
(a) We will treat any amounts recovered under § 166.812 of this subpart as proceeds from the sale of agricultural property from the Indian agricultural land upon which the trespass occurred.
(b) Proceeds recovered under § 166.812 of this subpart may be distributed to:
(1) Repair damages of the Indian agricultural land and property;
(2) Reimburse the affected parties, including the permittee for loss due to the trespass, as negotiated and provided in the permit; and
(3) Reimburse for costs associated with the enforcement of this subpart.
(c) If any money is left over after the distribution of the proceeds described in paragraph (b) of this section, we will return it to the trespasser or, where we cannot identify the owner of the impounded property within 180 days, we will deposit the net proceeds of the sale into the accounts of the landowners where the trespass occurred.
§ 166.819
What happens if the BIA does not collect enough money to satisfy the penalty?
We will send written notice to the trespasser demanding immediate settlement and advising the trespasser that unless settlement is received within five business days from the date of receipt, we will forward the case for appropriate legal action. We may send a copy of the notice to the Indian landowner, permittee, and any known lien holders.

# Subpart J—Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
§ 166.900
How are the Indian agriculture education programs operated?
(a) The purpose of the Indian agriculture education programs is to recruit and develop promising Indian and Alaska Natives who are enrolled in secondary schools, tribal or Alaska Native community colleges, and other post-secondary schools for employment as professional resource managers and other agriculture-related professionals by approved organizations.
(b) We will operate the student educational employment program as part of our Indian agriculture education programs in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR 213.3202(a) and (b).
(c) We will establish an education committee to coordinate and carry out the agriculture education assistance programs and to select participants for all agriculture education assistance programs. The committee will include at least one Indian professional educator in the field of natural resources or agriculture, a personnel specialist, a representative of the Intertribal Agriculture Council, and a natural resources or agriculture professional from the BIA and a representative from American Indian Higher Education Consortium. The committee's duties will include the writing of a manual for the Indian and Alaska Native Agriculture Education and Assistance Programs.
(d) We will monitor and evaluate the agriculture education assistance programs to ensure that there are adequate Indian and Alaska Native natural resources and agriculture-related professionals to manage Indian natural resources and agriculture programs by or for tribes and Alaska Native Corporations. We will identify the number of participants in the intern, student educational employment program, scholarship, and outreach programs; the number of participants who completed the requirements to become a natural resources or agriculture-related professional; and the number of participants completing advanced degree requirements.
§ 166.901
How will the BIA select an agriculture intern?
(a) The purpose of the agriculture intern program is to ensure the future participation of trained, professional Indians and Alaska Natives in the management of Indian and Alaska Native agricultural land. In keeping with this purpose, we will work with tribes and Alaska Natives:
(1) To obtain the maximum degree of participation from Indians and Alaska Natives in the agriculture intern program;
(2) To encourage agriculture interns to complete an undergraduate degree program in natural resources or agriculture-related field; and
(3) To create an opportunity for the advancement of natural resources and agriculture-related technicians to professional resource management positions with the BIA, other federal agencies providing an agriculture service to their respective tribe, a tribe, or tribal agriculture enterprise.
(b) Subject to restrictions imposed by agency budgets, we will establish and maintain in the BIA at least 20 positions for the agriculture intern program. All Indians and Alaska Natives who satisfy the qualification criteria may compete for positions.
(c) Applicants for intern positions must meet the following criteria:
(1) Be eligible for Indian preference as defined in 25 CFR part 5;
(2) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(3) Be able to successfully complete the intern program within a three-year period; and
(4) Possess a letter of acceptance to an accredited post-secondary school or
demonstrate that one will be sent within 90 days.
(d) We will advertise vacancies for agriculture intern positions semi-annually, no later than the first day of April and October, to accommodate entry into school.
(e) In selecting agriculture interns, we will seek to identify candidates who:
(1) Have the greatest potential for success in the program;
(2) Will take the shortest time period to complete the intern program; and
(3) Provide the letter of acceptance required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(f) Agriculture interns must:
(1) Maintain full-time status in an agriculture-related curriculum at an accredited post-secondary school;
(2) Maintain good academic standing;
(3) Enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional resource manager or agriculture-related professional with an approved organization for one year in exchange for each year in the program; and
(4) Report for service with the approved organization during any break in attendance at school of more than three weeks.
(g) The education committee will evaluate annually the performance of the agriculture intern program participants against requirements to ensure that they are satisfactorily progressing toward completion of program requirements.
(h) We will pay all costs for tuition, books, fees, and living expenses incurred by an agriculture intern while attending an accredited post-secondary school.
§ 166.902
How can I become an agriculture educational employment student?
(a) To be considered for selection, applicants for the student educational employment program must:
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements in 5 CFR part 308; and
(2) Be accepted into or enrolled in a course of study at an accredited post-secondary institution which grants degrees in natural resources or agriculture-related curricula.
(b) Student educational employment steering committees established at the field level will select program participants based on eligibility requirements without regard to applicants' financial needs.
(c) A recipient of assistance under the student educational employment program will be required to enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a natural resources or agriculture-related professional with an approved organization for one year in exchange for each year in the program.
(d) We will pay all costs of tuition, books, fees, and transportation to and from the job site to school, for an Indian or Alaska Native student who is selected for the cooperative education program.
§ 166.903
How can I get an agriculture scholarship?
(a) We may grant agriculture scholarships to Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled as full-time students in accredited post-secondary and graduate programs of study in natural resources and agriculture-related curricula.
(b) The education committee established in § 166.900(c) of this subpart will select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section without regard to applicants' financial needs or past scholastic achievements.
(c) Recipients of scholarships must reapply annually to continue to receive funding beyond the initial award period. Students who have received scholarships in past years, are in good academic standing, and have been recommended for continuation by their academic institution will be given priority over new applicants for scholarship assistance.
(d) The amount of scholarship funds an individual is awarded each year will be contingent upon the availability of funds appropriated each fiscal year and is subject to yearly change.
(e) Preparatory scholarships may be available for a maximum of three academic years of general, undergraduate course work leading to a degree in natural resources or agriculture-related curricula and may be awarded to individuals who:
(1) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and
(2) Are enrolled and in good academic standing at an acceptable post-secondary school.
(f) Undergraduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years and may be awarded to individuals who:
(1) Have completed a minimum of 55 semester hours toward a bachelor's degree in a natural resources or agriculture-related curriculum; and
(2) Have been accepted into a natural resource or agriculture-related degree-granting program at an accredited college or university.
(g) Graduate scholarships are available for a maximum of five academic years for individuals selected into the graduate program of an accredited college or university that grants advanced degrees in natural resources or agriculture-related fields.
(h) A recipient of assistance under the scholarship program must enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a natural resources or agriculture-related professional with the BIA, other federal agency providing assistance to their respective tribe, a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or an ANCSA Corporation for one year for each year in the program.
(i) We will pay all scholarships approved by the education committee established in § 166.900 of this subpart for which funding is available.
§ 166.904
What is agriculture education outreach?
(a) We will establish and maintain an agriculture education outreach program for Indian and Alaska Native youth that will:
(1) Encourage students to acquire academic skills needed to succeed in post-secondary mathematics and science courses;
(2) Promote agriculture career awareness;
(3) Involve students in projects and activities oriented to agriculture related professions early so students realize the need to complete required pre-college courses; and
(4) Integrate Indian and Alaska Native agriculture program activities into the education of Indian and Alaska Native students.
(b) We will develop and carry out the program in consultation with appropriate community education organizations, tribes, ANCSA Corporations, Alaska Native organizations, and other federal agencies providing agriculture services to Indians.
(c) The education committee established under § 166.900(c) of this subpart will coordinate and implement the program nationally.
§ 166.905
Who can get assistance for postgraduate studies?
(a) The purpose of the postgraduate studies program is to enhance the professional and technical knowledge of Indian and Alaska Native natural resource and agriculture-related professionals working for an approved organization so that the best possible service is provided to Indian and Alaska Natives.
(b) We may pay the cost of tuition, fees, books, and salary of Alaska Natives and Indians who are employed by an approved organization and who wish to pursue advanced levels of education in natural resource or agriculture-related fields.
(c) The goal of the advanced study program is to encourage participants to obtain additional academic credentials such as a degree or diploma in a natural resources or agriculture-related field. Requirements of the postgraduate study program are:
(1) The duration of course work cannot be less than one semester or more than three years; and
(2) Students in the postgraduate studies program must meet performance standards as required by the graduate school offering the study program.
(d) Program applicants must submit application packages to the education committee. At a minimum, such packages must contain a resume and an endorsement signed by the applicant's supervisor clearly stating the need for and benefits of the desired training.
(e) The education committee must use the following criteria to select participants:
(1) Need for the expertise sought at both the local and national levels;
(2) Expected benefits, both locally and nationally; and
(3) Years of experience and the service record of the employee.
(f) Program participants will enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a natural resources or agriculture-related professional with an approved organization for one year for each year in the program. We may reduce the obligated service requirement if the employee receives supplemental funding such as research grants, scholarships, or graduate stipends and, as a result, reduces the need for financial assistance under this part. If the obligated service agreement is breached, we will collect the amount owed us in accordance with § 166.910 of this subpart.
§ 166.906
What can happen if we recruit you after graduation?
(a) The purpose of the post graduation recruitment program is to recruit Indian and Alaska Native natural resource and trained agriculture technicians into the agriculture programs of approved organizations.
(b) We may assume outstanding student loans from established lending institutions of Indian and Alaska Native natural resources and agriculture technicians who have successfully completed a post-secondary natural resources or agriculture-related curriculum at an accredited institution.
(c) Indian and Alaska Natives receiving benefits under this program will enter into an obligated service agreement in accordance with § 166.901 of this subpart. Obligated service required under this program will be one year for every $5,000 of student loan debt repaid.
(d) If the obligated service agreement is breached, we will collect student loan(s) in accordance with § 166.910 of this subpart.
§ 166.907
Who can be an intern?
(a) Natural resources or agriculture personnel working for an approved organization may apply for an internship within agriculture-related programs of agencies of the Department of the Interior or other federal agencies providing an agriculture service to their respective reservations.
(b) Natural resources or agriculture-related personnel from other Department of the Interior agencies may apply through proper channels for “internships” within the BIA's agriculture programs. With the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, the BIA can arrange for an Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignment in tribal or Alaska Native agriculture programs.
(c) Natural resources and agriculture personnel from agencies not within the Department of the Interior may apply, through proper agency channels and pursuant to an interagency agreement, for an “internship” within the BIA and, with the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, we can facilitate an Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignment in a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation.
(d) Natural resources or agriculture personnel from a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation may apply, through proper channels and pursuant to a cooperative agreement, for an internship within another tribe, tribal forest enterprise, or ANCSA Corporation agriculture program.
(e) The employing agency of participating federal employees will provide for the continuation of salary and benefits.
(f) The host agency for participating tribal, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation agriculture employees will provide for salaries and benefits.
(g) A bonus pay incentive, up to 25 percent (%) of the intern's base salary, may be provided to intergovernmental interns at the conclusion of the internship period. Bonus pay incentives will be at the discretion of and funded by the host organization and must be conditioned upon the host agency's documentation of the intern's superior performance, in accordance with the agency's performance standards, during the internship period.
§ 166.908
Who can participate in continuing education and training?
(a) The purpose of continuing education and training is to establish a program to provide for the ongoing
education and training of natural resources and agriculture personnel employed by approved organizations. This program will emphasize continuing education and training in three areas:
(1) Orientation training including tribal-federal relations and responsibilities;
(2) Technical agriculture education; and
(3) Developmental training in agriculture-based enterprises and marketing.
(b) We will maintain an orientation program to increase awareness and understanding of Indian culture and its effect on natural resources management and agriculture practices and on federal laws that effect natural resources management and agriculture operations and administration in the Indian agriculture program.
(c) We will maintain a continuing technical natural resources and agriculture education program to assist natural resources managers and agriculture-related professionals to perform natural resources and agriculture management on Indian land.
(d) We will maintain an agriculture land-based enterprise and marketing training program to assist with the development and use of Indian and Alaska Native agriculture resources.
§ 166.909
What are my obligations to the BIA after I participate in an agriculture education program?
(a) Individuals completing agriculture education programs with an obligated service requirement may be offered full time permanent employment with an approved organization to fulfill their obligated service within 90 days of the date all program education requirements have been completed. If employment is not offered within the 90-day period, the student will be relieved of obligated service requirements. Not less than 30 days before the start of employment, the employer must notify the participant of the work assignment, its location and the date work must begin. If the employer is other than the BIA, the employer must also notify us.
(b) Employment time that can be credited toward obligated service requirement will begin the day after all program education requirements have been completed, with the exception of the agriculture intern program which includes the special provisions outlined in § 166.901(f)(4) of this subpart. The minimum service obligation period will be one year of full time employment.
(c) The employer has the right to designate the location of employment for fulfilling the service obligation.
(d) A participant in any of the agriculture education programs with an obligated service requirement may, within 30 days of completing all program education requirements, request a deferment of obligated service to pursue postgraduate or post-doctoral studies. In such cases, we will issue a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for deferral. We may grant such a request; however, deferments granted in no way waive or otherwise affect obligated service requirements.
(e) A participant in any of the agriculture education programs with an obligated service requirement may, within 30 days of completing all program education requirements, request a waiver of obligated service based on personal or family hardship. We may grant a full or partial waiver or deny the request for wavier. In such cases, we will issue a decision within 30 days of receiving the request for waiver.
§ 166.910
What happens if I do not fulfill my obligation to the BIA?
(a) Any individual who accepts financial support under agriculture education programs with an obligated service requirement, and who does not accept employment or unreasonably terminates employment must repay us in accordance with the following table:
If you are...
Then the costs that you must repay are...
And then the costs that you do not need to repay are...
(1) Agriculture intern
Living allowance, tuition, books, and fees received while occupying position plus interest
Salary paid during school breaks or when recipient was employed by an approved organization.
(2) Cooperative education
Tuition, books, and fees plus interest
(3) Scholarship
Costs of scholarship plus interest
(4) Post graduation recruitment
All student loans assumed by us under the program plus interest
(5) Postgraduate studies
Living allowance, tuition, books, and fees received while in the program plus interest
Salary paid during school breaks or when recipient was employed by an approved organization.
(b) For agriculture education programs with an obligated service requirement, we will adjust the amount required for repayment by crediting toward the final amount of debt any obligated service performed before breach of contract.

# Subpart K—Records
§ 166.1000
Who owns the records associated with this part?
(a) Records are the property of the United States if they:
(1) Are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of a federal trust function under 25 U.S.C. § 450f
et seq.,
including the operation of a trust program; and
(2) Evidence the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a federal trust function under this part.
(b) Records not covered by paragraph (a) of this section that are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part are the property of the tribe.
§ 166.1001
How must a records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Any organization, including tribes and tribal organizations, that have records identified in § 166.1000(a) of this part must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. Chapters 29, 31 and 33. These records and related records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act are subject to inspection by the Secretary and the Archivist of the United States.
(b) A tribe or tribal organization should preserve the records identified in § 166.1000(b) of this part for the period of time authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records in accordance with 44 U.S.C. Chapter 33. If a tribe or tribal organization does not preserve records associated with its conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part, it may prevent the tribe or tribal organization from being able to adequately document essential transactions or furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights or those of persons directly affected by its activities.
Pt. 167

# PART 167—NAVAJO GRAZING REGULATIONS
Sec.
167.1
Authority.
167.2
General regulations.
167.3
Objectives.
167.4
Regulations; scope; exceptions.
167.5
Land management districts.
167.6
Carrying capacities.
167.7
Records.
167.8
Grazing rights.
167.9
Grazing permits.
167.10
Special grazing permits.
167.11
Tenure of grazing permits.
167.12
Grazing fees.
167.13
Trespass.
167.14
Movement of livestock.
167.15
Control of livestock disease and introduction of livestock.
167.16
Fences.
167.17
Construction near permanent livestock water developments.

# Authority:
R.S. 465, 2117, as amended, sec. 3, 26 Stat. 795, sec. 1, 28 Stat. 305, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 9, 179, 397, 345, 402.

# Source:
22 FR 10578, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 167.1
Authority.
It is within the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to protect Indian tribal lands against waste. Subject to regulations of this part, the right exists for Indian tribes to authorize the granting of permits upon their tribal
lands and to prescribe by appropriate tribal action the conditions under which their lands may be used.
§ 167.2
General regulations.
Part 166 of this subchapter authorizes the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to regulate the grazing of livestock on Indian lands under conditions set forth therein. In accordance with this authority and that of the Navajo Tribal Council, the Central Grazing Committee and the District Grazing Committees, the grazing of livestock on the Navajo Reservation shall be governed by the regulations in this part.
§ 167.3
Objectives.
It is the purpose of the regulations in this part to aid the Navajo Indians in achievement of the following objectives:
(a) The preservation of the forage, the land, and the water resources on the Navajo Reservation, and the building up of those resources where they have deteriorated.
(b) The protection of the interests of the Navajo Indians from the encroachment of unduly aggressive and anti-social individuals who may or may not be members of the Navajo Tribe.
(c) The adjustment of livestock numbers to the carrying capacity of the range in such a manner that the livestock economy of the Navajo Tribe will be preserved.
(d) To secure increasing responsibility and participation of the Navajo people, including tribal participation in all basic policy decisions, in the sound management of one of the Tribe's greatest assets, its grazing lands, and to foster a better relationship and a clearer understanding between the Navajo people and the Federal Government in carrying out the grazing regulations.
(e) The improvement of livestock through proper breeding practices and the maintenance of a sound culling policy. Buck and bull pastures may be established and maintained either on or off the reservation through District Grazing Committee and Central Grazing Committee action.
§ 167.4
Regulations; scope; exceptions.
The grazing regulations in this part apply to all lands within the boundaries of the Navajo Reservation held in trust by the United States for the Navajo Tribe and all the trust lands hereafter added to the Navajo Reservation. The regulations in this part do not apply to any of the area described in the Executive order of December 16, 1882, to individually owned allotted lands within the Navajo Reservation nor to tribal purchases, allotted or privately owned Navajo Indian lands outside the exterior boundaries of the Navajo Reservation.
[34 FR 14599, Sept. 19, 1969. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 167.5
Land management districts.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs has established and will retain the present land management districts within the Navajo Indian Reservation, based on the social and economic requirements of the Navajo Indians and the necessity of rehabilitating the grazing lands. District boundary changes may be made when deemed necessary and advisable by the District Grazing Committees, Central Grazing Committee and Tribal Council, with approval by the Superintendent, Area Director, and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
§ 167.6
Carrying capacities.
(a) The Commissioner of Indian Affairs on June 26, 1943, promulgated the authorized carrying capacity for each land management district of the Navajo Reservation.
(b) Recommended adjustments in carrying capacities shall be referred by the Superintendent to District Grazing Committee, Central Grazing Committee, and the Navajo Tribal Council for review and recommendations prior to presentation to the Area Director and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for approval.
(c) Upon the request of the District Grazing Committee, Central Grazing Committee and Navajo Tribal Council to the Superintendent; recommendations for future adjustments to the established carrying capacities shall be made by Range Technicians based on
the best information available through annual utilization studies and range condition studies analyzed along with numbers of livestock and precipitation data. The recommendations of the Range Technicians shall be submitted to the Superintendent, the Area Director and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
(d) Carrying capacities shall be stated in terms of sheep units yearlong, in the ratio of horses, mules, and burros 1 to 5; cattle 1 to 4; goats 1 to 1. The latter figure in each case denotes sheep units. Sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules, and burros one year of age or older shall be counted against the carrying capacity.
§ 167.7
Records.
The District Grazing Committee, the Superintendent, and his authorized representatives shall keep accurate records of all grazing permits and ownership of all livestock. Master files shall be maintained by the Superintendent or his authorized representatives.
(a) The District Grazing Committee shall be responsible for and assist in organizing the sheep and goat dipping and horse and cattle branding program and obtaining the annual live- stock count.
(b) In order to obtain true records of ownership the permittee shall personally appear at the dipping vat or tallying point designated by the Grazing Committee with his or her sheep and goats and at branding and tallying points for cattle and horses. Should the permittee be unable to appear personally he or she shall designate a representative to act for and in his or her behalf. The sheep and goats will be dipped and the cattle and horses will be branded and recorded in the name of the permittee.
(c) The Superintendent shall prepare and keep current a register containing the names of all permittees using the range, the number of each class of stock by age classes grazed annually and the periods during which grazing shall be permitted in each part thereof. An annual stock census will be taken to insure that the carrying capacity is not exceeded. All classes of livestock twelve months of age or over will be counted against range use and permitted number, except that yearling colts will not be counted against permitted numbers on all permits with less than six horses. (Cross Reference § 167.9.)
§ 167.8
Grazing rights.
(a) The Superintendent shall determine grazing rights of bona fide live-stock owners based on recommendations of District Grazing Committees. Grazing rights shall be recognized for those permittees having ownership records as established in accordance with § 167.7 or who have acquired grazing rights by marriage, inheritance, purchase or division of permits. Whenever the permitted number of sheep units within a district is less than the carrying capacity, new permits to the carrying capacity limit may be granted as provided in § 167.9.
(b) All enrolled members of the Navajo Tribe over 18 years of age are eligible to acquire and hold grazing permits. Minors under 18 years of age can get possession of grazing permits only through inheritance or gift, and in each case Trustees must be appointed by the Tribal Courts to manage the permits and livestock of such minors until they become 18 years of age and can hold grazing permits in their own right.
(c) No person can hold a grazing permit in more than one district on the Navajo Reservation.
(d) Determination of rights to grazing permits involved in cases of divorce, separation, threatened family disruption, and permits of deceased permittees shall be the responsibility of the Navajo Court of Indian Offenses under existing laws, rules, and regulations.
§ 167.9
Grazing permits.
(a) All livestock grazed on the Navajo Reservation must be covered by an authorized grazing permit issued by the Superintendent based upon the recommendations of the District Grazing Committee. All such grazing permits will be automatically renewed annually until terminated. District Grazing Committees shall act on all grazing permit changes resulting from negotiability within their respective Districts.
The number of livestock that may be grazed under each permit shall be the number originally permitted plus or minus any changes as indicated by Transfer Agreements and Court Judgment Orders.
(b) Any permittee who has five or more horses on his current permit will be required to apply any acquired sheep units in classes of stock other than horses. If the purchaser wishes more than his present number of horses, he must have his needs evaluated by the District Grazing Committee. Yearling colts will be counted against permitted number on all permits with six or more horses. Yearling colts will not be counted against permitted number on all permits with less than six horses. In hardship cases the District Grazing Committee may reissue horses removed from grazing permits through negotiability to permit holders who are without sufficient horses on their present permits to meet minimum needs.
(c) No permittee shall be authorized to graze more than ten head of horses or to accumulate a total of over 350 sheep units.
(d) Upon recommendation of the District Grazing Committee and with the approval of the Superintendent, grazing permits may be transferred from one permittee to another in accordance with instructions provided by the Advisory Committee of the Navajo Tribal Council, or may be inherited; provided that the permitted holdings of any individual permittee shall not exceed 350 sheep units or the equivalent thereof. Should inheritance or other acquisition of permits increase the holdings of any permittee to more than 350 sheep units, said permittee shall dispose of all livestock in excess of 350 sheep units not later than November 15 following date of inheritance or other acquisition, and that portion of his or her permit in excess of 350 sheep units within one year from date of inheritance.
(e) By request of a permittee to sublet all or a part of his or her regular grazing permit to a member of his family or to any person who would receive such permit by inheritance, such subletting of permits may be authorized by the District Grazing Committee and the Superintendent or his authorized representative.
§ 167.10
Special grazing permits.
The problem of special grazing permits shall be settled by the Bureau of Indian Affairs working in cooperation with the Tribal Council, or any Committee designated by it, with a view to terminating these permits at a suitable date and with the least hardship to the Indians concerned.
§ 167.11
Tenure of grazing permits.
(a) All active regular grazing permits shall be for one year and shall be automatically renewed annually until terminated. Any Navajo eligible to hold a grazing permit as defined in § 167.8 may become a livestock operator by obtaining an active grazing permit through negotiability or inheritance or both.
(b) In many Districts, and portions of all districts, unused grazing permits or portions of grazing permits are beneficial in aiding range recovery. Each District Grazing Committee will handle each matter of unused grazing permit or portions of grazing permits on individual merits. Where ample forage is available operators will be encouraged to fill their permits with livestock or dispose of their unused permits through negotiability. In those areas where forage is in need of rehabilitation permittees will not be encouraged to stock to their permitted numbers until the range has sufficiently recovered to justify the grazing of additional livestock.
§ 167.12
Grazing fees.
Grazing fees shall not be charged at this time.
1
1
Grazing Committees were organized in May 1953. These committees have not had ample time to fully acquaint themselves or the stockmen in their respective districts with all of the various items of range administration and range management. Also the drought of several years has not broken. The Navajo Tribe therefore requests that the matter of establishing regulations regarding the adoption of grazing fees be deferred until such a time as a full understanding of the advantages of fees can be had by the majority of the stockmen in all Districts. The assessment of grazing fees will not aid materially
in obtaining proper range use. At this time it is more important that other sections of these grazing regulations be adopted and enforced. Resolution of Navajo Tribal Council No. CJ-22-54 of June 9, 1954.
§ 167.13
Trespass.
The owner of any livestock grazing in trespass in Navajo Tribal ranges shall be subject to action by the Navajo Court of Indian Offenses as provided in part 11 of this chapter, however, upon recommendations of the District Grazing Committee, first offenses may be referred to the Central Grazing Committee and the Superintendent or his authorized representative for proper settlement out of court. The following acts are considered as trespass:
(a) Any person who sells an entire permit must dispose of all his livestock or be in trespass. Any person selling a portion of his permit must not run more stock than covered by his remaining permit, or be subject to immediate trespass.
(b) All persons running livestock in excess of their permitted number must by April 25, 1959, either obtain permits to cover their total livestock numbers or reduce to their permitted number, or be in trespass. Additional time may be granted in unusual individual cases as determined and approved by the District Grazing Committee, General Grazing Committee, and the Superintendent or his authorized representative.
(c) Failure to comply with the provisions in § 167.9, shall be considered as trespass.
(d) Any person who willfully allows his livestock to drift from one district to another shall be subject to trespass action. The grazing of livestock in customary use areas extending over District Boundary lines, when such customary use areas are defined and agreed upon by the District Grazing Committees involved, shall not be considered as willful trespass.
(e) The owner of any livestock who violates the customary or established use units of other permittees shall be subject to trespass action.
[22 FR 10578, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 24 FR 1178, Feb. 17, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 167.14
Movement of livestock.
Annually, prior to the normal lamb buying season, the Central Grazing Committee after consultation with District Grazing Committees shall issue regulations covering the buying period and the procedures and methods to be used in moving livestock to market. All movements of livestock other than trucking from buying areas to loading or shipping points must be authorized by Trailing Permits issued by the District Grazing Committees on the approved forms. Failure to comply with this section and with annual lamb buying regulations will be considered as trespass.
§ 167.15
Control of livestock disease and introduction of livestock.
(a) The District Grazing Committees with the approval of the Superintendent shall require livestock to be dipped, vaccinated, inspected and be restricted in movement when necessary to prevent the introduction and spread of contagious or infectious disease in the economic interest of the Navajo stock owners. Upon the recommendation of the District Grazing Committee livestock shall be dipped annually when such dipping is necessary to prevent the spread of contagious diseases. These annual dippings shall be completed on or before September 1st each year. Livestock, however, may be dipped at other times when necessary. The Superintendent or his authorized representative and the District Grazing Committee may also require the rounding up of cattle, horses, mules, etc., in each District for the purpose of inspection for disease, vaccinating, branding and other related operations.
(b) No livestock shall be brought onto the Reservation without a permit issued by the Superintendent or his authorized representative following inspection, in order to safeguard Indian livestock from infections and contagious disease and to insure the introduction of good quality sires and breeding stock.
(c) Any unusual disease conditions beyond the control measures provided herein shall be immediately reported by the District Grazing Committee to the Chairman of the Navajo Tribal Council and the Superintendent who
shall attempt to obtain specialists and provide emergency funds to control and suppress the disease.
§ 167.16
Fences.
Favorable recommendation from the District Grazing Committee and a written authorization from the Superintendent or his authorized representative must be secured before any fences may be constructed in non-agricultural areas. The District Grazing Committee shall recommend to the Superintendent the removal of unauthorized existing fences, or fences enclosing demonstration areas no longer used as such, if it is determined that such fences interfere with proper range management or an equitable distribution of range privileges. All enclosures fenced for the purpose of protecting agricultural land shall be kept to a size commensurate with the needs for protection of agricultural land and must be enclosed by legal four strand barbed wire fence or the equivalent.
§ 167.17
Construction near permanent livestock water developments.
(a) The District Grazing Committee shall regulate the construction of all dwellings, corrals and other structures within one-half mile of Government or Navajo Tribal developed permanent livestock waters such as springs, wells, and charcos or deep reservoirs.
(b) A written authorization from the District Grazing Committee must be secured before any dwellings, corrals, or other structures may be constructed within one-half mile of Government or Navajo Tribal developed springs, wells and charcos or deep reservoirs.
(c) No sewage disposal system shall be authorized to be built which will drain into springs or stream channels in such a manner that it would cause contamination of waters being used for livestock or human consumption.
Pt. 168

# PART 168—GRAZING REGULATIONS FOR THE HOPI PARTITIONED LANDS AREA
Sec.
168.1
Definitions.
168.2
Authority.
168.3
Purpose.
168.4
Establishment of range units.
168.5
Grazing capacity.
168.6
Grazing on range units authorized by permit.
168.7
Kind of livestock.
168.8
Grazing fees.
168.9
Assignment, modification and cancellation of permits.
168.10
Conservation and land use provisions.
168.11
Range improvements; ownership; new construction.
168.12
Special permit requirements and provisions.
168.13
Fences.
168.14
Livestock trespass.
168.15
Control of livestock diseases and parasites.
168.16
Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.
168.17
Concurrence procedures.
168.18
Appeals.
168.19
Information collection.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 640d-8, and 640d-18.

# Source:
47 FR 39817, Sept. 10, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 168.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Interior or his designee;
(b)
Area Director
means the officer in charge of the Phoenix Bureau of Indian Affairs Area Office (or his successor; and/or his authorized representative) to whom has been delegated the authority of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs to act in all matters pertaining to lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe under its jurisdiction, within the boundaries of the former Joint Use Area.
(c)
Superintendent
means the Superintendent, Hopi Agency or his designee.
(d)
Tribal Government
means the Hopi Tribal Council, or its duly designated representative.
(e)
Project Officer
means the former Special Project Officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Administrative Office, Flagstaff, Arizona 86001, who had been delegated the authority of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to act in matters respecting the former Joint Use Area.
(f)
Former Joint Use Area
means the area established by the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in the case entitled
Healing
v.
Jones,
210 F. Supp. 125 (1962), which is
inside the Executive order area (Executive order of December 16, 1882) but outside Land Management District 6 and which was partitioned by the judgment of partition dated April 18, 1979.
(g)
Hopi Partition Area
means that portion of the Former Joint Use Area which has been added to the Hopi Tribe's reservation.
(h)
Range Unit
means a tract of range land designated as a management unit for administration of grazing.
(i)
Range improvements
means fences, stockwater devices, corrals, trails and other similar devices or practices which are applied to the land to enhance range productivity or usability.
(j)
Permit
means a revocable privilege granted in writing limited to entering on and utilizing forage by domestic livestock on a specified tract of land. The term as used herein shall include written authorizations issued to enable the crossing or trailing of domestic livestock across specified tracts or range units.
(k)
Interim permit
means a permit granted to members of the Navajo tribe residing on Hopi Partitioned Lands who meet the qualifications of § 168.6(b) in accordance with Pub. L. 93-531 as amended.
(l)
Animal unit
(AU) means one adult cow with unweaned calf by her side or equivalent thereof based on comparative forage consumption. Accepted conversion factors are: sheep and goats, one ewe, doe, buck or ram equals 0.25 A.U.; one sheep unit year long (SUYL) equals 0.25 Animal Unit year long; horses and mules, one horse, mule, donkey or burro equals 1.25 A.U.
(m)
Tribe
means the Hopi Tribe including all villages and clans.
(n)
Allocate
means to apportion grazing, including the determination of who may graze livestock, the number and kind of livestock, and the place such livestock will be grazed.
(o)
Person awaiting relocation
means a resident of the Hopi Partitioned Area who meets each of the following criteria:
(1) Is listed on the Bureau of Indian Affairs enumeration (as defined in (q) below);
(2) Has a livestock inventory listed with the project Officer (see (r) below);
(3) Is awaiting relocation under the Settlement Act; and
(4) Was grazing livestock on the date of the entry of the Judgment of Partition, April 18, 1979.
(p)
Carrying capacity
means the maximum stocking rate possible without inducing damage to vegetation or related resources.
(q)
BIA enumeration
means the list of persons living on and improvements located within the former Joint Use Area obtained by interviews by the Project Officer's staff.
(r)
Livestock inventory
means the original list as amended (developed by the Project Officer in 1976-77) of livestock owned by persons having customary grazing use in the former Joint Use Area.
(s)
Settlement Act
means the Act of December 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 1712, as amended.
(t)
Life tenant
means a person who has applied for and been granted a life estate lease pursuant to section 30 of the Settlement Act, 25 U.S.C. 640d-28.
§ 168.2
Authority.
It is within the general authority of the Secretary to protect Indian trust lands against waste and to prescribe rules and regulations under which these lands may be leased or permitted for grazing. Also, under the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Act as amended, 25 U.S.C. 640d-8 and 18, the Secretary is authorized and directed to:
(a) Reduce livestock grazing within the former Joint Use Area to carrying capacity,
(b) Restore the grazing range potential of the resource to maximum grazing extent feasible,
(c) Survey, monument and fence the partition boundary,
(d) Protect the rights and property of individuals awaiting relocation or authorized to reside on life estates, and
(e) To administer conservation practices, including grazing control and range restoration activities on the Hopi Partitioned Lands.
§ 168.3
Purpose.
These regulations are issued to implement the Secretary's responsibilities mandated by the Settlement Act and subsequent U.S. District Court
Judgement filed May 4, 1982, in the case,
Hopi Tribe
v.
Watt,
Civ. No. 81-272 PCT-EHC. This portion of the regulations apply only to lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe within the former Joint Use Area.
§ 168.4
Establishment of range units.
The Area Director will use Soil and Range Inventory data to establish range units on the Hopi Partitioned Area to provide for a surface land management program to restore the land to its full grazing potential and maintain that potential to the maximum extent feasible. The establishment of range units on Hopi Partitioned Lands is subject to the concurrence of the Hopi Tribe in accordance with § 168.17 of these regulations.
§ 168.5
Grazing capacity.
(a) The Area Director shall prescribe the maximum number of each kind of livestock which may be grazed on land under his jurisdiction without inducing damage to vegetation or related resources on each range unit and the season or seasons of use to achieve the objectives of the land recovery program required by the Settlement Act.
(b) The Area Director shall review the stocking rate upon which the grazing permits are issued on a continuing basis and adjust that rate as conditions warrant.
§ 168.6
Grazing on range units authorized by permit.
Grazing use on range units is authorized only by permits granted under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(a)
Grazing permits to Hopi tribal members on their partitioned lands.
The Area Director shall assign grazing privileges to the Hopi Tribe for lands within Hopi Partitioned Lands. The tribal government will then allocate use to their tribal members for permit periods not to exceed five years. Grazing use by Hopi tribal enterprises may be authorized. The Area Director will issue permits based on the determination of the Hopi tribal government.
(b)
Interim Grazing Permit for persons awaiting relocation.
Navajo Tribal members who have maintained both a permanent residence on Hopi Partitioned lands; a livestock inventory since enumeration; and meet all the criteria listed in § 168.1(o), shall be eligible for an interim grazing allocation on Hopi Partitioned Lands under the following terms and conditions:
(1) The Area Director shall first verify that an applicant meets the criteria of the definition in § 168.1(o) and will issue all permits.
(2) The permitted number shall not exceed either (i) 10 SUYL (See § 168.1(1)) for each eligible family member, or (ii) the grazing applicant's livestock inventory reduced by voluntary sales as adjusted by reproduction, in accordance with procedures developed by the Project Officer based upon the study by Stubblefield and Camfield, 1975 page 5. The determination of the person to whom permits will be issued and the number of livestock to be permitted will be based on information provided by the permit applicant and an assessment of the number of dependents residing in the immediate household.
(3) The permit shall authorize grazing for a specific number and kind of animal(s) in a specified range unit. Interim grazing permits will not be issued in excess of one-half the authorized carrying capacity of the Hopi Partition area.
(4) Subject to the provisions of § 168.9(b), permits shall expire when the person awaiting relocation is relocated pursuant to the Settlement Act. No interim permit will be issued for a term greater than one year. Permits may be reissued upon application and redetermination of eligibility. All interim permits will expire at the end of the period provided for completion of relocation, Pub. L. 99-190. When a Navajo permit holder discontinues grazing livestock or reduces the number being grazed whether by reason of his relocating or for any other reason, his grazing permit will be cancelled or reduced and no permit will be issued in lieu thereof. The total number of authorized animal units grazed by the Navajo permit holders awaiting relocation will reduced by the number of animal units authorized under the cancelled or reduced permit.
[47 FR 39817, Sept. 10, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 23052, June 25, 1986]
§ 168.7
Kind of livestock.
Unless determined otherwise by the Area Director for conservation purposes, the Hopi Tribe may determine, subject to the authorized carrying capacity, the kind of livestock that may be grazed by their tribal members on the range units within the Hopi Partitioned Land area.
§ 168.8
Grazing fees.
(a) The rental value of all uses of Hopi Partitioned lands by persons who are not members of the Hopi Tribe, including eligible holders of interim permits, will be determined, and assessed by the Area Director and paid in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 640d-15.
(b) The Hopi Tribe has established an annual grazing fee to be assessed all range users on Hopi Partitioned Lands. The annual Hopi grazing fee shall be paid in full in advance of the annual effective date of the permit, prior to the issuance of a grazing permit. All interim permits will expire at the end of the period provided for completion of relocation, Pub. L. 99-190. Failure of the permittee to make payment in full in advance will be cause to deny issuance of the grazing permit.
[47 FR 39817, Sept. 10, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 23052, June 25, 1986]
§ 168.9
Assignment, modification and cancellation of permits.
(a) Grazing permits to Hopi tribal members shall not be reassigned, subpermitted or transferred without the approval of the permit issuer(s).
(b) The Area Director may revoke or withdraw all or any part of any grazing permit in Hopi Partitioned Lands by cancellation or modification on 30 days written notice of a violation of the permit or special conditions affecting the land or the safety of the livestock thereon, as may result from flood, disaster, drought, contagious diseases, etc. Except in the case of extreme necessity, cancellation or modification shall be effected on the next annual anniversay date of the grazing permit following the date of notice. Revocation or withdrawal of all or any of the grazing permit by cancellation or modification as provided herein is effective on the date the notice of cancellation or modification is received and shall be appealable under 25 CFR
part 2.
§ 168.10
Conservation and land use provisions.
Grazing operations shall be conducted in accordance with recognized principles of good range management. Conservation management plans necessary to accomplish this will be made a part of the grazing permit by stipulation.
§ 168.11
Range improvements; ownership; new construction.
Except as provided by the Relocation Act, range improvements placed on the permitted land shall be considered affixed to the land unless specifically excepted therefrom under the permit terms. Written permission to construct or remove improvements must be obtained from the Hopi Tribe.
§ 168.12
Special permit requirements and provisions.
All grazing permits shall contain the following provisions:
(a) Because the lands covered by the permit are in trust status, all of the permittees' obligations on the permit and the obligations of his sureties are to the United States as well as to the beneficial owners of the lands.
(b) The permittee agrees he will not use, cause, or allow to be used any part of the permitted area for any unlawful conduct or purpose.
(c) The permit authorizes only the grazing of livestock.
§ 168.13
Fences.
Fencing will be erected by the Federal Government around the perimeter of the 1882 Executive Order Area, Land Management District 6, and on the boundary of the former Joint Use Area partitioned to each tribe by the Judgment of Partition of April 18, 1979. Fencing of other areas in the former Joint Use Area will be required for a range recovery program in accordance with the range units established under § 168.4. Such fencing shall be erected at Government expense and ownership shall be clearly identified by appropriate posting on the fencing. Intentional destruction of Federal property
will be treated as a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1164.
§ 168.14
Livestock trespass.
The owner of any livestock grazing in trespass on the Hopi Partitioned Lands Area is liable to a civil penalty of $1 per head per day for each animal in trespass, together with the replacement value of the forage consumed and a reasonable value for damages to property injured or destroyed. The Superintendent may take appropriate action to collect all such penalties and damages and seek injunctive relief when appropriate. All payments for such penalties and damages shall be credited to the Tribe. The following acts are prohibited:
(a) The grazing upon or driving across any of the Hopi Partitioned Lands of any livestock without an approved grazing or crossing permit;
(b) Allowing livestock to drift and graze on lands without an approved permit;
(c) The grazing of livestock upon lands within an area closed to grazing of that class of livestock;
(d) The grazing of livestock by permittees upon any land withdrawn from use for grazing purpose to protect it from damage, after the receipt of notice from the Area Director; and
(e) Grazing livestock in excess of those numbers and kinds authorized on a livestock grazing permit approved by the Area Director.
§ 168.15
Control of livestock diseases and parasites.
Whenever livestock within the Hopi Partitioned Lands become infected with contagious or infectious diseases or parasites or have been exposed thereto, such livestock must be treated and the movement thereof restricted in accordance with applicable laws.
§ 168.16
Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.
Unauthorized livestock within any range unit of the Hopi Partitioned Lands which are not removed therefrom within the periods prescribed by the regulation will be impounded and disposed of by the Superintendent as provided herein.
(a) When the Area Director determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring and has definite knowledge of the kind of unauthorized livestock, and knows the name and address of the owners, such livestock may be impounded any time five days after written notice of intent to impound unauthorized livestock is mailed by certified mail or personally delivered to such owners or their agent.
(b) When the Area Director determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring but does not have complete knowledge of the number and class of livestock or if the name and address of the owner thereof are unknown, such livestock will be impounded anytime 15 days after the date of a General Notice of Intent to Impound unauthorized livestock is first published in the local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts.
(c) Unauthorized livestock on the Hopi Partitioned Lands which are owned by persons given notice under paragraph (a) of this section, and any unauthorized livestock in areas for which a notice has been posted and published under paragraph (b) of this section, will be impounded without further notice anytime within the twelve-month period immediately following the effective date of the notice.
(d) Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock a notice of sale of impounded livestock will be published in the local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts. The notice will describe the livestock and specify the date, time and place of sale. The date set shall be at least 5 days after the publication and posting of such notice.
(e) The owners or their agent may redeem the livestock anytime before the time set for the sale by submitting proof of ownership and paying for all expenses incurred in gathering, impounding and feeding or pasturing the livestock and any trespass fees and/or damages caused by the animals.
(f) Livestock erroneously impounded shall be returned to the rightful owner and all expenses accruing thereto shall be waived.
(g) If the livestock are not redeemed before the time fixed for their sale, they shall be sold at public sale to the highest bidder, provided his bid is at or above the minimum amount set by the Superintendent based upon U.S.D.A.'s current Agricultural Statistic's Report for Arizona. If a bid at or above the minimum is not received the livestock may be sold at private sale at or above the minimum amount, reoffered at public sale, condemned and destroyed, or otherwise disposed of. When livestock are sold pursuant to this regulation, the superintendent shall furnish the buyer a bill of sale or other written instrument evidencing the sale.
(h) The proceeds of any sale of impounded livestock shall be applied as follows:
(1) To the payment of all expenses incurred by the United States in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock;
(2) In payment of any penalties or damages assessed pursuant to § 168.14 of this part which penalties or damages shall be credited to the Hopi tribe as provided in said section;
(3) Any remaining amount shall be paid over to the owner of said livestock upon his submitting proof of ownership.
Any proceeds remaining after payment of the first and second items noted above not claimed with one year from the date of sale, will be credited to the Hopi Tribe.
§ 168.17
Concurrence procedures.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section, terms shall have the meaning set forth as follows:
(1)
Concurrence
means agreement by the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe, speaking through the Chairman of the Tribe (or his designee).
(2)
Non-concurrence
means disagreement between the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe, speaking through the Chairman of the Hopi Tribe (or his designee), or a failure of the Hopi Tribe to respond to a proposal by the Area Director in a timely manner.
(3)
Timely manner
means a period of thirty days, unless this period is shortened by the existence of an emergency. Upon request by the Tribal Council, the Area Director may extend the 30 day period. In instances where this period applies to the Area Director, he may extend the period by so notifying the Tribe.
(4)
An emergency
is a condition that the Area Director finds threatens the rights and property of life tenants and persons awaiting relocation or one that the Area Director finds is causing the condition of the range land to deteriorate.
(5)
Conservation practice
is a program consisting of a series of acts in conformance with the Bureau's range management policies and procedures which maintains or seeks to achieve the grazing potential of range lands on a continuing basis.
(6)
Range restoration activities
is a program consisting of a series of range management acts, including but not limited to procedures which increase range forage production, reduce erosion, improve range usability and reduce stocking by issuing grazing permits to persons residing on Hopi partitioned lands at rates which maximize the carrying capacity of the range lands on a continuing basis.
(7)
Grazing control
is a program consisting of a series of range management acts, including but not limited to procedures by which grazing permits are issued to persons residing on Hopi partitioned lands, which limit the grazing on range lands to its carrying capacity.
(b) The Area Director will seek the participation of the Hopi Tribe in his investigation, formulation and planning of conservation practices for Hopi partitioned lands. The Area Director will submit, in writing, the proposed plan to the Hopi Tribe.
(c) Upon receipt of the Area Director's proposed conservation practices, the Hopi Tribe will deliver, in writing, to the Area Director its concurrence or non-concurrence on all of the proposed conservation practices in a timely manner. The Area Director will continue to seek Hopi Tribal participation during the review process.
(d) Concurrence of the Hopi Tribe will be sought on all conservation practices, range restoration activities, and grazing control programs on the Hopi Partitioned Lands.
(1) If the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe concur on all or part of the proposed conservation practices in writing in a timely manner, those practices concurred upon may be immediately implemented.
(2) If the Hopi Tribe does not concur on all or part of the proposed conservation practices in a timely manner, the Area Director will submit in writing to the Hopi Tribe a declaration of non-concurrence. The Area Director will then notify the Hopi Tribe in writing of a formal hearing to be held not sooner than 15 days from the date of the non-concurrence declaration.
(i) The formal hearing on non-concurrence will permit the submission of written evidence and argument concerning the proposal. Minutes of the hearing will be taken. Following the hearing, the Area Director may amend, alter or otherwise change his proposed conservation practices. Except as provided in § 168.17(d)(1) of this section, if following the hearing, the Area Director altered or amends portions of his proposed plan of action, he will submit those individual altered or amended portions of the plan to the Tribe in a timely manner for their concurrence.
(ii) In the event the Tribe fails or refuses to give its concurrence to the proposal at the hearing, then the implementation of such proposal may only be undertaken in those situations where the Area Director expressly determines in a written order, based upon findings of fact, that the proposed action is necessary to protect the rights and property of life tenants and/or persons awaiting relocation.
§ 168.18
Appeals.
Appeals from decisions issued under this part will be in accordance with procedures in 25 CFR part 2.
§ 168.19
Information collection.
The information collection requirement(s) contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0027. The information is being collected in order to ascertain eligibility for the issuance of a grazing permit. Response is mandatory in order to obtain a permit.
Pt. 169

# PART 169—RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER INDIAN LAND

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, General Provisions
Sec.
169.1
What is the purpose of this part?
169.2
What terms do I need to know?
169.3
To what land does this part apply?
169.4
When do I need a right-of-way to authorize possession over or across Indian land?
169.5
What types of rights-of-way does this part cover?
169.6
What statutory authority will BIA use to act on requests for rights-of-way under this part?
169.7
Does this part apply to right-of-way grants submitted for approval before December 21, 2015?
169.8
May tribes administer this part on BIA's behalf?
169.9
What laws apply to rights-of-way approved under this part?
169.10
What is the effect of a right-of-way on a tribe's jurisdiction over the underlying parcel?
169.11
What taxes apply to rights-of-way approved under this part?
169.12
How does BIA provide notice to the parties to a right-of-way?
169.13
May decisions under this part be appealed?
169.14
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Subpart B—Service Line Agreements
169.51
Is a right-of-way required for service lines?
169.52
What is a service line agreement?
169.53
What should a service line agreement address?
169.54
What are the consent requirements for service line agreements?
169.55
Is a valuation required for service line agreements?
169.56
Must I file service line agreements with the BIA?

# Subpart C—Obtaining a Right-of-Way

# Application
169.101
How do I obtain a right-of-way across tribal or individually owned Indian land or BIA land?
169.102
What must an application for a right-of-way include?
169.103
What bonds, insurance, or other security must accompany the application?
169.104
What is the release process for a bond or alternate form of security?
169.105
What requirements for due diligence must a right-of-way grant include?

# Consent Requirements
169.106
How does an applicant identify and contact individual Indian landowners to negotiate a right-of-way?
169.107
Must I obtain tribal or individual Indian landowner consent for a right-of-way across Indian land?
169.108
Who is authorized to consent to a right-of-way?
169.109
Whose consent do I need for a right-of-way when there is a life estate on the tract?

# Compensation Requirements
169.110
How much monetary compensation must be paid for a right-of-way over or across tribal land?
169.111
Must a right-of-way grant for tribal land provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
169.112
How much monetary compensation must be paid for a right-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land?
169.113
Must a right-of-way grant for individually owned Indian land provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
169.114
How will BIA determine fair market value for a right-of-way?
169.115
When are monetary compensation payments due under a right-of-way?
169.116
Must a right-of-way specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
169.117
What form of monetary compensation is acceptable under a right-of-way?
169.118
May the right-of-way provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
169.119
Will BIA notify a grantee when a payment is due for a right-of-way?
169.120
What other types of payments are required for a right-of-way?
169.121
How will compensation be distributed among the life tenants and owners of the remainder interests?
169.122
Who does the grantee pay if there is a life estate on the tract?

# Grants of Rights-of-Way
169.123
What is the process for BIA to grant a right-of-way?
169.124
How will BIA determine whether to grant a right-of-way?
169.125
What will the grant of right-of-way contain?
169.126
May a right-of-way contain a preference consistent with tribal law for employment of tribal members?
169.127
Is a new right-of-way grant required for a new use within or overlapping an existing right-of-way?
169.128
When will BIA grant a right-of-way for a new use within or overlapping an existing right-of-way?
169.129
What is required if the location described in the original application and grant differs from the construction location?
169.130
Must a right-of-way grant address ownership of permanent improvements?

# Subpart D—Duration, Renewals, Amendments, Assignments, Mortgages

# Duration

# Renewals
169.201
How long may the duration of a right-of-way grant be?
169.202
Under what circumstances will a grant of right-of-way be renewed?
169.203
May a right-of-way be renewed multiple times?

# Amendments
169.204
May a grantee amend a right-of-way?
169.205
What is the approval process for an amendment of a right-of-way?
169.206
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment of a right-of-way?

# Assignments
169.207
May a grantee assign a right-of-way?
169.208
What is the approval process for an assignment of a right-of-way?
169.209
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a right-of-way?

# Mortgages
169.210
May a grantee mortgage a right-of-way?
169.211
What is the approval process for a mortgage of a right-of-way?
169.212
How will BIA decide whether to approve a mortgage of a right-of-way?

# Subpart E—Effectiveness
169.301
When will a right-of-way document be effective?
169.302
Must a right-of-way be recorded?
169.303
What happens if BIA denies a right-of-way document?
169.304
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a right-of-way document?
169.305
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a right-of-way document?

# Subpart F—Compliance and Enforcement
169.401
What is the purpose and scope of this subpart?
169.402
Who may investigate compliance with a right-of-way?
169.403
May a right-of-way provide for negotiated remedies?
169.404
What will BIA do about a violation of a right-of-way grant?
169.405
What will BIA do if the grantee does not cure a violation of a right-of-way grant on time?
169.406
Will late payment charges, penalties, or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a right-of-way grant?
169.407
How will payment rights relating to a right-of-way grant be allocated?
169.408
What is the process for cancelling a right-of-way for non-use or abandonment?
169.409
When will a cancellation of a right-of-way grant be effective?
169.410
What will BIA do if a grantee remains in possession after a right-of-way expires or is terminated or cancelled?
169.411
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving right-of-way grants?
169.412
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a right-of-way decision?
169.413
What if an individual or entity takes possession of or uses Indian land or BIA land without a right-of-way or other proper authorization?
169.414
May BIA take emergency action if Indian land is threatened?
169.415
How will BIA conduct compliance and enforcement when there is a life estate on the tract?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 323-328; 25 U.S.C. 2201
et seq.

# Source:
80 FR 72534, Nov. 19, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, General Provisions
§ 169.1
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) This part is intended to streamline the procedures and conditions under which BIA will consider a request to approve (
i.e.,
grant) rights-of-way over and across tribal lands, individually owned Indian lands, and BIA lands, by providing for the use of the broad authority under 25 U.S.C. 323-328, rather than the limited authorities under other statutes. This part is also intended to support tribal self-determination and self-governance by acknowledging and incorporating tribal law and policies in processing a request for a right-of-way across tribal lands and defer to the maximum extent possible to Indian landowner decisions regarding their Indian land.
(b) This part specifies:
(1) Conditions and authorities under which we will consider a request to approve rights-of-way over or across Indian land;
(2) How to obtain a right-of-way;
(3) Terms and conditions required in rights-of-way;
(4) How we administer and enforce rights-of-ways;
(5) How to renew, amend, assign, and mortgage rights-of-way; and
(6) Whether rights-of-way are required for service line agreements.
(c) This part does not cover rights-of-way over or across tribal lands within a reservation for the purpose of Federal Power Act projects, such as constructing, operating, or maintaining dams, water conduits, reservoirs, powerhouses, transmission lines, or other works which must constitute a part of any project for which a license is required by the Federal Power Act.
(1) The Federal Power Act provides that any license that must be issued to use tribal lands within a reservation must be subject to and contain such conditions as the Secretary deems necessary for the adequate protection and utilization of such lands (16 U.S.C. 797(e)).
(2) In the case of tribal lands belonging to a tribe organized under the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 476), the Federal Power Act requires that annual charges for the use of such tribal lands under any license issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission must be subject to the approval of the tribe (16 U.S.C. 803(e)).
(d) This part does not apply to grants of rights-of-way on tribal land under a special act of Congress specifically authorizing rights-of-way on tribal land without our approval.
§ 169.2
What terms do I need to know?
The following terms apply to this part:
Abandonment
means the grantee has affirmatively relinquished a right-of-way (as opposed to relinquishing through non-use) either by notifying the BIA of the abandonment or by performing an act indicating an intent to give up and never regain possession of the right-of-way.
Assignment
means an agreement between a grantee and an assignee, whereby the assignee acquires all or part of the grantee's rights, and assumes all of the grantee's obligations under a grant.
Avigation hazard easement
means the right, acquired by government through purchase or condemnation from the owner of land adjacent to an airport, to the use of the air space above a specific height for the flight of aircraft.
BIA
means the Secretary of the Interior or the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior and any tribe acting on behalf of the Secretary or BIA under § 169.008.
BIA land
means any tract, or interest therein, in which the surface estate is owned and administered by the BIA, not including Indian land.
Cancellation
means BIA action to end a right-of-way grant.
Compensation
means something bargained for that is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the agreement.
Consent
means written authorization by an Indian landowner to a specified action.
Easement
means an interest, consisting of the right to use or control, for a specific limited purpose, land owned by another person, or an area above or below it, while title remains vested in the landowner.
Encumbered account
means a trust account where some portion of the proceeds are obligated to another party.
Fair market value
means the amount of compensation that a right-of-way would most probably command in an open and competitive market.
Fractional interest
means an undivided interest in Indian land owned as tenancy in common by individual Indian or tribal landowners and/or fee owners.
Grant
means the formal transfer of a right-of-way interest by the Secretary's approval or the document evidencing the formal transfer, including any changes made by a right-of-way document.
Grantee
means a person or entity to whom the Secretary grants a right-of-way or to whom the right-of-way has been assigned once the assignment is effective.
Immediate family
means, in the absence of a definition under applicable tribal law, a spouse, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, first cousin, lineal ancestor, lineal descendant, or member of the household.
Indian
means:
(1) Any person who is a member of any Indian tribe, is eligible to become a member of any Indian tribe, or is an owner as of October 27, 2004, of a trust or restricted interest in land;
(2) Any person meeting the definition of Indian under the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 479) and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and
(3) With respect to the inheritance and ownership of trust or restricted land in the State of California under 25 U.S.C. 2206, any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition or any person who owns a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of such land in that State.
Indian land
means individually owned Indian land and/or tribal land.
Indian landowner
means a tribe or individual Indian who owns an interest in Indian land.
Indian tribe
or
tribe
means an Indian tribe under section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a).
Individually owned Indian land
means any tract in which the surface estate, or an undivided interest in the surface estate, is owned by one or more individual Indians in trust or restricted status.
In-kind compensation
means payment is in goods or services rather than money.
Life estate
means an interest in property held only for the duration of a designated person(s)' life. A life estate may be created by a conveyance document or by operation of law.
LTRO
means the Land Titles and Records Office of BIA.
Map of definite location
means a survey plat signed by a professional surveyor or engineer showing the location, size, and extent of the right-of-way and other related parcels, with respect to each affected parcel of individually owned land, tribal land, or BIA land and with reference to the public surveys under 25 U.S.C. 176, 43 U.S.C. 2 and 1764, and showing existing facilities adjacent to the proposed project.
Permanent improvement
means pipelines, roads, structures, and other infrastructure attached to the land subject to the right-of-way.
Right-of-way
means an easement or a legal right to go over or across tribal
land, individually owned Indian land, or BIA land for a specific purpose, including but not limited to building and operating a line or road. This term may also refer to the land subject to the grant of right-of-way; however, in all cases, title to the land remains vested in the landowner. This term does not include service lines.
Right-of-way document
means a right-of-way grant, renewal, amendment, assignment, or mortgage of a right-of-way.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.
Termination
means action by Indian landowners to end a right-of-way.
Trespass
means any unauthorized occupancy, use of, or action on tribal or individually owned Indian land or BIA land.
Tribal authorization
means a duly adopted tribal resolution, tribal ordinance, or other appropriate tribal document authorizing the specified action.
Tribal land
means any tract in which the surface estate, or an undivided interest in the surface estate, is owned by one or more tribes in trust or restricted status. The term also includes the surface estate of lands held in trust for a tribe but reserved for BIA administrative purposes and includes the surface estate of lands held in trust for an Indian corporation chartered under section 17 of the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 477).
Tribal utility
means a utility owned by one or more tribes that is established for the purpose of providing utility service, and that is certified by the tribe to meet the following requirements:
(1) The combined Indian tribe ownership constitutes not less than 51 percent of the utility;
(2) The Indian tribes, together, receive at least a majority of the earnings; and
(3) The management and daily business operations of the utility are controlled by one or more representatives of the tribe.
Trust account
means a tribal account or Individual Indian Money (IIM) account for trust funds maintained by the Secretary.
Trust or restricted status
means:
(1) That the United States holds title to the tract or interest in trust for the benefit of one or more tribes and/or individual Indians; or
(2) That one or more tribes and/or individual Indians holds title to the tract or interest, but can alienate or encumber it only with the approval of the United States because of limitations in the conveyance instrument under Federal law or limitations in Federal law.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means the standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation to establish requirements and procedures for professional real property appraisal practice.
Us/we/our
means the BIA.
Utility cooperative
means a cooperative that provides public utilities to its members and either reinvests profits for infrastructure or distributes profits to members of the cooperative.
§ 169.3
To what land does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to Indian land and BIA land.
(b) We will not take any action on a right-of-way across fee land or collect compensation on behalf of fee interest owners. We will not condition our grant of a right-of-way across Indian land or BIA land on the applicant having obtained a right-of-way from the owners of any fee interests. The applicant will be responsible for negotiating directly with and making any payments directly to the owners of any fee interests that may exist in the property on which the right-of-way is granted.
(c) We will not include the fee interests in a tract in calculating the applicable percentage of interests required for consent to a right-of-way.
§ 169.4
When do I need a right-of-way to authorize possession over or across Indian land?
(a) You need an approved right-of-way under this part before crossing Indian land if you meet one of the criteria in the following table:
If you are . . .
then you must obtain a right-of-way under this part . . .
(1) A person or legal entity (including a Federal, State, or local governmental entity) who is not an owner of the Indian land
from us, with the consent of the owners of the majority interest in the land, and the tribe for tribal land, before crossing the land or any portion thereof.
(2) An individual Indian landowner who owns a fractional interest in the land (even if the individual Indian landowner owns a majority of the fractional interests)
from us, with the consent of the owners of other trust and restricted interests in the land, totaling at least a majority interest in the tract, and with the consent of the tribe for tribal land. You do not need to obtain a right-of-way from us if all of the owners (including the tribe, for tribal land) have given you permission to cross without a right-of-way.
(3) An Indian tribe, agency or instrumentality of the tribe, or an independent legal entity wholly owned and operated by the tribe who owns only a fractional interest in the land (even if the tribe, agency, instrumentality or legal entity owns a majority of the fractional interests)
from us, with the consent of the owners of other trust and restricted interests in the land, totaling at least a majority interest in the tract, unless all of the owners have given you permission to cross without a right-of-way.
(b) You do not need a right-of-way to cross Indian land if:
(1) You are an Indian landowner who owns 100 percent of the trust or restricted interests in the land; or
(2) You are authorized by:
(i) A lease under 25 CFR part 162, 211, 212, or 225 or permit under 25 CFR part 166;
(ii) A tribal land assignment or similar instrument authorizing use of the tribal land without Secretarial approval; or
(iii) Other, tribe-specific authority authorizing use of the tribal land without Secretarial approval; or
(iv) Another land use agreement not subject to this part (e.g., under 25 CFR part 84); or
(3) You meet any of the criteria in the following table:
You do not need a right-of-way if you are . . .
but the following conditions apply . . .
(i) A parent or guardian of a minor child who owns 100 percent of the trust or restricted interests in the land
We may require you to provide evidence of a direct benefit to the minor child and when the child is no longer a minor, you must obtain a right-of-way to authorize continued possession.
(ii) Authorized by a service line agreement to cross the land
You must file the agreement with us under § 169.56.
(iii) An independent legal entity wholly owned and operated by the tribe that owns 100 percent of the trust or restricted interests in the land
The tribal governing body must pass a tribal authorization authorizing access without BIA approval and including a legal description, and you must submit both documents to BIA for our records.
(iv) Otherwise authorized by law
You must comply with the requirements of the applicable law.
§ 169.5
What types of rights-of-way does this part cover?
(a) This part covers rights-of-way over and across Indian or BIA land, for uses including but not limited to the following:
(1) Railroads;
(2) Public roads and highways;
(3) Access roads;
(4) Service roads and trails, even where they are appurtenant to any other right-of-way purpose;
(5) Public and community water lines (including pumping stations and appurtenant facilities);
(6) Public sanitary and storm sewer lines (including sewage disposal and treatment plant lines);
(7) Water control and use projects (including but not limited to, flowage easements, irrigation ditches and canals, and water treatment plant lines);
(8) Oil and gas pipelines (including pump stations, meter stations, and other appurtenant facilities);
(9) Electric transmission and distribution systems (including lines, poles, towers, telecommunication, protection, measurement and data acquisition equipment, other items necessary to operate and maintain the system, and appurtenant facilities);
(10) Telecommunications, broadband, fiber optic lines;
(11) Avigation hazard easements;
(12) Conservation easements not covered by 25 CFR part 84, Encumbrances of Tribal Land—Contract Approvals, or 25 CFR part 162, Leases and Permits; or
(13) Any other new use for which a right-of-way is appropriate but which is unforeseeable as of the effective date of these regulations.
(b) Each of the uses listed above includes the right to access the right-of-way to manage vegetation, inspect, maintain and repair equipment, and
conduct other activities that are necessary to maintain the right-of-way use.
§ 169.6
What statutory authority will BIA use to act on requests for rights-of-way under this part?
BIA will act on requests for rights-of-way using the authority in 25 U.S.C. 323-328, and relying on supplementary authority such as 25 U.S.C. 2218, where appropriate.
§ 169.7
Does this part apply to right-of-way grants submitted for approval before December 21, 2015?
(a) If your right-of-way grant is issued on or after April 21, 2016, this part applies.
(b) If we granted your right-of-way before April 21, 2016, the procedural provisions of this part apply except that if the procedural provisions of this part conflict with the explicit provisions of the right-of-way grant or statute authorizing the right-of-way document, then the provisions of the right-of-way grant or authorizing statute apply instead. Non-procedural provisions of this part do not apply.
(c) If you submitted an application for a right-of-way but we did not grant the right-of-way before April 21, 2016, then:
(1) You may choose to withdraw the document and resubmit after April 21, 2016, in which case this part will apply to that document; or
(2) You may choose to proceed without withdrawing, in which case:
(i) We will review the application under the regulations in effect at the time of your submission; and
(ii) Once we grant the right-of-way, the procedural provisions of this part apply except that if the procedural provisions of this part conflict with the explicit provisions of the right-of-way grant or statute authorizing the right-of-way document, then the provisions of the right-of-way grant or authorizing statute apply instead. Non-procedural provisions of this part do not apply.
(d) For any assignments completed before April 21, 2016, the current assignee must, by August 16, 2016, provide BIA with documentation of any past assignments or notify BIA that it needs an extension and explain the reason for the extension.
(e) To the maximum extent possible, BIA will interpret any ambiguous language in the right-of-way document or statute to be consistent with these regulations.
[80 FR 72534, Nov. 19, 2015; 80 FR 79258, Dec. 21, 2015; 81 FR 14976, Mar. 21, 2016]
§ 169.8
May tribes administer this part on BIA's behalf?
A tribe or tribal organization may contract or compact under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.
) to administer on BIA's behalf any portion of this part that is not a grant, approval, or disapproval of a right-of-way document, waiver of a requirement for right-of-way grant or approval (including but not limited to waivers of fair market value and valuation), cancellation of a right-of-way, or an appeal. Applicants may inquire at either the BIA office or the tribal office to determine whether the tribe has compacted or contracted to administer realty functions.
§ 169.9
What laws apply to rights-of-way approved under this part?
In addition to the regulations in this part, rights-of-way approved under this part:
(a) Are subject to all applicable Federal laws;
(b) Are subject to tribal law; except to the extent that those tribal laws are inconsistent with applicable Federal law; and
(c) Are generally not subject to State law or the law of a political subdivision thereof.
§ 169.10
What is the effect of a right-of-way on a tribe's jurisdiction over the underlying parcel?
A right-of-way is a non-possessory interest in land, and title does not pass to the grantee. The Secretary's grant of a right-of-way will clarify that it does not diminish to any extent:
(a) The Indian tribe's jurisdiction over the land subject to, and any person or activity within, the right-of-way;
(b) The power of the Indian tribe to tax the land, any improvements on the
land, or any person or activity within, the right-of-way;
(c) The Indian tribe's authority to enforce tribal law of general or particular application on the land subject to and within the right-of-way, as if there were no grant of right-of-way;
(d) The Indian tribe's inherent sovereign power to exercise civil jurisdiction over non-members on Indian land; or
(e) The character of the land subject to the right-of-way as Indian country under 18 U.S.C. 1151.
§ 169.11
What taxes apply to rights-of-way approved under this part?
(a) Subject only to applicable Federal law:
(1) Permanent improvements in a right-of-way, without regard to ownership of those improvements, are not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State;
(2) Activities under a right-of-way grant are not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge (e.g., business use, privilege, public utility, excise, gross revenue taxes) imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State; and
(3) The right-of-way interest is not subject to any fee, tax, assessment, levy, or other charge imposed by any State or political subdivision of a State.
(b) Improvements, activities, and right-of-way interests may be subject to taxation by the Indian tribe with jurisdiction.
§ 169.12
How does BIA provide notice to the parties to a right-of-way?
When this part requires BIA to notify the parties of our intent to grant a right-of-way under § 169.107(b) or our determination to approve or disapprove a right-of-way document, and to provide any right of appeal:
(a) For rights-of-way over or across tribal land, we will notify the applicant and the tribe by first class U.S. mail or, upon request, electronic mail; and
(b) For rights-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land, we will notify the applicant and individual Indian landowners by first class U.S. mail or, upon request, electronic mail. If the individually owned land is located within a tribe's jurisdiction, we will also notify the tribe by first class U.S. mail or, upon request, electronic mail.
§ 169.13
May decisions under this part be appealed?
(a) Appeals from BIA decisions under this part may be taken under part 2 of this chapter, except our decision to disapprove a right-of-way grant or any other right-of-way document may be appealed only by the applicant or an Indian landowner of the tract over or across which the right-of-way was proposed.
(b) For purposes of appeals from BIA decisions under this part, “interested party” is defined as any person whose land is subject to the right-of-way or located adjacent to or in close proximity to the right-of-way whose own direct economic interest is adversely affected by an action or decision.
§ 169.14
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collections of information in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0181. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.

# Subpart B—Service Line Agreements
§ 169.51
Is a right-of-way required for service lines?
Service lines generally branch off from facilities for which a right-of-way must be obtained. A service line is a utility line running from a main line, transmission line, or distribution line that is used only for supplying telephone, water, electricity, gas, internet service, or other utility service to a house, business, or other structure. In the case of a power line, a service line is limited to a voltage of 14.5 kv or less, or a voltage of 34.5 kv or less if serving irrigation pumps and commercial and
industrial uses. To obtain access to Indian land for service lines, the right-of-way grantee must file a service line agreement meeting the requirements of this subpart with BIA.
§ 169.52
What is a service line agreement?
Service line agreements are agreements signed by a utility provider and landowners for the purpose of providing limited access to supply the owners (or authorized occupants or users) of one tract of tribal or individually owned Indian land with utilities for use by such owners (or occupants or users) on the premises.
§ 169.53
What should a service line agreement address?
A service line agreement should address what utility services the provider will supply, to whom, and other appropriate details. The service line agreement should also address the mitigation of any damages incurred during construction and the restoration (or reclamation, if agreed to by the owners or authorized occupants or users) of the premises at the termination of the agreement.
§ 169.54
What are the consent requirements for service line agreements?
(a) Before the utility provider may begin any work to construct service lines across tribal land, the utility provider and the tribe (or the legally authorized occupants or users of the tribal land and upon request, the tribe) must execute a service line agreement.
(b) Before the utility provider may begin any work to construct service lines across individually owned land, the utility provider and the owners (or the legally authorized occupants or users) must execute a service line agreement.
§ 169.55
Is a valuation required for service line agreements?
We do not require a valuation for service line agreements.
§ 169.56
Must I file service line agreements with the BIA?
The parties must file an executed copy of service line agreements, together with a plat or diagram, with us within 30 days after the date of execution for recording in the LTRO. The plat or diagram must show the boundary of the ownership parcel and point of connection of the service line with the distribution line. When the plat or diagram is placed on a separate sheet it must include the signatures of the parties.

# Subpart C—Obtaining a Right-of-Way

# Application
§ 169.101
How do I obtain a right-of-way across tribal or individually owned Indian land or BIA land?
(a) To obtain a right-of-way across tribal or individually owned Indian land or BIA land, you must submit a complete application to the BIA office with jurisdiction over the land covered by the right-of-way.
(b) If you must obtain access to Indian land to prepare information required by the application (e.g., to survey), you must obtain the consent of the Indian landowners, but our approval to access is not required. Upon written request, we will provide you with the names, addresses, and percentage of ownership of individual Indian landowners, to allow you to obtain the landowners' consent to survey.
(c) If the BIA will be granting the right-of-way across Indian land under § 169.107(b), then the BIA may grant permission to access the land.
§ 169.102
What must an application for a right-of-way include?
(a) An application for a right-of-way must identify:
(1) The applicant;
(2) The tract(s) or parcel(s) affected by the right-of-way;
(3) The general location of the right-of-way;
(4) The purpose of the right-of-way;
(5) The duration of the right-of-way: and
(6) The ownership of permanent improvements associated with the right-of-way and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing permanent improvements under § 169.105.
(b) The following must be submitted with the application:
(1) An accurate legal description of the right-of-way, its boundaries, and parcels associated with the right-of-way;
(2) A map of definite location of the right-of-way (this requirement does not apply to easements covering the entire tract of land);
(3) Bond(s), insurance, and/or other security meeting the requirements of § 169.103;
(4) Record that notice of the right-of-way was provided to all Indian landowners;
(5) Record of consent for the right-of-way meeting the requirements of § 169.107, or a statement requesting a right-of-way without consent under § 169.107(b);
(6) If applicable, a valuation meeting the requirements of § 169.114;
(7) If the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity, except a tribal entity, information such as organizational documents, certificates, filing records, and resolutions, demonstrating that:
(i) The representative has authority to execute the application;
(ii) The right-of-way will be enforceable against the applicant; and
(iii) The legal entity is in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the jurisdiction where the land is located;
(8) Environmental and archaeological reports, surveys, and site assessments, as needed to facilitate compliance with applicable Federal and tribal environmental and land use requirements; and
(9) A statement from the appropriate tribal authority that the proposed use is in conformance with applicable tribal law, if required by the tribe.
(c) There is no standard application form.
§ 169.103
What bonds, insurance, or other security must accompany the application?
(a) You must include payment of bonds, insurance, or alternative forms of security with your application for a right-of-way in amounts that cover:
(1) The highest annual rental specified in the grant, unless compensation is a one-time payment;
(2) The estimated damages resulting from the construction of any permanent improvements;
(3) The estimated damages and remediation costs from any potential release of contaminants, explosives, hazardous material or waste;
(4) The operation and maintenance charges for any land located within an irrigation project;
(5) The restoration of the premises to their condition at the start of the right-of-way or reclamation to some other specified condition if agreed to by the landowners.
(b) The bond or other security must be deposited with us and made payable only to us, and may not be modified without our approval, except for tribal land in which case the bond or security may be deposited with and made payable to the tribe, and may not be modified without the approval of the tribe. Any insurance must identify both the Indian landowners and the United States as additional insured parties.
(c) The grant will specify the conditions under which we may adjust the bond, insurance, or security requirements to reflect changing conditions, including consultation with the tribal landowner for tribal land before the adjustment.
(d) We may require that the surety provide any supporting documents needed to show that the bond, insurance, or alternative form of security will be enforceable, and that the surety will be able to perform the guaranteed obligations.
(e) The bond, insurance, or other security instrument must require the surety to provide notice to us, and the tribe for tribal land, at least 60 days before canceling a bond, insurance, or other security. This will allow us to notify the grantee of its obligation to provide a substitute bond, insurance, or other security before the cancellation date. Failure to provide a substitute bond, insurance or security is a violation of the right-of-way.
(f) We may waive the requirement for a bond, insurance, or alternative form of security:
(1) For individually owned Indian land, if the Indian landowners of the majority of the interests request it and we determine, in writing, that a waiver is in the Indian landowners' best interest considering the purpose of and risks associated with the right-of-way, or if the grantee is a utility cooperative and is providing a direct benefit to the Indian land or is a tribal utility.
(2) For tribal land, deferring, to the maximum extent possible, to the tribe's determination that a waiver of a bond, insurance or alternative form of security is in its best interest.
(g) We will accept a bond only in one of the following forms:
(1) Certificates of deposit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(2) Irrevocable letters of credit issued by a federally insured financial institution authorized to do business in the United States;
(3) Negotiable Treasury securities; or
(4) Surety bonds issued by a company approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(h) We may accept an alternative form of security approved by us that provides adequate protection for the Indian landowners and us, including but not limited to an escrow agreement or an assigned savings account.
(i) All forms of bonds or alternative security must, if applicable:
(1) State on their face that BIA approval is required for redemption;
(2) Be accompanied by a statement granting full authority to BIA to make an immediate claim upon or sell them if the grantee violates the terms of the right-of-way grant;
(3) Be irrevocable during the term of the bond or alternative security; and
(4) Be automatically renewable during the term of the right-of-way.
(j) We will not accept cash bonds.
(k) The requirements of this section do not apply to Federal, State, Tribal, or local governments who are prohibited by law from providing a bond, insurance, or other security. Federal, State, Tribal, or local governments seeking this exemption must include with their application a certification, including a citation to applicable law, that they are prohibited by law from providing security. Federal, State, Tribal, or local governments must also notify landowners that they are prohibited by law from providing security when they notify the Indian landowners of their application under § 169.107.
[80 FR 72534, Nov. 19, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 42808, Aug. 19, 2019]
§ 169.104
What is the release process for a bond or alternative form of security?
Upon satisfaction of the requirements for which the bond was security, or upon expiration, termination, or cancellation of the right-of-way, the grantee may ask BIA in writing to release all or part of the bond or alternative form of security and release the grantee from the obligation to maintain insurance. Upon receiving the grantee's request, BIA will:
(a) Confirm with the tribe, for tribal land or, where feasible, with the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, that the grantee has complied with all applicable grant obligations; and
(b) Release all or part of the bond or alternative form of security to the grantee, unless we determine that the bond or security must be redeemed to fulfill the contractual obligations.
§ 169.105
What requirements for due diligence must a right-of-way grant include?
(a) If permanent improvements are to be constructed, the right-of-way grant must include due diligence requirements that require the grantee to complete construction of any permanent improvements within the schedule specified in the right-of-way grant or general schedule of construction, and a process for changing the schedule by mutual consent of the parties. If construction does not occur, or is not expected to be completed, within the time period specified in the grant, the grantee must provide the Indian landowners and BIA with an explanation of good cause as to the nature of any delay, the anticipated date of construction of facilities, and evidence of progress toward commencement of construction.
(b) Failure of the grantee to comply with the due diligence requirements of the grant is a violation of the grant and may lead to cancellation of the right-of-way under § 169.405 or § 169.408.
(c) BIA may waive the requirements in this section if we determine, in writing, that a waiver is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.

# Consent Requirements
§ 169.106
How does an applicant identify and contact individual Indian landowners to negotiate a right-of-way?
(a) Applicants may submit a written request to us to obtain the following information. The request must specify that it is for the purpose of negotiating a right-of-way:
(1) Names and addresses of the individual Indian landowners or their representatives;
(2) Information on the location of the parcel; and
(3) The percentage of undivided interest owned by each individual Indian landowner.
(b) We may assist applicants in contacting the individual Indian landowners or their representatives for the purpose of negotiating a right-of-way, upon request.
(c) We will attempt to assist individual Indian landowners in right-of-way negotiations, upon their request.
§ 169.107
Must I obtain tribal or individual Indian landowner consent for a right-of-way across Indian land?
(a) For a right-of-way across tribal land, the applicant must obtain tribal consent, in the form of a tribal authorization and a written agreement with the tribe, if the tribe so requires, to a grant of right-of-way across tribal land. The consent document may impose restrictions or conditions; any restrictions or conditions automatically become conditions and restrictions in the grant.
(b) For a right-of-way across individually owned Indian land, the applicant must notify all individual Indian landowners and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must obtain written consent from the owners of the majority interest in each tract affected by the grant of right-of-way.
(1) We may issue the grant of right-of-way without the consent of any of the individual Indian owners if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The owners of interests in the land are so numerous that it would be impracticable to obtain consent as defined in paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) We determine the grant will cause no substantial injury to the land or any landowner, based on factors including, but not limited to, the reasonableness of the term of the grant, the amount of acreage involved in the grant, the disturbance to land that will result from the grant, the type of activity to be conducted under the grant, the potential for environmental or safety impacts resulting from the grant, and any objections raised by landowners;
(iii) We determine that all of the landowners will be adequately compensated for consideration and any damages that may arise from a grant of right-of-way; and
(iv) We provide notice of our intent to issue the grant of right-of-way to all of the owners at least 60 days prior to the date of the grant using the procedures in § 169.12, and provide landowners with 30 days to object.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the owners of interests in the land are so numerous that it would be impracticable to obtain consent, if there are 50 or more co-owners of undivided trust or restricted interests.
(3) Successors are bound by consent granted by their predecessors-in-interest.
(c) We will determine the number of owners of, and undivided interests in, a fractionated tract of Indian land, for the purposes of calculating the requisite consent based on our records on the date on which the application is submitted to us.
§ 169.108
Who is authorized to consent to a right-of-way?
(a) Indian tribes, adult Indian landowners, and emancipated minors, may consent to a right-of-way over or across their land, including undivided interests in fractionated tracts.
(b) The following individuals or entities may consent on behalf of an individual Indian landowner:
(1) An adult with legal custody acting on behalf of his or her minor children;
(2) A guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to act on behalf of an individual Indian landowner;
(3) Any person who is authorized to practice before the Department of the Interior under 43 CFR 1.3(b) and has been retained by the Indian landowner for this purpose;
(4) BIA, under the circumstances in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(5) An adult or legal entity who has been given a written power of attorney that:
(i) Meets all of the formal requirements of any applicable law under § 169.9;
(ii) Identifies the attorney-in-fact; and
(iii) Describes the scope of the powers granted, to include granting rights-of-way on land or generally conveying or encumbering interests in Indian land, and any limits on those powers.
(c) BIA may give written consent to a right-of-way on behalf of an individual Indian landowner, as long as we determine that the grant will cause no substantial injury to the land or any landowner, based on factors including, but not limited to, the amount of acreage involved in the grant, the disturbance to land that will result from the grant, the type of activity to be conducted under the grant, the potential for environmental or safety impacts resulting from the grant, and any objections raised by landowners. BIA's consent must be counted in the majority interest under § 169.107, on behalf of:
(1) An individual Indian landowner, if the owner is deceased, and the heirs to, or devisees of, the interest of the deceased owner have not been determined;
(2) An individual Indian landowner whose whereabouts are unknown to us, after we make a reasonable attempt to locate the individual;
(3) An individual Indian landowner who is found to be non compos mentis or determined to be an adult in need of assistance who does not have a guardian duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, or an individual under legal disability as defined in part 115 of this chapter;
(4) An individual Indian landowner who is an orphaned minor and who does not have a guardian duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
(5) An individual Indian landowner who has given us a written power of attorney to consent to a right-of-way over or across their land.
§ 169.109
Whose consent do I need for a right-of-way when there is a life estate on the tract?
If there is a life estate on the tract that would be subject to the right-of-way, the applicant must get the consent of both the life tenant and the owners of the majority of the remainder interest known at the time of the application.

# Compensation Requirements
§ 169.110
How much monetary compensation must be paid for a right-of-way over or across tribal land?
(a) A right-of-way over or across tribal land may allow for any payment amount negotiated by the tribe, and we will defer to the tribe and not require a valuation if the tribe submits a tribal authorization expressly stating that it:
(1) Has agreed upon compensation satisfactory to the tribe;
(2) Waives valuation; and
(3) Has determined that accepting such agreed-upon compensation and waiving valuation is in its best interest.
(b) The tribe may request, in writing, that we determine fair market value, in which case we will use a valuation in accordance with § 169.114. After providing the tribe with the fair market value, we will defer to a tribe's decision to allow for any compensation negotiated by the tribe.
(c) If the conditions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not met, we will require that the grantee pay fair market value based on a valuation in accordance with § 169.114.
§ 169.111
Must a right-of-way grant for tribal land provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
For a right-of-way grant over or across tribal land, no periodic review of the adequacy of compensation or adjustment is required, unless the tribe negotiates for reviews or adjustments.
§ 169.112
How much monetary compensation must be paid for a right-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land?
(a) A right-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land must require compensation of not less than fair market value, unless paragraph (b) or (c) of this section permit a lesser amount. Compensation may also include additional fees, including but not limited to throughput fees, severance damages, franchise fees, avoidance value, bonuses, or other factors. Compensation may be based on a fixed amount, a percentage of the projected income, or some other method. The grant must establish how the fixed amount, percentage, or combination will be calculated and the frequency at which the payments will be made.
(b) We may approve a right-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land that provides for nominal compensation, or compensation less than a fair market value, if:
(1) The grantee is a utility cooperative and is providing a direct benefit to the Indian land; or
(2) The grantee is a tribal utility; or
(3) The individual Indian landowners execute a written waiver of the right to receive fair market value and we determine it is in the individual Indian landowners' best interest, based on factors including, but not limited to:
(i) The grantee is a member of the immediate family, as defined in § 169.2, of an individual Indian landowner;
(ii) The grantee is a co-owner in the affected tract;
(iii) A special relationship or circumstances exist that we believe warrant approval of the right-of-way; or
(iv) We have waived the requirement for a valuation under paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) We will require a valuation to determine fair market value, unless:
(1) 100 percent of the individual Indian landowners submit to us a written request to waive the valuation requirement; or
(2) We waive the requirement under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) The grant must provide that the non-consenting individual Indian landowners, and those on whose behalf we have consented under § 169.108(c), or granted the right-of-way without consent under § 169.107(b), receive fair market value, as determined by a valuation, unless:
(1) The grantee is a utility cooperative and is providing a direct benefit to the Indian land; or
(2) The grantee is a tribal utility; or
(3) We waive the requirement because the tribe or grantee will construct infrastructure improvements benefitting the individual Indian landowners, and we determine in writing that the waiver is in the best interest of all the landowners.
§ 169.113
Must a right-of-way grant for individually owned Indian land provide for compensation reviews or adjustments?
(a) For a right-of-way grant of individually owned Indian land, a review of the adequacy of compensation must occur at least every fifth year, in the manner specified in the grant unless:
(1) Payment is a one-time lump sum;
(2) The term of the right-of-way grant is 5 years or less;
(3) The grant provides for automatic adjustments; or
(4) We determine it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners not to require a review or automatic adjustment based on circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The right-of-way grant provides for payment of less than fair market value;
(ii) The right-of-way grant provides for most or all of the compensation to be paid during the first 5 years of the grant term or before the date the review would be conducted; or
(iii) The right-of-way grant provides for graduated rent or non-monetary or varying types of compensation.
(b) The grant must specify:
(1) When adjustments take effect;
(2) Who can make adjustments;
(3) What the adjustments are based on; and
(4) How to resolve disputes arising from the adjustments.
(c) When a review results in the need for adjustment of compensation, the Indian landowners must consent to the adjustment in accordance with § 169.107, unless the grant provides otherwise.
§ 169.114
How will BIA determine fair market value for a right-of-way?
(a) We will use a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method to determine the fair market value before we grant a right-of-way over or across individually owned Indian land. We will also use a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method to determine, at the request of the tribe, the fair market value of tribal land.
(b) We will either:
(1) Prepare, or have prepared, a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method; or
(2) Approve use of a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method from the Indian landowners or grantee.
(c) We will use or approve use of a market analysis, appraisal, or other appropriate valuation method only if it:
(1) Has been prepared in accordance with USPAP or a valuation method developed by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 2214 and complies with Departmental policies regarding appraisals, including third-party appraisals; or
(2) Has been prepared by another Federal agency.
§ 169.115
When are monetary compensation payments due under a right-of-way?
Compensation for a right-of-way may be a one-time, lump sum payment, or may be paid in increments (for example, annually).
(a) If compensation is a one-time, lump sum payment, the grantee must make the payment by the date we grant the right-of-way, unless stated otherwise in the grant.
(b) If compensation is to be paid in increments, the right-of-way grant must specify the dates on which all payments are due. Payments are due at the time specified in the grant, regardless of whether the grantee receives an advance billing or other notice that a payment is due. Increments may not be more frequent than quarterly if payments are made to us on the Indian landowners' behalf.
§ 169.116
Must a right-of-way specify who receives monetary compensation payments?
(a) A right-of-way grant must specify whether the grantee will make payments directly to the Indian landowners (direct pay) or to us on their behalf.
(b) The grantee may make payments directly to the tribe if the tribe so chooses. The grantee may make payments directly to the Indian landowners if:
(1) The Indian landowners' trust accounts are unencumbered accounts;
(2) There are 10 or fewer beneficial owners; and
(3) One hundred percent of the beneficial owners (including those on whose behalf we have consented) agree to receive payment directly from the grantee at the start of the right-of-way.
(c) If the right-of-way document provides that the grantee will directly pay the Indian landowners, then:
(1) The right-of-way document must include provisions for proof of payment upon our request.
(2) When we consent on behalf of an Indian landowner, the grantee must make payment to us on behalf of that landowner.
(3) The grantee must send direct payments to the parties and addresses specified in the right-of-way, unless the grantee receives notice of a change of ownership or address.
(4) Unless the right-of-way document provides otherwise, payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.
(5) Direct payments must continue through the duration of the right-of-way, except that:
(i) The grantee must make all Indian landowners' payments to us if 100 percent of the Indian landowners agree to suspend direct pay and provide us with documentation of their agreement; and
(ii) The grantee must make an individual Indian landowner's payment to
us if that individual Indian landowner dies, is declared non compos mentis, owes a debt resulting in an encumbered account, or his or her whereabouts become unknown.
§ 169.117
What form of monetary compensation is acceptable under a right-of-way?
(a) If payments are made to us on behalf of the Indian landowners, our preferred method of payment is electronic funds transfer payments. We will also accept:
(1) Money orders;
(2) Personal checks;
(3) Certified checks; or
(4) Cashier's checks.
(b) We will not accept cash or foreign currency.
(c) We will accept third-party checks only from financial institutions or Federal agencies.
(d) The grant of right-of-way will specify the payment method if payments are made by direct pay.
§ 169.118
May the right-of-way provide for non-monetary or varying types of compensation?
(a) A right-of-way grant may provide for alternative forms of compensation and varying types of compensation, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:
(1) Alternative forms of compensation may include but are not limited to, in-kind consideration and payments based on throughput or percentage of income; or
(2) Varying types of compensation may include but are not limited to different types of payments at specific stages during the life of the right-of-way grant, such as fixed annual payments during construction, payments based on income during an operational period, and bonuses.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the compensation under paragraph (a) of this section is in its best interest, if the tribe submits a signed certification or tribal authorization stating that it has determined the alternative form of compensation or varying type of compensation to be in its best interest.
(c) For individually owned land, we may grant a right-of-way that provides for an alternative form of compensation or varying type of compensation if we determine that it is in the best interest of the Indian landowners.
§ 169.119
Will BIA notify a grantee when a payment is due for a right-of-way?
Upon request of the Indian landowners, we may issue invoices to a grantee in advance of the dates on which payments are due under the right-of-way. The grantee's obligation to make these payments in a timely manner will not be excused if invoices are not issued, delivered, or received.
§ 169.120
What other types of payments are required for a right-of-way?
(a) The grantee may be required to pay additional fees, taxes, and assessments associated with the application for use of the land or use of the land, as determined by entities having jurisdiction, except as provided in § 169.11. The grantee must pay these amounts to the appropriate office, as applicable.
(b) In addition to, or as part of, the compensation for a right-of-way under §§ 169.110 and 169.112 and the payments provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant for a right-of-way will be required to pay for all damages to the land, such as those incident to the construction or maintenance of the facility for which the right-of-way is granted.
§ 169.121
How will compensation be distributed among the life tenants and owners of the remainder interests?
If a will created the life estate and specifies how the compensation will be distributed among the life tenants and owners of the remainder interests, those terms will establish the distribution. Otherwise:
(a) The owners of the remainder interests and the life tenant may enter into a right-of-way or other written agreement approved by the Secretary providing for the distribution of rent monies under the right-of-way; or
(b) If the owners of the remainder interests and life tenant did not enter into an agreement for distribution, the
life tenant will receive payment in accordance with the distribution and calculation scheme set forth in part 179 of this chapter.
§ 169.122
Who does the grantee pay if there is a life estate on the tract?
The grantee must pay compensation directly to the life tenant under the terms of the right-of-way unless the whereabouts of the life tenant are unknown, in which case we may collect compensation on behalf of the life tenant.

# Grants of Rights-of-Way
§ 169.123
What is the process for BIA to grant a right-of-way?
(a) Before we grant a right-of-way, we must determine that the right-of-way is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:
(1) Review the right-of-way application and supporting documents;
(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and adverse impacts, and ensure compliance with all applicable Federal environmental, land use, historic preservation, and cultural resource laws and ordinances; and
(3) Require any modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.
(b) Upon receiving a right-of-way application, we will promptly notify the applicant whether the package is complete. A complete package includes all of the information and supporting documents required under this subpart, including but not limited to, an accurate legal description for each affected tract, documentation of landowner consent, NEPA review documentation and valuation documentation, where applicable.
(1) If the right-of-way application package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of an application package, the parties may take action under § 169.304.
(2) If the right-of-way application package is complete, we will notify the applicant of the date of our receipt of the complete package. Within 60 days of our receipt of a complete package, we will grant or deny the right-of-way, return the package for revision, or inform the applicant in writing that we need additional review time. If we inform the applicant in writing that we need additional time, then:
(i) Our letter informing the applicant that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the applicant to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter; and
(ii) We will issue a written determination granting or denying the right-of-way within 30 days from sending the letter informing the applicant that we need additional time.
(c) If we do not meet the deadlines in this section, then the applicant may take appropriate action under § 169.304.
(d) We will provide any right-of-way denial and the basis for the determination, along with notification of any appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter to the parties to the right-of-way. If the right-of-way is granted, we will provide a copy of the right-of-way to the tribal landowner and, upon written request, make copies available to the individual Indian landowners, and provide notice under § 169.12.
§ 169.124
How will BIA determine whether to grant a right-of-way?
Our decision to grant or deny a right-of-way will be in writing.
(a) We will grant a right-of-way unless:
(1) The requirements of this subpart have not been met, such as if the required landowner consent has not been obtained under § 169.107; or
(2) We find a compelling reason to withhold the grant in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the right-of-way is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold our grant of a right-of-way.
(d) We may grant one right-of-way for all of the tracts traversed by the right-of-way, or we may issue separate grants for one or more tracts traversed by the right-of-way.
§ 169.125
What will the grant of right-of-way contain?
(a) The grant will incorporate the conditions or restrictions set out in the Indian landowners' consents.
(b) The grant will address:
(1) The use(s) the grant is authorizing;
(2) Whether assignment of the right-of-way is permitted and, if so, whether additional consent is required for the assignment and whether any additional compensation is owed to the landowners;
(3) Whether mortgaging of the right-of-way is permitted and, if so, whether additional consent is required for the mortgage and whether any additional compensation is owed to the landowners; and
(4) Ownership of permanent improvements under § 169.130.
(c) The grant will state that:
(1) The tribe maintains its existing jurisdiction over the land, activities, and persons within the right-of-way under § 169.10 and reserves the right of the tribe to reasonable access to the lands subject to the grant to determine grantee's compliance with consent conditions or to protect public health and safety;
(2) The grantee has no right to any of the products or resources of the land, including but not limited to, timber, forage, mineral, and animal resources, unless otherwise provided for in the grant;
(3) BIA may treat any provision of a grant that violates Federal law as a violation of the grant; and
(4) If historic properties, archeological resources, human remains, or other cultural items not previously reported are encountered during the course of any activity associated with this grant, all activity in the immediate vicinity of the properties, resources, remains, or items will cease and the grantee will contact BIA and the tribe with jurisdiction over the land to determine how to proceed and appropriate disposition.
(5) The grantee must:
(i) Construct and maintain improvements within the right-of-way in a professional manner consistent with industry standards;
(ii) Pay promptly all damages and compensation, in addition to bond or alternative form of security made pursuant to § 169.103, determined by the BIA to be due the landowners and authorized users and occupants of land as a result of the granting, construction, and maintenance of the right-of-way;
(iii) Restore the land as nearly as may be possible to its original condition, upon the completion of construction, to the extent compatible with the purpose for which the right-of-way was granted, or reclaim the land if agreed to by the landowners;
(iv) Clear and keep clear the land within the right-of-way, to the extent compatible with the purpose of the right-of-way, and dispose of all vegetative and other material cut, uprooted, or otherwise accumulated during the construction and maintenance of the project;
(v) Comply with all applicable laws and obtain all required permits;
(vi) Not commit waste;
(vii) Operate, repair and maintain improvements consistent with the right-of-way grant;
(viii) Build and maintain necessary and suitable crossings for all roads and trails that intersect the improvements constructed, maintained, or operated under the right-of-way;
(ix) Restore the land to its original condition, to the maximum extent reasonably possible, upon cancellation or termination of the right-of-way, or reclaim the land if agreed to by the landowners;
(x) At all times keep the BIA, and the tribe for tribal land, informed of the grantee's address;
(xi) Refrain from interfering with the landowner's use of the land, provided that the landowner's use of the land is not inconsistent with the right-of-way;
(xii) Comply with due diligence requirements under § 169.105; and
(xiii) Notify the BIA, and the tribe for tribal land, if it files for bankruptcy or is placed in receivership.
(6) Unless the grantee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the grantee must also:
(i) Hold the United States and the Indian landowners harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting
from the applicant's use or occupation of the premises; and
(ii) Indemnify the United States and the Indian landowners against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or release or discharge of any hazardous material from the premises that occurs during the term of the grant, regardless of fault, with the exception that the applicant is not required to indemnify the Indian landowners for liability or cost arising from the Indian landowners' negligence or willful misconduct.
(d) The grant must attach or include by reference maps of definite location.
§ 169.126
May a right-of-way contain a preference consistent with tribal law for employment of tribal members?
A grant of right-of-way over or across Indian land may include a provision, consistent with tribal law, requiring the grantee to give a preference to qualified tribal members, based on their political affiliation with the tribe.
§ 169.127
Is a new right-of-way grant required for a new use within or overlapping an existing right-of-way?
(a) If you are the grantee, you may use all or a portion of an existing right-of-way for a use not specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way only if it is within the same scope of the use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way.
(1) If you propose to use all or a portion of an existing right-of-way for a use not specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way and not within the same scope of the use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way, and the new use will not require any ground disturbance, you must request an amendment to the existing right-of-way grant.
(2) If you propose to use all or a portion of an existing right-of-way for a use not specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way and not within the same scope of the use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way, and the new use requires ground disturbance, you must request a new right-of-way.
(b) If you are not the grantee:
(1) You may use all or a portion of an existing right-of-way for a use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way or a use within the same scope of the use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way if the grantee obtains an assignment to authorize the new user; or
(2) You may use all or a portion of an existing right-of-way for a use not specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way and not within the same scope of use specified in the original grant of the existing right-of-way if you request a new right-of-way within or overlapping the existing right-of-way for the new use.
(c) An example of a use within the same scope is a right-of-way for underground telephone line being used for an underground fiber optic line, and an example of a use that is not within the same scope is a right-of-way for a pipeline being used for a road or railroad.
§ 169.128
When will BIA grant a right-of-way for a new use within or overlapping an existing right-of-way?
We may grant a new right-of-way within or overlapping an existing right-of-way if it meets the following conditions:
(a) The applicant follows the procedures and requirements in this part to obtain a new right-of-way.
(b) The new right-of-way does not interfere with the use or purpose of the existing right-of-way and the applicant has obtained the consent of the existing right-of-way grantee. The existing right-of-way grantee may not unreasonably withhold consent.
§ 169.129
What is required if the location described in the original application and grant differs from the construction location?
(a) If engineering or other complications prevented construction within the location identified in the original application and grant, and required a minor deviation from the location identified in the original application and grant, then we and the tribe, for tribal land, will determine whether the change in location requires one or more of the following:
(1) An amended map of definite location;
(2) Landowner consent;
(3) A valuation or, with landowner consent, a recalculation of compensation;
(4) Additional compensation or security; or
(5) Other actions required to comply with applicable laws.
(b) If BIA and the tribe, for tribal land, determine it is not a minor deviation in location, we may require a new right-of-way grant or amendment to the right-of-way grant.
(c) If we grant a right-of-way for the new route or location, the applicant must execute instruments to extinguish, or amend, as appropriate, the right-of-way at the original location identified in the application.
(d) We will transmit the instruments to extinguish or amend the right-of-way to the LTRO for recording.
§ 169.130
Must a right-of-way grant address ownership of permanent improvements?
(a) A right-of-way grant must specify who will own any permanent improvements the grantee constructs during the grant term and may specify under what conditions, if any, permanent improvements the grantee constructs may be conveyed to the Indian landowners during the grant term. In addition, the grant may indicate whether each specific permanent improvement the grantee constructs will:
(1) Remain on the premises, upon the expiration, cancellation, or termination of the grant, in a condition satisfactory to the Indian landowners, and become the property of the Indian landowners;
(2) Be removed within a time period specified in the grant, at the grantee's expense, with the premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before construction of the permanent improvements; or
(3) Be disposed of by other specified means.
(b) A grant that requires the grantee to remove the permanent improvements must also provide the Indian landowners with an option to take possession of and title to the permanent improvements if the improvements are not removed within the specified time period.

# Subpart D—Duration, Renewals, Amendments, Assignments, Mortgages

# Duration

# Renewals
§ 169.201
How long may the duration of a right-of-way grant be?
(a) All rights-of-way granted under this part are limited to the time periods stated in the grant.
(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the right-of-way term is reasonable.
(c) For individually owned Indian land, we will review the right-of-way duration to ensure that it is reasonable, given the purpose of the right-of-way. We will generally consider a maximum duration of 20 years to be reasonable for the initial term for rights-of-way for oil and gas purposes and a maximum of 50 years, inclusive of the initial term and any renewals, to be reasonable for rights-of-way for all other purposes. We will consider a duration consistent with use to be reasonable for rights-of-way for conservation easements. We will consider durations different from these guidelines if a different duration would benefit the Indian landowners, is required by another Federal agency, or the tribe has negotiated for a different duration and the right-of-way crosses tribal land.
§ 169.202
Under what circumstances will a grant of right-of-way be renewed?
A renewal is an extension of term of an existing right-of-way without any other change.
(a) The grantee may request a renewal of an existing right-of-way grant and we will renew the grant as long as:
(1) The initial term and renewal terms, together, do not exceed the maximum term determined to be reasonable under § 169.201;
(2) The existing right-of-way grant explicitly allows for automatic renewal or an option to renew and specifies compensation owed to the landowners upon renewal or how compensation will be determined;
(3) The grantee provides us with a signed affidavit that there is no change in size, type, or location, of the right-of-way;
(4) The initial term has not yet ended;
(5) No uncured violation exists regarding the regulations in this part or the grant's conditions or restrictions; and
(6) The grantee provides confirmation that landowner consent has been obtained, or if consent is not required because the original right-of-way grant explicitly allows for renewal without the owners' consent, the grantee provides notice to the landowners of the renewal.
(b) We will record any renewal of a right-of-way grant in the LTRO.
(c) If the proposed renewal involves any change to the original grant or the original grant was silent as to renewals, the grantee must reapply for a new right-of-way, in accordance with § 169.101, and we will handle the application for renewal as an original application for a right-of-way.
§ 169.203
May a right-of-way be renewed multiple times?
There is no prohibition on renewing a right-of-way multiple times, unless the grant expressly prohibits multiple renewals, and subject to the duration limitations for individually owned land in § 169.201. The provisions of § 169.202 apply to each renewal.

# Amendments
§ 169.204
May a grantee amend a right-of-way?
(a) An amendment is required to change any provisions of a right-of-way grant. If the change is a material change to the grant, we may require application for a new right-of-way instead.
(b) A grantee may request that we amend a right-of-way to make an administrative modification (
i.e.,
a modification that is clerical in nature, for example to correct the legal description) without meeting consent requirements, as long as the grantee provides landowners with written notice. For all other amendments, the grantee must meet the consent requirements in § 169.107 and obtain our approval.
§ 169.205
What is the approval process for an amendment of a right-of-way?
(a) When we receive an amendment for our approval, we will notify the grantee of the date we receive it. We have 30 days from receipt of the executed amendment, proof of required consents, and required documentation (including but not limited to a corrected legal description, if any, and NEPA compliance) to approve or disapprove the amendment. Our determination whether to approve the amendment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we need additional time to review, our letter informing the parties that we need additional time for review must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter. We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the amendment.
(c) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, or paragraph (b) of this section if applicable, the grantee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 169.304.
§ 169.206
How will BIA decide whether to approve an amendment of a right-of-way?
(a) We may disapprove a request for an amendment of a right-of-way only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented to the amendment under § 169.107 and we have not consented on their behalf under § 169.108;
(2) The grantee's sureties for the bonds or alternative securities have not consented;
(3) The grantee is in violation of the right-of-way grant;
(4) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(5) We find a compelling reason to withhold approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the amendment is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an amendment.

# Assignments
§ 169.207
May a grantee assign a right-of-way?
(a) A grantee may assign a right-of-way by:
(1) Meeting the consent requirements in § 169.107, unless the grant expressly allows for assignments without further consent; and
(2) Either obtaining our approval, or meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A grantee may assign a right-of-way without BIA approval only if:
(1) The original right-of-way grant expressly allows for assignment without BIA approval; and
(2) The assignee and grantee provide a copy of the assignment and supporting documentation to BIA for recording in the LTRO within 30 days of the assignment.
(c) Assignments that are the result of a corporate merger, acquisition, or transfer by operation of law are excluded from these requirements, except for the requirement to provide a copy of the assignment and supporting documentation to BIA for recording in the LTRO within 30 days and to the tribe for tribal land.
§ 169.208
What is the approval process for an assignment of a right-of-way?
(a) When we receive an assignment for our approval, we will notify the grantee of the date we receive it. If our approval is required, we have 30 days from receipt of the executed assignment, proof of any required consents, and any required documentation to approve or disapprove the assignment. Our determination whether to approve the assignment will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the grantee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 169.304.
§ 169.209
How will BIA decide whether to approve an assignment of a right-of-way?
(a) We may disapprove an assignment of a right-of-way only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented to the assignment under § 169.107 and their consent is required;
(2) Sufficient bonding and/or insurance are not in place;
(3) The grantee is in violation of the right-of-way grant;
(4) The assignee does not agree to be bound by the terms of the right-of-way grant;
(5) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(6) We find a compelling reason to withhold approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the assignment is in their best interest.
(c) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of an assignment.

# Mortgages
§ 169.210
May a grantee mortgage a right-of-way?
A grantee may mortgage a right-of-way, if the grant expressly allows mortgaging. The grantee must meet the consent requirements in § 169.107, unless the grant expressly allows for mortgaging without consent, and must obtain our approval for the mortgage.
§ 169.211
What is the approval process for a mortgage of a right-of-way?
(a) When we receive a right-of-way mortgage for our approval, we will notify the grantee of the date we receive it. We have 30 days from receipt of the executed mortgage, proof of required consents, and required documentation to approve or disapprove the mortgage. Our determination whether to approve the mortgage will be in writing and will state the basis for our approval or disapproval.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, the grantee or Indian landowners may take appropriate action under § 169.304.
§ 169.212
How will BIA decide whether to approve a mortgage of a right-of-way?
(a) We may disapprove a right-of-way mortgage only if at least one of the following is true:
(1) The Indian landowners have not consented;
(2) The grantee's sureties for the bonds have not consented;
(3) The requirements of this subpart have not been met; or
(4) We find a compelling reason to withhold approval in order to protect the best interests of the Indian landowners.
(b) In making the finding required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, we may consider whether:
(1) The mortgage proceeds would be used for purposes unrelated to the right-of-way purpose; and
(2) The mortgage is limited to the right-of-way.
(c) We will defer, to the maximum extent possible, to the Indian landowners' determination that the mortgage is in their best interest.
(d) We may not unreasonably withhold approval of a right-of-way mortgage.

# Subpart E—Effectiveness
§ 169.301
When will a right-of-way document be effective?
(a) A right-of-way document will be effective on the date we approve the right-of-way document, even if an appeal is filed under part 2 of this chapter.
(b) The right-of-way document may specify a date on which the grantee's obligations are triggered. Such date may be before or after the approval date under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 169.302
Must a right-of-way be recorded?
(a) Any right-of-way document must be recorded in our LTRO with jurisdiction over the affected Indian land.
(1) We will record the right-of-way document immediately following our approval or granting.
(2) In the case of assignments that do not require our approval under § 169.207(b), the parties must provide us with a copy of the assignment and we will record the assignment in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the affected Indian land.
(b) The tribe must record right-of-way documents for the following types of rights-of-way in the LTRO with jurisdiction over the affected Indian lands, even though BIA approval is not required:
(1) Grants on tribal land for a tribal utility under § 169.4;
(2) Grants on tribal land under a special act of Congress authorizing grants without our approval under certain conditions.
§ 169.303
What happens if BIA denies a right-of-way document?
If we deny the right-of-way grant, renewal, amendment, assignment, or mortgage, we will notify the parties immediately and advise the landowners and the applicant of their right to appeal the decision under part 2 of this chapter.
§ 169.304
What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a right-of-way document?
(a) If a Superintendent does not meet a deadline for granting or denying a right-of-way, renewal, amendment, assignment, or mortgage, the parties may file a written notice to compel action with the appropriate Regional Director.
(b) The Regional Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Grant or deny the right-of-way; or
(2) Order the Superintendent to grant or deny the right-of-way within the time set out in the order.
(c) Either party may file a written notice to compel action with the BIA Director if:
(1) The Regional Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The Superintendent does not grant or deny the right-of-way within the time set by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(3) The initial decision on the right-of-way, renewal, amendment, assignment, or mortgage is with the Regional Director, and he or she does not meet the deadline for such decision.
(d) The BIA Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:
(1) Grant or deny the right-of-way; or
(2) Order the Regional Director or Superintendent to grant or deny the right-of-way within the time set out in the order.
(e) If the Regional Director or Superintendent does not grant or deny the right-of-way within the time set out in the order under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the BIA Director must issue a decision within 15 days from the expiration of the time set out in the order.
(f) The parties may file an appeal from our inaction to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the BIA Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(g) The provisions of 25 CFR 2.8 do not apply to the inaction of BIA officials with respect to a granting or denying a right-of-way, renewal, amendment, assignment, or mortgage under this subpart.
§ 169.305
Will BIA require an appeal bond for an appeal of a decision on a right-of-way document?
(a) If a party appeals our decision on a right-of-way document, then the official to whom the appeal is made may require the appellant to post an appeal bond in accordance with part 2 of this chapter. We will not require an appeal bond if the tribe is a party to the appeal and requests a waiver of the appeal bond.
(b) The appellant may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The appellant may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.

# Subpart F—Compliance and Enforcement
§ 169.401
What is the purpose and scope of this subpart?
This subpart describes the procedures we use to address compliance and enforcement related to rights-of-way on Indian land. Any abandonment, non-use, or violation of the right-of-way grant or right-of-way document, including but not limited to encroachments beyond the defined boundaries, accidental, willful, and/or incidental trespass, unauthorized new construction, changes in use not permitted in the grant, and late or insufficient payment may result in enforcement actions including, but not limited to, cancellation of the grant.
§ 169.402
Who may investigate compliance with a right-of-way?
(a) BIA may investigate compliance with a right-of-way.
(1) If an Indian landowner notifies us that a specific abandonment, non-use, or violation has occurred, we will promptly initiate an appropriate investigation.
(2) We may enter the Indian land subject to a right-of-way at any reasonable time, upon reasonable notice, and consistent with any notice requirements under applicable tribal law and applicable grant documents, to protect the interests of the Indian landowners and to determine if the grantee is in compliance with the requirements of the right-of-way.
(b) The tribe with jurisdiction may investigate compliance consistent with tribal law.
§ 169.403
May a right-of-way provide for negotiated remedies?
(a) The tribe and the grantee on tribal land may negotiate remedies for a violation, abandonment, or non-use. The negotiated remedies must be stated in the tribe's consent to the right-of-way grant, which BIA will then incorporate into the grant itself. The negotiated remedies may include, but are not limited to, the power to terminate the right-of-way grant. If the negotiated remedies provide one or both parties with the power to terminate the grant:
(1) BIA approval of the termination is not required;
(2) The termination is effective without BIA cancellation; and
(3) The tribe must provide us with written notice of the termination so that we may record it in the LTRO.
(b) The Indian landowners and the grantee to a right-of-way grant on individually owned Indian land may negotiate remedies, so long as the consent
also specifies the manner in which those remedies may be exercised by or on behalf of the Indian landowners of the majority interest under § 169.107. If the negotiated remedies provide one or both parties with the power to terminate the grant:
(1) BIA concurrence with the termination is required to ensure that the Indian landowners of the applicable percentage of interests have consented; and
(2) BIA will record the termination in the LTRO.
(c) The parties must notify any surety of any violation that may result in termination and the termination of a right-of-way.
(d) Negotiated remedies may apply in addition to, or instead of, the cancellation remedy available to us, as specified in the right-of-way grant. The landowners may request our assistance in enforcing negotiated remedies.
(e) A right-of-way grant may provide that violations will be addressed by a tribe, and that disputes will be resolved by a tribal court, any other court of competent jurisdiction, or by a tribal governing body in the absence of a tribal court, or through an alternative dispute resolution method. We may not be bound by decisions made in such forums, but we will defer to ongoing actions or proceedings, as appropriate, in deciding whether to exercise any of the remedies available to us.
§ 169.404
What will BIA do about a violation of a right-of-way grant?
(a) In the absence of actions or proceedings described in § 169.403 (negotiated remedies), or if it is not appropriate for us to defer to the actions or proceedings, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. We will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, communicate with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether a violation has occurred.
(b) If we determine there has been a violation of the conditions of a grant, other than a violation of payment provisions covered by paragraph (c) of this section, we will promptly send the grantee a written notice of violation.
(1) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(2) The notice of violation will advise the grantee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the grantee must:
(i) Cure the violation and notify us, and the tribe for tribal land, in writing that the violation has been cured;
(ii) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred; or
(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.
(3) The notice of violation may order the grantee to cease operations under the right-of-way grant.
(c) A grantee's failure to pay compensation in the time and manner required by a right-of-way grant is a violation, and we will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) We will send the grantees a written notice of violation promptly following the date on which the payment was due.
(2) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.
(3) The notice of violation will require the grantee to provide adequate proof of payment.
(d) The grantee will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the grant until the grant expires, or is terminated or cancelled, as well as any reclamation or other obligations that survive the end of the grant.
§ 169.405
What will BIA do if the grantee does not cure a violation of a right-of-way grant on time?
(a) If the grantee does not cure a violation of a right-of-way grant within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, we will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, communicate with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether:
(1) We should cancel the grant;
(2) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the grant;
(3) We should invoke other remedies available under the grant or applicable law, including collection on any available bond or, for failure to pay compensation, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or
(4) The grantee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) Following consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, communication with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, we may take action to recover unpaid compensation and any associated late payment charges.
(1) We need not cancel the grant or give any further notice to the grantee before taking action to recover unpaid compensation.
(2) We may take action to recover any unpaid compensation even though we cancel the grant.
(c) If we decide to cancel the grant, we will send the grantee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 5 business days of our decision. We will send a copy of the cancellation letter to the tribe for tribal land, and will provide Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land with actual notice of the cancellation. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) If applicable, notify the grantee of the amount of any unpaid compensation or late payment charges due under the grant;
(3) Notify the grantee of the grantee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, including the possibility that the official to whom the appeal is made may require the grantee to post an appeal bond;
(4) Order the grantee to vacate the property within the timeframe reflected in the termination terms of the grant, or within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, or within such longer period of time in extraordinary circumstances considering the protection of trust resources and the best interest of the Indian landowners, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and
(5) Order the grantee to take any other action BIA deems necessary to protect the Indian land.
(d) We may invoke any other remedies available to us under the grant, including collecting on any available bond, and the Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under tribal law.
(e) We will issue an appropriate instrument cancelling the right-of-way and transmit it to the LTRO pursuant to 25 CFR part 150 for recording and filing.
§ 169.406
Will late payment charges, penalties, or special fees apply to delinquent payments due under a right-of-way grant?
(a) Late payment charges and penalties will apply as specified in the grant. The failure to pay these amounts will be treated as a violation.
(b) We may assess the following special fees to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt, if compensation is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to the late payment charges that must be paid to the Indian landowners under the grant:
The grantee will pay . . .
For . . .
(1) $50.00
Any dishonored check.
(2) $15.00
Processing of each notice or demand letter.
(3) 18 percent of balance due
Treasury processing following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 169.407
How will payment rights relating to a right-of-way grant be allocated?
The right-of-way grant may allocate rights to payment for any proceeds, trespass damages, condemnation awards, settlement funds, and other payments between the Indian landowners and the grantee. If not specified in the grant, applicable policy, order, award, judgment, or other document, the Indian landowners will be entitled to receive these payments.
§ 169.408
What is the process for cancelling a right-of-way for non-use or abandonment?
(a) We may cancel, in whole or in part, any rights-of-way granted under this part 30 days after mailing written notice to the grantee at its latest address, for a nonuse of the right-of-way for a consecutive 2-year period for the purpose for which it was granted. If the grantee fails to correct the basis for cancellation by the 30th day after we mailed the notice, we will issue an appropriate instrument cancelling the right-of-way and transmit it to the LTRO pursuant to part 150 of this chapter for recording and filing.
(b) We may cancel, in whole or in part, any rights-of-way granted under this part immediately upon abandonment of the right-of-way by the grantee. We will issue an appropriate instrument cancelling the right-of-way and transmit it to the LTRO pursuant to part 150 of this chapter for recording and filing.
(c) The cancellation notice will notify the grantee of the grantee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, including the possibility of that the official to whom the appeal is made will require the grantee to post an appeal bond.
§ 169.409
When will a cancellation of a right-of-way grant be effective?
(a) A cancellation involving a right-of-way grant will not be effective until 31 days after the grantee receives a cancellation letter from us, or 41 days from the date we mailed the letter, whichever is earlier.
(b) The cancellation decision will not be effective if an appeal is filed unless the cancellation is made immediately effective under part 2 of this chapter. When a cancellation decision is not immediately effective, the grantee must continue to pay compensation and comply with the other terms of the grant.
§ 169.410
What will BIA do if a grantee remains in possession after a right-of-way expires or is terminated or cancelled?
If a grantee remains in possession after the expiration, termination, or cancellation of a right-of-way, and is not accessing the land to perform reclamation or other remaining grant obligations, we may treat the unauthorized possession as a trespass under applicable law and will communicate with the Indian landowners in making the determination whether to treat the unauthorized possession as a trespass. Unless the parties have notified us in writing that they are engaged in good faith negotiations to renew or obtain a new right-of-way, we may take action to recover possession on behalf of the Indian landowners, and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law, such as a forcible entry and detainer action. The holdover time will be charged against the new term.
§ 169.411
Will BIA appeal bond regulations apply to cancellation decisions involving right-of-way grants?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal bond provisions in part 2 of this chapter will govern appeals from right-of-way cancellation decisions.
(b) The grantee may not appeal the appeal bond decision. The grantee may, however, request that the official to whom the appeal is made reconsider the appeal bond decision, based on extraordinary circumstances. Any reconsideration decision is final for the Department.
§ 169.412
When will BIA issue a decision on an appeal from a right-of-way decision?
BIA will issue a decision on an appeal from a right-of-way decision within 60 days of receipt of all pleadings.
§ 169.413
What if an individual or entity takes possession of or uses Indian land or BIA land without a right-of-way or other proper authorization?
If an individual or entity takes possession of, or uses, Indian land or BIA land without a right-of-way and a right-of-way is required, the unauthorized possession or use is a trespass. An unauthorized use within an existing right-of-way is also a trespass. We may take action to recover possession, including eviction, on behalf of the Indian landowners and pursue any additional remedies available under applicable law. The Indian landowners may
pursue any available remedies under applicable law, including applicable tribal law.
§ 169.414
May BIA take emergency action if Indian land is threatened?
(a) We may take appropriate emergency action if there is a natural disaster or if an individual or entity causes or threatens to cause immediate and significant harm to Indian land or BIA land. Emergency action may include judicial action seeking immediate cessation of the activity resulting in or threatening the harm.
(b) We will make reasonable efforts to notify the individual Indian landowners before and after taking emergency action on Indian land. In all cases, we will notify the Indian landowners after taking emergency action on Indian land. We will provide written notification of our action to the Indian tribe exercising jurisdiction over the Indian land before and after taking emergency action on Indian land.
§ 169.415
How will BIA conduct compliance and enforcement when there is a life estate on the tract?
(a) We may monitor the use of the land, as appropriate, and will enforce the terms of the right-of-way on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests, but will not be responsible for enforcing the right-of-way on behalf of the life tenant.
(b) The life tenant may not cause or allow permanent injury to the land.
Pt. 170

# PART 170—TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Policies, Applicability, and Definitions
Sec.
170.1
What does this part do?
170.2
What policies govern the TTP?
170.3
When do other requirements apply to the TTP?
170.4
How does this part affect existing Tribal rights?
170.5
What definitions apply to this part?
170.6
Acronyms.
170.7
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility

# Consultation, Collaboration, Coordination
170.100
What do the terms “consultation,” “collaboration,” and “coordination” mean?
170.101
What is the TTP consultation and coordination policy?
170.102
What goals and principles guide program implementation?
170.103
Is consultation with Tribal governments required before obligating TTP funds for direct service activities?
170.104
Are funds available for consultation, collaboration, and coordination activities?
170.105
When must State governments consult with Tribes?
170.106
Should planning organizations and local governments consult with Tribes when planning for transportation projects?
170.107
Should Tribes and BIA consult with planning organizations and local governments in developing projects?
170.108
How do the Secretaries prevent discrimination or adverse impacts?
170.109
How can State and local governments prevent discrimination or adverse impacts?
170.110
What if discrimination or adverse impacts occur?

# Eligible Uses of TTP Funds
170.111
What activities may be carried out using TTP funds?
170.112
What activities are not eligible for TTP funding?
170.113
How can a Tribe determine whether a new use of funds is allowable?

# Use of TTP and Cultural Site or Area Entry Roads
170.114
What restrictions apply to the use of a Tribal transportation facility?
170.115
What is a cultural site or area entry road?
170.116
Can a Tribe close a cultural site or area entry road?

# Seasonal Transportation Routes
170.117
Can TTP funds be used on seasonal transportation routes?

# TTP Housing Site or Area Entry Roads
170.118
What terms apply to TTP housing site or area entry roads?
170.119
Are housing site or area entry roads and housing streets eligible for TTP funding?

# Toll, Ferry, and Airport Facilities
170.120
How can Tribes use Federal highway funds for toll and ferry facilities?
170.121
Where is information about designing and operating a toll facility available?
170.122
When can a Tribe use TTP funds for airport facilities?

# Recreation, Tourism, and Trails
170.123
Can a Tribe use Federal funds for its recreation, tourism, and trails program?
170.124
How can a Tribe obtain funds?
170.125
What types of activities can a recreation, tourism, and trails program include?
170.126
Can roads be built in roadless and wild areas?

# TTP Safety
170.127
What are the TTP Safety Funds?
170.128
What activities are eligible for TTP-S funds?
170.129
How will Tribes receive TTP-S funds?
170.130
How can Tribes obtain non-TTP funds for highway safety projects?

# Transit Facilities
170.131
How do Tribes identify transit needs?
170.132
What Federal funds are available for a Tribe's transit program?
170.133
May a Tribe or BIA use TTP funds as matching funds?
170.134
What transit facilities and activities are eligible for TTP funding?

# TTP Coordinating Committee
170.135
What is the TTP Coordinating Committee?
170.136
What are the TTP Coordinating Committee's responsibilities?
170.137
How does the TTP Coordinating Committee conduct business?

# Tribal Technical Assistance Centers
170.138
What are Tribal Technical Assistance Centers?
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 170—Allowable Uses of TTP funds
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 170—Sources of Tribal Transportation Training and Education Opportunities

# Subpart C—Tribal Transportation Program Funding
170.200
How do BIA and FHWA determine the TTP funding amount?
170.201
What is the statutory distribution formula for Tribal shares?
170.202
How do BIA and FHWA determine and distribute the Tribal supplemental program funds?
170.203
How are Tribal transportation planning funds provided to Tribes?
170.204
What restrictions apply to TTP funds provided to Tribes?
170.205
What is the timeframe for distributing TTP funds?

# Formula Data Appeals
170.226
How can a Tribe appeal its share calculation?

# Flexible Financing
170.227
Can Tribes use flexible financing for TTP projects?
170.228
Can a Tribe use TTP funds to leverage other funds or pay back loans?
170.229
Can a Tribe apply for loans or credit from a State infrastructure bank?
170.230
How long must a project financed through flexible financing remain on a TTPTIP?

# TTP Data Reporting
170.240
What TTP project and activity data must be submitted annually to the Secretaries?

# Subpart D—Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities

# Transportation Planning
170.400
What is the purpose of transportation planning?
170.401
What are BIA's and FHWA's roles in transportation planning?
170.402
What is the Tribal role in transportation planning?
170.403
What TTP funds can be used for transportation planning?
170.404
Can Tribes use transportation planning funds for other activities?
170.405
How must Tribes use planning funds?
170.406-170.408
[Reserved]
170.409
What is the purpose of long-range transportation planning?
170.410
How does a long-range transportation plan relate to the NTTFI?
170.411
What should a long-range transportation plan include?
170.412
How is the Tribal TTP long-range transportation plan developed and approved?
170.413
What is the public's role in developing the long-range transportation plan?
170.414
How is the Tribal long-range transportation plan used and updated?
170.415
What are pre-project planning and project identification studies?
170.420
What is the Tribal priority list?

# Tribal Transportation Improvement Programs
170.421
What is the Tribal Transportation Improvement Program (TTIP)?
170.422
How does the public participate in developing the TTIP?
170.423
How are annual updates or amendments to the TTIP conducted?
170.424
What is the TTP Transportation Improvement Program (TTPTIP)?

# Public Hearings
170.435
When is a public hearing required?
170.436
How are public hearings for TTP planning and projects funded?
170.437
If there is no hearing, how must BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe inform the public?
170.438
How must BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe inform the public when a hearing is held?
170.439
How is a public hearing conducted?
170.440
How can the public learn the results of a public hearing?
170.441
Can a decision resulting from a hearing be appealed?

# National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory
170.442
What is the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory?
170.443
What is required to successfully include a proposed transportation facility in the NTTFI?
170.444
How is the NTTFI updated?
170.445
[Reserved]
170.446
What minimum attachments are required for an NTTFI submission?
170.447
How are the allowable lengths of access roads in the NTTFI determined?

# Environmental and Archeological Requirements
170.450
What archeological and environmental requirements must the TTP meet?
170.451
Can TTP funds be used for archeological and environmental compliance?
170.452
When can TTP funds be used for archeological and environmental activities?
170.453
Do the Categorical Exclusions under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the regulations at 23 CFR 771 apply to TTP activities?

# Design
170.454
What design standards are used in the TTP?
170.455
What other factors must influence project design?
170.456
How can a Tribe request an exception from the design standards?
170.457
Can a Tribe appeal a denial?

# Review and Approval of Plans, Specifications and Estimates
170.460
What must a project package include?
170.461
May a Tribe approve plans, specifications, and estimates?
170.463
What if a design deficiency is identified?

# Construction and Construction Monitoring
170.470
Which construction standards must Tribes use?
170.471
How are projects administered?
170.472
What construction records must Tribes and BIA keep?
170.473
When is a project complete?
170.474
Who conducts the project closeout?

# Management Systems
170.502
Are nationwide management systems required for the TTP?

# Tribal Transportation Facility Bridges
170.510
What funds are available for Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge activities?
170.511
What activities are eligible for Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge funds?
170.512
How will Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge funds be made available to the Tribes?
170.513
When and how are bridge inspections performed?
170.514
Who reviews bridge inspection reports?
Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 170—Cultural Resource and Environmental Requirements for the TTP
Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 170—Design Standards for the TTP

# Subpart E—Service Delivery for Tribal Transportation Program

# Funding Process
170.600
What must BIA include in the notice of funds availability?
170.602
If a Tribe incurs unforeseen construction costs, can it get additional funds?

# Miscellaneous Provisions
170.605
May BIA or FHWA use force-account methods in the TTP?
170.606
How do legislation and procurement requirements affect the TTP?
170.607
Can a Tribe use its allocation of TTP funds for contract support costs?
170.608
Can a Tribe pay contract support costs from DOI or BIA appropriations?
170.609
Can a Tribe receive additional TTP funds for start-up activities?

# Contracts and Agreements
170.610
Which TTP functions may a Tribe assume?
170.611
What special provisions apply to ISDEAA contracts and agreements?
170.612
Can non-contractible functions and activities be included in contracts or agreements?
170.613
What funds are used to pay for non-contractible functions and activities?
170.614
Can a Tribe receive funds before BIA publishes the final notice of funding availability?
170.615
Can a Tribe receive advance payments for non-construction activities under the TTP?
170.616
How are payments made to Tribes if additional funds are available?
170.617
May a Tribe include a contingency in its proposal budget?
170.618
Can a Tribe keep savings resulting from project administration?
170.619
Do Tribal preference and Indian preference apply to TTP funding?
170.620
How do ISDEAA's Indian preference provisions apply?
170.621
What if a Tribe doesn't perform work under a contract or agreement?
170.622
What TTP functions, services, and activities are subject to the self-governance construction regulations?
170.623
How are TTP projects and activities included in a self- governance agreement?
170.624
Is technical assistance available?
170.625
What regulations apply to waivers?
170.626
How does a Tribe request a waiver of a Department of Transportation regulation?
170.627
Can non-TTP funds be provided to a Tribe through an FHWA Program Agreement, BIA TTP Agreement, or other appropriate agreement?
Appendix to Subpart E of Part 170—List of Program Functions That Cannot be Subcontracted

# Subpart F—Program Oversight and Accountability
170.700
What is the TTP national business plan?
170.701
May a direct service Tribe and BIA Region sign a Memorandum of Understanding?
170.702
What activities may the Secretaries review and monitor?
170.703
What program reviews do the Secretaries conduct?
170.704
What happens when the review process identifies areas for improvement?

# Subpart G—Maintenance
170.800
What funds are available for maintenance activities?
170.801
Can TTP funds designated on an FHWA-approved TTIP for maintenance be used to improve TTP transportation facilities?
170.802
Can a Tribe perform road maintenance?
170.803
To what standards must a Tribal transportation facility be maintained?
170.804
Who should be contacted if a Tribal transportation facility is not being maintained to TTP standards due to insufficient funding?
170.805
What maintenance activities are eligible for TTP funding?
Appendix to Subpart G of Part 170—List of Eligible Maintenance Activities Under the Tribal Transportation Program

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Provisions

# Reporting Requirements and Indian Preference
170.910
What information on the TTP or projects must BIA or FHWA provide?
170.911
Are Indians entitled to employment and training preferences?
170.912
Does Indian employment preference apply to Federal-aid Highway Projects?
170.913
Do Tribal-specific employment rights and contract preference laws apply?
170.914
What is the difference between Tribal preference and Indian preference?
170.915
May Tribal employment taxes or fees be included in a TTP project budget?
170.916
May Tribes impose taxes or fees on those performing TTP services?
170.917
Can Tribes receive direct payment of Tribal employment taxes or fees?
170.918
What applies to the Secretaries' collection of data under the TTP?

# Tribal Transportation Departments
170.930
What is a Tribal transportation department?
170.931
Can Tribes use TTP funds to pay Tribal transportation department operating costs?
170.932
Are there other funding sources for Tribal transportation departments?
170.933
Can Tribes regulate oversize or overweight vehicles?

# Resolving Disputes
170.934
Are alternative dispute resolution procedures available?
170.935
How does a direct service Tribe begin the alternative dispute resolution process?

# Other Miscellaneous Provisions
170.941
May Tribes become involved in transportation research?
170.942
Can a Tribe use Federal funds for transportation services for quality-of-life programs?

# Authority:
Pub. L. 112-141, Pub. L. 114-94; 5 U.S.C. 2; 23 U.S.C. 201, 202; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9.

# Source:
81 FR 78463, Nov. 7, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Policies, Applicability, and Definitions
§ 170.1
What does this part do?
This part provides rules and references to the statutory funding formula for the Department of the Interior (DOI), in cooperation with the Department of Transportation (DOT), to implement the Tribal Transportation Program (TTP). Included in this part are references to other title 23 and title 25 transportation programs administered by the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) and the Secretary of Transportation (together, the “Secretaries”) and implemented by Tribes and Consortiums in accordance with the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (ISDEAA), as amended, FHWA program agreements, and other appropriate agreements.
§ 170.2
What policies govern the TTP?
(a) The Secretaries' policy for the TTP is to:
(1) Provide a uniform and consistent set of rules;
(2) Foster knowledge of the programs by providing information about them and the opportunities that they create;
(3) Facilitate Tribal planning, conduct, and administration of the programs;
(4) Encourage inclusion of these programs under self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements;
(5) Make available all contractible non-inherently Federal administrative functions under self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements; and
(6) Carry out policies, procedures, and practices in consultation with Indian Tribes to ensure the letter, spirit, and goals of Federal transportation programs are fully implemented.
(b) Where this part differs from provisions in the ISDEAA, this part should advance the policy of increasing Tribal autonomy and discretion in program operation.
(c) This part is designed to enable Indian Tribes to participate in all contractible activities of the TTP. The Secretaries will afford Indian Tribes the flexibility, information, and discretion to design transportation programs under self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements to meet the needs of their communities consistent with this part.
(d) Programs, functions, services, and activities, regardless of how they are administered, are an exercise of Indian Tribes' self-determination and self-governance.
(1) The Tribe is responsible for managing the day-to-day operation of its contracted Federal programs, functions, services, and activities.
(2) The Tribe accepts responsibility and accountability to the beneficiaries under self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements for:
(i) Use of the funds; and
(ii) Satisfactory performance of all activities funded under the contract or agreement.
(3) The Secretary will continue to discharge the trust responsibilities to protect and conserve the trust resources of Tribes and the trust resources of individual Indians.
(e) The Secretary should interpret Federal laws and regulations to facilitate including programs covered by this part in the government-to-government agreements authorized under ISDEAA.
(f) The administrative functions referenced in paragraph (a)(5) of this section are contractible without regard to the organizational level within the DOI that carries out these functions. Including TTP administrative functions under self-determination contracts, self- governance agreements, program agreements or other appropriate agreements, does not limit or reduce the funding for any program or service serving any other Tribe.
(g) The Secretaries are not required to reduce funding for a Tribe under these programs to make funds available to another Tribe.
(h) This part must be liberally construed for the benefit of Tribes and to implement the Federal policy of self-determination and self-governance.
(i) Any ambiguities in this part must be construed in favor of the Tribes to facilitate and enable the transfer of programs authorized by 23 U.S.C. 201 and 202 and title 25 of the U.S.C.
§ 170.3
When do other requirements apply to the TTP?
TTP policies, guidance, and directives apply, to the extent permitted by law, only if they are consistent with this part and 25 CFR parts 900 and 1000. See 25 CFR 900.5 for when a Tribe must comply with other unpublished requirements.
§ 170.4
How does this part affect existing Tribal rights?
This part does not:
(a) Affect Tribes' sovereign immunity from suit;
(b) Terminate or reduce the trust responsibility of the United States to Tribes or individual Indians;
(c) Require a Tribe to assume a program relating to the TTP; or
(d) Impede awards by other agencies of the United States or a State to Tribes to administer programs under any other law.
§ 170.5
What definitions apply to this part?
Access road
means a public highway or road that provides access to Tribal land and appears on the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (NTTFI).
Agreement
means a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement or other appropriate agreement authorized under 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(2), developed in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(6) and(b)(7) as well as 23 U.S.C. 207, to fund and manage the programs, functions, services and activities transferred to a Tribe.
Appeal
means a request by a Tribe or consortium for an administrative review of an adverse agency decision.
Asset management
as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(2) means a strategic and systematic process of operating, maintaining, and improving physical assets, with a focus on both engineering and economic analysis based upon quality information, to identify a structured sequence of maintenance, preservation, repair, rehabilitation, and replacement actions that will achieve and sustain a desired state of good repair over the lifecycle of the assets at minimum practicable cost.
BIA Force Account
means the performance of work done by BIA employees.
BIA Road System
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs Road System under the NTTFI and includes only those existing and proposed facilities for which the BIA has or plans to obtain legal right-of-way.
BIA System Inventory
means Bureau of Indian Affairs System Inventory under the NTTFI that includes the BIA Road System, Tribally owned public roads, and facilities not owned by an Indian Tribal government or the BIA in the States of Oklahoma and Alaska that were used to generate road mileage for computation of the funding formula in the Indian Reservation Roads Program prior to October 1, 2004.
Consortium
means an organization or association of Tribes that is authorized by those Tribes to negotiate and execute an Agreement to receive funding, manage, and carry out the program functions, services, and activities associated with the Tribal Transportation Program on behalf its member Tribes.
Construction,
as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(4), means the supervising, inspecting, actual building, and incurrence of all costs incidental to the construction or reconstruction of a Tribal transportation facility, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(31). The term includes—
(1) Preliminary engineering, engineering, and design-related services directly relating to the construction of a Tribal transportation facility project, including engineering, design, project development and management, construction project management and inspection, surveying, mapping (including the establishment of temporary and permanent geodetic control under specifications of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration), and architectural-related services;
(2) Reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, rehabilitation, and preservation;
(3) Acquisition of rights-of-way;
(4) Relocation assistance, acquisition of replacement housing sites, and acquisition and rehabilitation, relocation, and construction of replacement housing;
(5) Elimination of hazards of railway-highway grade crossings;
(6) Elimination of roadside hazards;
(7) Improvements that directly facilitate and control traffic flow, such as grade separation of intersections, widening of lanes, channelization of traffic, traffic control systems, and passenger loading and unloading areas; and
(8) Capital improvements that directly facilitate an effective vehicle weight enforcement program, such as scales (fixed and portable), scale pits, scale installation, and scale houses.
Construction contract
means a fixed price or cost reimbursement self-determination contract for a construction project or an eligible TTP funded road maintenance project, except that such term does not include any contract—
(1) That is limited to providing planning services and construction management services (or a combination of such services);
(2) For the housing improvement program or roads maintenance program of the BIA administered by the Secretary; or
(3) For the health facility maintenance and improvement program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Contract
means a self-determination contract as defined in section 4(j) of the ISDEAA or a procurement document issued under Federal or Tribal procurement acquisition regulations.
Days
means calendar days, except where the last day of any time period specified in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period will carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Design
means services related to preparing drawings, specifications, estimates, and other design submissions specified in a contract or agreement, as well as services during the bidding/negotiating, construction, and operational phases of the project.
Financial constraint or Fiscal constraint
means that a plan (metropolitan transportation plan, TTIP, or STIP) includes financial information demonstrating that projects can be implemented using committed, available, or reasonably available revenue sources, with reasonable assurance that the federally supported transportation system is adequately operated and maintained. (
See
23 U.S.C. 134 and 135.) Documentation must be developed that demonstrates that there is a balance between the expected revenue sources for the transportation investments and the estimated costs of the projects and programs described in the planning documents.
(1) For the TTIP and the STIP, financial constraint/fiscal constraint applies to each program year.
(2) Projects in air quality nonattainment and maintenance areas can be included in the first two years of the TTIP and STIP only if funds are “available” or “committed.” See 23 CFR 450.104.
Governmental subdivision of a Tribe
means a unit of a Tribe which is authorized to participate in a TTP activity on behalf of the Tribe.
Indian
means a person who is a member of a Tribe or as otherwise defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b.
Maintenance
means the preservation of the Tribal transportation facilities, including surface, shoulders, roadsides, structures, and such traffic-control devices as are necessary for safe and efficient utilization of the facility (see 23 U.S.C. 101(13)).
National Bridge and Tunnel Inventory (or NBTI)
means the database of structural and appraisal data collected to fulfill the requirements of the National Bridge and Tunnel Inspection Standards, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 144. Each State and BIA must maintain an inventory of all bridges and tunnels that are subject to the NBTI standards and provide this data to the FHWA.
National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (or NTTFI)
means at a minimum, transportation facilities that are eligible for assistance under the
Tribal transportation program that an Indian Tribe has requested, including facilities that meet at least one of the following criteria:
(1) Were included in the Bureau of Indian Affairs system inventory prior to October 1, 2004.
(2) Are owned by an Indian Tribal government (“owned” means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (see 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).
(3) Are owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (“owned” means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (See 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).
(4) Were constructed or reconstructed with funds from the Highway Trust Fund under the Indian reservation roads program since 1983.
(5) Are public roads or bridges within the exterior boundary of Indian reservations, Alaska Native villages, and other recognized Indian communities (including communities in former Indian reservations in the State of Oklahoma) in which the majority of residents are American Indians or Alaska Natives.
(6) Are public roads within or providing access to either:
(i) An Indian reservation or Tribal trust land or restricted Tribal land that is not subject to fee title alienation without the approval of the Federal Government; or
(ii) Indian or Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities whose residents include Indians and Alaska Natives whom the Secretary has determined are eligible for services generally available to Indians under Federal laws applicable to Indians.
(7) Are primary access routes requested by Tribal governments for inclusion in the NTTFI, including roads between villages, roads to landfills, roads to drinking water sources, roads to natural resources identified for economic development, and roads that provide access to intermodal terminals, such as airports, harbors, or boat landings.

# Note:
The Secretaries are not precluded from including additional eligible transportation facilities into the NTTFI if such additional facilities are included in a uniform and consistent manner.
Population adjustment factor
means a special portion of the former Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) Program distribution formula that was calculated annually and provided for broader participation in the IRR Program.
Preventive maintenance
means the planned strategy of cost effective treatments to an existing roadway system and its appurtenances that preserve the system, impede future deterioration, and maintain or improve the functional condition of the system without increasing structural capacity. Eligible activities should address the aging, oxidation, surface deterioration, and normal wear and tear of the facility caused by day-to-day performance and environmental conditions. In addition, the treatments should extend the service life of the roadway asset or facility to at least achieve the design life of the facility.
Primary access route
means a route that is the shortest practicable route connecting two points.
Program
means any program, function, service, activity, or portion thereof.
Program agreement
means an agreement between the Tribe and Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, or their respective designees, that transfer all but the inherently Federal program functions, services and activities of the Tribal Transportation Program to the Tribe. The provisions of 23 U.S.C. 202 (b)(7)(E) apply only to those program agreements entered into by the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration.
Project planning
means project-related activities that precede the design phase of a transportation project. Examples of these activities are: Collecting data on traffic, accidents, or functional, safety or structural deficiencies; corridor studies; conceptual studies, environmental studies; geotechnical studies; archaeological studies; project scoping; public hearings; location analysis; preparing applications for permits and clearances; and meetings with facility owners and transportation officials.
Proposed road or facility
means any road or facility, including a primary
access route, that will serve public transportation needs, meets the eligibility requirements of the TTP, and does not currently exist.
Public authority
as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20) means a Federal, State, county, town, or township, Indian Tribe, municipal, or other local government or instrumentality with authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain toll or toll-free facilities.
Public road
means any road or street under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Real property
means any interest in land together with the improvements, structures, fixtures and appurtenances.
Regionally significant project
means a project (other than projects that may be grouped in the STIP/TTIP under 23 CFR 450) that:
(1) Is on a facility which serves regional transportation needs (such as access to and from the area outside of the region, major activity centers in the region, major planned developments such as new retail malls, sports complexes, etc., or transportation terminals as well as most terminals themselves); and
(2) Would normally be included in the modeling of a metropolitan area's transportation network, including, as a minimum, all principal arterial highways and all fixed guideway transit facilities that offer a significant alternative to regional highway travel.
Rehabilitation
means the work required to restore the structural integrity of transportation facilities as well as work necessary to correct safety defects.
Relative need distribution factor
means a mathematical formula used for distributing construction funds under the former IRR Program.
Relocation
means the adjustment of transportation facilities and utilities required by a highway project. It includes removing and reinstalling the facility, including necessary temporary facilities; acquiring necessary right-of-way on the new location; moving, rearranging or changing the type of existing facilities; and taking any necessary safety and protective measures. It also means constructing a replacement facility that is both functionally equivalent to the existing facility and necessary for continuous operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence of highway construction.
Relocation services
means payment and assistance authorized by the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisitions Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.,
as amended.
Rest area
means an area or site established and maintained within or adjacent to the highway right-of-way or under public supervision or control for the convenience of the traveling public.
Seasonal transportation route
means a non-recreational transportation route in the NTTFI such as snowmobile trails, ice roads, and overland winter roads that provide access to Indian communities or villages and may not be open for year-round use.
Secretaries
means the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Transportation or designees authorized to act on their behalf.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Secretary of Transportation
means the Secretary of Transportation or a designee authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary of Transportation.
State Transportation Department
as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101 (a)(28) means that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction.
Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or STIP
means a financially constrained, multi-year list of projects developed under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135, and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5305. The Secretary of Transportation reviews and approves the STIP for each State.
Strip map
means a graphic representation of a section of road or other transportation facility being added to or modified in the NTTFI. Each strip map clearly: identifies the facility's location with respect to State, county, Tribal, and congressional boundaries; defines the overall dimensions of the facility (including latitude and longitude); includes a north arrow, scale, designation of road sections, traffic counter locations, and other nearby transportation facilities; and includes
a table that provides the facility's data information needed for the NTTFI.
Transit
means services, equipment, and functions associated with the public movement of people served within a community or network of communities provided by a Tribe or other public authority using Federal funds.
Transportation planning
means developing land use, economic development, traffic demand, public safety, health and social strategies to meet transportation current and future needs.
Tribal road system
means the Tribally owned roads under the NTTFI. For the purposes of fund distribution as defined in 23 U.S.C. 202(b), the Tribal road system includes only those existing and proposed facilities that are approved and included in the NTTFI as of fiscal year 2012.
Tribal transit program
means the planning, administration, acquisition, and operation and maintenance of a system associated with the public movement of people served within a community or network of communities on or near Tribal lands.
Tribal Transportation Program
(
or TTP)
means a program established in Section 1119 of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21), Pub. L. 112-141 (July 6, 2012), and codified in 23 U.S.C. 201 and 202 to address transportation needs of Tribes. This program was continued under Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), Pub. L. 114-94 (Dec. 4, 2015).
Tribal transportation facility
means a public highway, road, bridge, trail, transit system, or other approved facility that is located on or provides access to Tribal land and appears on the NTTFI described in 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(1).
Tribe or Indian Tribe
means any Tribe, nation, band, pueblo, rancheria, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, that is federally recognized by the U.S. government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
TTIP
means Tribal Transportation Improvement Program. It is a multi-year list of proposed transportation projects developed by a Tribe from the Tribal priority list or the long-range transportation plan.
TTP Eligible Transportation Facility
means any of the following:
(1) Road systems and related road appurtenances such as signs, traffic signals, pavement striping, trail markers, guardrails, etc;
(2) Highway bridges and drainage structures;
(3) Boardwalks and Board roads;
(4) Adjacent parking areas;
(5) Maintenance yards;
(6) Operations and maintenance of transit programs and facilities;
(7) System public pedestrian walkways, paths, bike and other trails;
(8) Motorized vehicle trails;
(9) Public access roads to heliports and airports;
(10) Seasonal transportation routes;
(11) BIA and Tribal post-secondary school roads and parking lots built with TTP funds;
(12) Public ferry boats and boat ramps; and
(13) Additional facilities as approved by BIA and FHWA.
TTP formula funds
means the pool of funds made available to Tribes under 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(3).
TTP funds
means the funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. 201 and 202.
TTP planning funds
means funds referenced in 23 U.S.C. 202(c)(1).
TTP Program Management and Oversight (PM
O) funds
means those funds authorized by 23 U.S.C 202(a)(6) to pay the cost of carrying out inherently Federal program management and oversight, and project-related administrative expenses activities.
TTP System
means all of the facilities eligible for inclusion in the NTTFI.
TTPTIP
means Tribal Transportation Program Transportation Improvement Program. It is a financially constrained prioritized list of transportation projects and activities eligible for TTP funding covering a period of four years that is developed by BIA and FHWA based on each Tribe's submission of their TTIP or Tribal priority list. It is required for projects and activities to be eligible for funding under title 23 U.S.C. and title 49 U.S.C. chapter 53. The Secretary of Transportation reviews and approves the TTPTIP and
distributes copies to each State for inclusion in their respective STIPs without further action.
§ 170.6
Acronyms.
AASHTO—American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ADR—Alternate dispute resolution
ANCSA—Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
BIA—Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
BIADOT—Bureau of Indian Affairs, Indian Services—Division of Transportation—Central Office.
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations.
DOI—Department of the Interior.
DOT—Department of Transportation.
FHWA—Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation.
FTA—Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation.
ISDEAA—Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, Public Law 93-638, as amended.
LRTP—Long-range transportation plan.
MUTCD—Manual of Uniform Traffic Safety Devices
NBTI—National Bridge and Tunnel Inventory.
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act
NTTFI—National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory.
PM
O—Program management and oversight.
PS
E—Plans, specifications and estimates
STIP—Statewide Transportation Improvement Program.
TTAC—Tribal Technical Assistance Center
TTIP—Tribal Transportation Improvement Program.
TTP—Tribal Transportation Program.
TTP-S—TTP—Safety
TTPTIP—Tribal Transportation Program Transportation Improvement Program.
U.S.C.—United States Code
§ 170.7
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C.
et seq.
and assigned control number 1076-0161. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. Comments and suggestions on the burden estimate or any other aspect of the information collection should be sent to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20240.

# Subpart B—Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility

# Consultation, Collaboration, Coordination
§ 170.100
What do the terms “consultation,” “collaboration,” and “coordination” mean?
(a)
Consultation
means government-to-government communication, carried out in accordance with applicable Executive Orders, in a timely manner by all parties about a proposed or contemplated decision. The Departments' Consultation Policies and Plans can be found at
http://www.indianaffairs.gov/WhoWeAre/AS-IA/Consultation/Templates/index.htm
(DOI) or
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/tribal/news/consultation.htm
(DOT)
(b)
Collaboration
means that all parties involved in carrying out planning and project development work together in a timely manner to achieve a common goal or objective.
(c)
Coordination
means that each party:
(1) Shares and compares in a timely manner its transportation plans, programs, projects, and schedules with the related plans, programs, projects, and schedules of the other parties; and
(2) Adjusts its plans, programs, projects, and schedules to optimize the efficient and consistent delivery of transportation projects and services.
§ 170.101
What is the TTP consultation and coordination policy?
(a) The TTP's government-to-government consultation and coordination policy is to foster and improve communication, cooperation, and coordination among Tribal, Federal, State, and local governments and other transportation
organizations when undertaking the following, similar, or related activities:
(1) Identifying data-driven safety needs for improving both vehicle and pedestrian safety;
(2) Developing State, metropolitan, regional, TTP, and TTIPs that impact Tribal lands, communities, and members;
(3) Developing short and long-range transportation plans;
(4) Developing TTP transportation projects;
(5) Developing environmental mitigation measures necessary to protect and/or enhance Tribal lands and the environment, and counteract the impacts of the projects;
(6) Developing plans or projects to carry out the Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge Program identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(d);
(7) Developing plans or projects for disaster and emergency relief response and the repair of eligible damaged TTP transportation facilities;
(8) Assisting in the development of State and Tribal agreements related to the TTP;
(9) Developing and improving transit systems serving Tribal lands and communities;
(10) Assisting in the submission of discretionary grant applications for State and Federal funding for TTP transportation facilities; and
(11) Developing plans and projects for the safety funding identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(e).
(b) Tribal, State and Federal Government agencies may enter into intergovernmental Memoranda of Agreement to streamline and facilitate consultation, collaboration, and coordination.
(c) DOI and DOT operate within a government-to-government relationship with Tribes. As a critical element of this relationship, these agencies assess the impact of Federal transportation policies, plans, projects, and programs on Tribal rights and interests to ensure that these rights and concerns are appropriately considered.
§ 170.102
What goals and principles guide program implementation?
When undertaking transportation activities affecting Tribes, the Secretaries should, to the maximum extent permitted by law:
(a) Establish regular and meaningful consultation and collaboration with affected Tribal governments, including facilitating the direct involvement of Tribal governments in short- and long-range Federal transportation planning efforts;
(b) Promote the rights of Tribal governments to govern their own internal affairs;
(c) Promote the rights of Tribal governments to receive direct transportation services from the Federal Government or to enter into agreements to directly operate any Tribally related transportation programs serving Tribal members;
(d) Ensure the continuation of the trust responsibility of the United States to Tribes and Indian individuals;
(e) Reduce the imposition of unfunded mandates upon Tribal governments;
(f) Encourage flexibility, innovation and implementation of contracting mechanisms used for delivery of the TTP to the greatest extent authorized by Congress by providing the protections afforded by the ISDEAA to Tribes carrying out eligible activities of the TTP;
(g) Reduce, streamline, and eliminate unnecessarily restrictive transportation policies, guidelines, or procedures;
(h) Ensure that Tribal rights and interests are appropriately considered during program development;
(i) Ensure that the TTP is implemented consistent with Tribal sovereignty and the government-to-government relationship; and
(j) Consult with, and solicit the participation of, Tribes in the development of the annual BIA budget proposals.
§ 170.103
Is consultation with Tribal governments required before obligating TTP funds for direct service activities?
Yes. Consultation with Tribal governments is required before obligating TTP funds for direct service activities. Before obligating TTP funds on any project for direct service activities, the Secretary must:
(a) Consult with the affected Tribe to determine Tribal preferences concerning the program, project, or activity; and
(b) Provide information under § 170.600 within 30 days of the notice of availability of funds.
§ 170.104
Are funds available for consultation, collaboration, and coordination activities?
Yes. Funds are available for consultation, collaboration, and coordination activities. To fund consultation, collaboration, and coordination of TTP activities, Tribes may use:
(a) The Tribes' TTP allocations;
(b) Tribal Priority Allocation funds;
(c) Administration for Native Americans funds;
(d) Economic Development Administration funds;
(e) United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development funds;
(f) Community Development Block Grant funds;
(g) Indian Housing Block Grant funds;
(h) Indian Health Service Tribal Management Grant funds;
(i) General funds of the Tribal government; and
(j) Any other funds available for the purpose of consultation, collaboration, and coordination activities.
§ 170.105
When must State governments consult with Tribes?
As identified in 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135, States will develop their STIP in consultation with Tribes in the area where the project is located. This includes providing for a process that coordinates transportation planning efforts carried out by the State with similar efforts carried out by Tribes. Regulations governing STIPs can be found at 23 CFR part 450.
§ 170.106
Should planning organizations and local governments consult with Tribes when planning for transportation projects?
Yes. When planning for transportation projects, planning organizations and local governments should consult with Tribes in the area where the project is located.
§ 170.107
Should Tribes and BIA consult with planning organizations and local governments in developing projects?
Yes. Tribes and BIA should consult with planning organizations and local governments in developing projects.
(a) All regionally significant TTP projects must be:
(1) Developed in cooperation with State and metropolitan planning organizations; and
(2) Included in a FHWA-approved TTPTIP for inclusion in State and metropolitan plans.
(b) BIA and Tribes are encouraged to consult with States, metropolitan and regional planning organizations, and local and municipal governments on transportation matters of common concern.
§ 170.108
How do the Secretaries prevent discrimination or adverse impacts?
The Secretaries ensure that non-discrimination and environmental justice principles are integral TTP program elements. The Secretaries consult with Tribes early in the program development process to identify potential discrimination and to recommend corrective actions to avoid disproportionately high and adverse effects on Tribes and Indian populations.
§ 170.109
How can State and local governments prevent discrimination or adverse impacts?
(a) Under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135, and 23 CFR part 450, State and local government officials shall consult and work with Tribes in the development of programs to:
(1) Identify potential discrimination; and
(2) Recommend corrective actions to avoid disproportionately high and adverse effects on Tribes and Indian populations.
(b) Examples of adverse effects include, but are not limited to:
(1) Impeding access to Tribal communities or activities;
(2) Creating excessive access to culturally or religiously sensitive areas;
(3) Negatively affecting natural resources, trust resources, Tribal businesses, religious, and cultural sites;
(4) Harming indigenous plants and animals; and
(5) Impairing the ability of Tribal members to engage in commercial, cultural, and religious activities.
§ 170.110
What if discrimination or adverse impacts occur?
If discrimination or adverse impacts occur, a Tribe should take the following steps in the order listed:
(a) Take reasonable steps to resolve the problem directly with the State or local government involved; and
(b) Contact BIA, FHWA, or the Federal Transit Authority (FTA), as appropriate, to report the problem and seek assistance in resolving the problem.

# Eligible Uses of TTP Funds
§ 170.111
What activities may be carried out using TTP funds?
TTP funds will be used to pay the cost of items identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(1). A more detailed list of eligible activities is available in the appendix A to this subpart. Each of the items identified in this appendix must be interpreted in a manner that permits, rather than prohibits, a proposed use of funds.
§ 170.112
What activities are not eligible for TTP funding?
TTP funds cannot be used for any of the following:
(a) Structures and erosion protection unrelated to transportation and roadways;
(b) General or Tribal planning not involving transportation;
(c) Landscaping and irrigation systems not involving transportation programs and projects;
(d) Work or activities that are not listed on an FHWA-approved TTPTIP;
(e) Condemnation of land for recreational trails;
(f) Salaries and/or other incidental costs of any Federal employee or contractor not performing Federal TTP stewardship and oversight, work identified in the appendix to subpart E, or project-related activities identified on an approved TTIP; or
(g) Direct and/or incidental costs associated with the Federal Government's acquisition of goods, services, or construction unrelated to the program.
§ 170.113
How can a Tribe determine whether a new use of funds is allowable?
(a) A Tribe that proposes new uses of TTP funds must ask BIA or FHWA in writing whether the proposed use is eligible under Federal law.
(1) In cases involving eligibility questions that refer to 25 U.S.C., BIA will determine whether the new proposed use of TTP funds is allowable and provide a written response to the requesting Tribe within 45 days of receiving the written inquiry. Tribes may appeal a denial of a proposed use by BIA under 25 CFR part 2. The address is: Department of the Interior, BIA, Division of Transportation, 1849 C Street NW., MS 4513 MIB, Washington, DC 20240.
(2) In cases involving eligibility questions that refer to the TTP or 23 U.S.C., BIA will refer an inquiry to FHWA for decision. FHWA must provide a written response to the requesting Tribe within 45 days of receiving the written inquiry from the Tribe. Tribes may appeal denials of a proposed use by the FHWA to: FHWA, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(b) To the extent practical, the deciding agency must consult with the TTP Coordinating Committee before denying a request.
(c) BIA and FHWA will:
(1) Send copies of all eligibility determinations to the TTP Coordinating Committee and BIA Regional offices;
(2) Coordinate all responses and if the requested agency fails to issue a decision to the requesting Tribe within the required time, the proposed use will be deemed to be allowable for that specific project; and
(3) Promptly make any final determination available on agency Web sites.

# Use of TTP and Cultural Site or Area Entry Roads
§ 170.114
What restrictions apply to the use of a Tribal transportation facility?
(a) All Tribal transportation facilities listed in the approved NTTFI must be open and available for public use as
required by 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(31). However, the public authority having jurisdiction over these roads or the Secretary, in consultation with a Tribe and applicable private landowners, may restrict road use or close roads temporarily when:
(1) Required for public health and safety or as provided in § 170.116.
(2) Conducting engineering and traffic analysis to determine maximum speed limits, maximum vehicular size, and weight limits, and identify needed traffic control devices; and
(3) Erecting, maintaining, and enforcing compliance with signs and pavement markings.
(b) Consultation is not required whenever the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section involve immediate safety or life-threatening situations.
(c) A Tribal transportation facility owned by a Tribe or BIA may be permanently closed only when the Tribal government and the Secretary agree. Once this agreement is reached, BIA must remove the facility from the NTTFI and it will be ineligible for expenditure of any TTP funds.
§ 170.115
What is a cultural site or area entry road?
(a) A cultural site or area entry road is a public road that provides access to sites for cultural purposes as defined by Tribal traditions, which may include, for example:
(1) Sacred and medicinal sites;
(2) Gathering medicines or materials such as grasses for basket weaving; and
(3) Other traditional activities, including, but not limited to, subsistence hunting, fishing and gathering.
(b) A Tribal government may unilaterally designate a Tribal road as a cultural site or area entry road. A cultural site or area entry road designation is an entirely voluntary and internal decision made by the Tribe to help it and other public authorities manage, protect, and preserve access to locations that have cultural significance.
(c) In order for a Tribal government to designate a non-tribal road as a cultural site or area entry road, it must enter into an agreement with the public authority having jurisdiction over the road.
(d) Cultural site or area entry roads may be included in the NTTFI if they meet the definition of a TTP facility.
§ 170.116
Can a Tribe close a cultural site or area entry road?
(a) A Tribe with jurisdiction over a cultural site or area entry road can close it. The Tribe can carry this out:
(1) During periods when the Tribe or Tribal members are involved in cultural activities; and
(2) In order to protect the health and safety of the Tribal members or the general public.
(b) Cultural site or area entry roads designated through an agreement with a public authority may only be closed according to the provisions of the agreement. See § 170.115(c).

# Seasonal Transportation Routes
§ 170.117
Can TTP funds be used on seasonal transportation routes?
Yes. A Tribe may use TTP funds on seasonal transportation routes that are included in the NTTFI.
(a) Information regarding the standards for seasonal transportation routes are found in § 170.454. A Tribe can also develop or adopt standards that are equal to or exceed these standards.
(b) To help ensure the safety of the traveling public, construction of a seasonal transportation route requires a right-of-way, easement, or use permit.

# TTP Housing Site or Area Entry Roads
§ 170.118
What terms apply to TTP housing site or area entry roads?
(a)
TTP housing site or area entry road
means a public road on the TTP System that provides access to a housing cluster.
(b)
TTP housing street
means a public road on the TTP System that is located within a housing cluster.
(c)
Housing cluster
means three or more existing or proposed housing units.
§ 170.119
Are housing site or area entry roads and housing streets eligible for TTP funding?
Yes. TTP housing site or area entry roads and housing streets on public
rights-of-way are eligible for construction, reconstruction, and rehabilitation funding under the TTP. Tribes, following the transportation planning process as required in subpart D, may include housing site or area entry roads and housing street projects on their TTIP.

# Toll, Ferry, and Airport Facilities
§ 170.120
How can Tribes use Federal highway funds for toll and ferry facilities?
(a) A Tribe can use Federal-aid highway funds, including TTP funds, to study, design, construct, and operate toll highways, bridges, and tunnels, as well as ferry boats and ferry terminal facilities. The following table shows how a Tribe can initiate construction of these facilities.
To initiate construction of a . . .
A Tribe must . . .
(1) Toll highway, bridge, or tunnel
(i) Meet and follow the requirements in 23 U.S.C. 129; and (ii) If TTP funds are used, enter into an Agreement as defined in § 170.5.
(2) Ferry boat or ferry terminal
Meet and follow the requirements in 23 U.S.C. 129(c).
(b) A Tribe can use TTP funds to fund 100 percent of the conversion or construction of a toll facility.
(c) If a Tribe obtains non-TTP Federal funding for the conversion or construction of a toll facility, the Tribe may use TTP funds to satisfy any matching fund requirements.
§ 170.121
Where is information about designing and operating a toll facility available?
Information on designing and operating a toll highway, bridge or tunnel is available from the International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association. The Association publishes a variety of reports, statistics, and analyses. The Web site is located at
http://www.ibtta.org.
Information is also available from FHWA.
§ 170.122
When can a Tribe use TTP funds for airport facilities?
(a) A Tribe can use TTP funds for construction of airport and heliport access roads, if the access roads are open to the public.
(b) A Tribe cannot use TTP funds to construct, improve, or maintain airport or heliport facilities.

# Recreation, Tourism, and Trails
§ 170.123
Can a Tribe use Federal funds for its recreation, tourism, and trails program?
Yes. A Tribe, Consortium, or the BIA may use TTP funds for recreation, tourism, and trails programs if the programs are included in the TTPTIP. Additionally, the following Federal programs may be possible sources of Federal funding for recreation, tourism, and trails projects and activities:
(a) Federal Lands Access Program (23 U.S.C. 204);
(b) National Highway Performance Program (23 U.S.C. 119);
(c) Transportation Alternatives (23 U.S.C. 213);
(d) Surface Transportation Program (23 U.S.C. 133);
(e) Other funding from other Federal departments; and
(f) Other funding that Congress may authorize and appropriate.
§ 170.124
How can a Tribe obtain funds?
(a) To receive funding for programs that serve recreation, tourism, and trails goals, a Tribe should:
(1) Identify a program meeting the eligibility guidelines for the funds and have it ready for development; and
(2) Have a viable project ready for improvement or construction, including necessary permits.
(b) Tribes seeking to obtain funding from a State under the programs identified in § 170.123(b) through (f) should contact the State directly to determine eligibility, contracting opportunities, funding mechanisms, and project administration requirements. These funds would be made available as provided by § 170.627 of this part.
(c) In order to expend any Federal transportation funds, a Tribe must ensure that the eligible project/program is listed on an FHWA-approved TIP or STIP.
§ 170.125
What types of activities can a recreation, tourism, and trails program include?
(a) The following are examples of activities that Tribes and Consortiums may include in a recreation, tourism, and trails program:
(1) Transportation planning for tourism and recreation travel;
(2) Adjacent public vehicle parking areas;
(3) Development of tourist information and interpretative signs;
(4) Provision for non-motorized trail activities including pedestrians and bicycles;
(5) Provision for motorized trail activities including all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, etc.;
(6) Construction improvements that enhance and promote safe travel on trails;
(7) Safety and educational activities;
(8) Maintenance and restoration of existing recreational trails;
(9) Development and rehabilitation of trailside and trailhead facilities and trail linkage for recreational trails;
(10) Purchase and lease of recreational trail construction and maintenance equipment;
(11) Safety considerations for trail intersections;
(12) Landscaping and scenic enhancement (see 23 U.S.C. 319);
(13) Bicycle transportation and pedestrian walkways (see 23 U.S.C. 217); and
(14) Trail access roads.
(b) The items listed in paragraph (a) of this section are not the only activities that are eligible for recreation, tourism, and trails funding. The funding criteria may vary with the specific requirements of the programs.
(c) Tribes may use TTP funds for any activity that is eligible for Federal funding under any provision of title 23 of the U.S.C.
§ 170.126
Can roads be built in roadless and wild areas?
Under 25 CFR part 265, no roads can be built in an area designated as a roadless and wild area.

# TTP Safety
§ 170.127
What are the TTP Safety Funds?
(a) Funds, identified as TTP Safety (TTP-S) funds, are made available for a Tribe's highway safety activities through a TTP set-aside established in 23 U.S.C. 202(e). TTP-S funds are allocated based on identification and analysis of highway safety issues and opportunities on Tribal lands. A TTP-S call for projects will be made annually through a Notice of Funding Opportunity published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Tribes may also use their TTP-S funds made available through 23 U.S.C. 202(b) for highway safety activities as well as seek grant and program funding from appropriate State and local agencies and private grant organizations.
(c) A project that uses TTP-S funding or TTP funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 202(b) must be identified on a FHWA-approved TTPTIP before any funds are expended.
§ 170.128
What activities are eligible for TTP-S funds?
(a) TTP-S funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 202(e) may be used for projects and activities that improve safety in one or more of the following categories:
(1) Safety Plans and Planning activities; and
(2) Other eligible activities as described in 23 U.S.C. 148(a)(4)
(b) Eligible activities for each of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of this section will be included in the annual Notice of Funding Opportunity. An eligibility determination for other proposed activities must be requested from BIA or FHWA under § 170.113.
§ 170.129
How will Tribes receive TTP-S funds?
TTP-S funds made available to Tribes may be included in the Tribe's self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements.
§ 170.130
How can Tribes obtain non-TTP funds for highway safety projects?
FHWA, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, BIA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other Federal agencies may have funding available for Tribes to address safety projects and activities. Please see the respective agency/department Web sites for further information or ask BIA or FHWA for assistance. If funding from these agencies does become available, Tribes may work with BIA or FHWA to include those funds through an ISDEAA contract or agreement, or other appropriate agreement for these projects. If the funding is title 23 funding that is originally made available to a State, the Tribe will need to work with the State to develop an agreement for the funding and work through the process identified in § 170.627 of this part.

# Transit Facilities
§ 170.131
How do Tribes identify transit needs?
Tribes identify transit needs during the Tribal transportation planning process (see subpart D of this part). Transit projects using TTP funds must be included in the FHWA-approved TTPTIP.
§ 170.132
What Federal funds are available for a Tribe's transit program?
Title 23 U.S.C. authorizes use of TTP funds for transit facilities as defined in this part. There are many additional sources of Federal funds for Tribal transit programs, including the Federal programs listed in this section. Note that each program has its own terms and conditions of assistance. For further information on these programs and their use for transit, contact the FTA Regional Transit Assistance Program at
www.nationalrtap.org.
Section 170.627 of this part identifies how these funds, if provided to the Tribe from a State or county, can be made available.
(a)
Department of Transportation.
Formula Grants for Public Transportation on Indian Reservations under 49 U.S.C. 5311, Welfare-to-Work, Tribal Transportation Program, transportation and community and systems preservation, Federal transit capital improvement grants, public transportation for non-urbanized areas, capital assistance for elderly and disabilities transportation, education, and Even Start.
(b)
Department of Agriculture.
Community facilities loans; rural development loans; business and industrial loans; rural enterprise grants; commerce, public works and economic development grants; and economic adjustment assistance.
(c)
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Community development block grants, supportive housing, Tribal housing loan guarantees, resident opportunity and support services.
(d)
Department of Labor.
Indian employment and training, welfare-to-work grants.
(e)
Department of Health and Human Services.
Programs for Indian elders, community service block grants, job opportunities for low-income individuals, Head Start (capital or operating), administration for Indian programs, Medicaid, HIV Care Grants, Healthy Start, and the Indian Health Service.
§ 170.133
May a Tribe or BIA use TTP funds as matching funds?
TTP funds may be used to meet matching or cost participation requirements for any Federal or non-Federal transit grant or program.
§ 170.134
What transit facilities and activities are eligible for TTP funding?
Transit facilities and activities eligible for TTP funding include, but are not limited to:
(a) Acquiring, constructing, operating, supervising or inspecting new, used or refurbished equipment, buildings, facilities, buses, vans, water craft, and other vehicles for use in public transportation;
(b) Transit-related intelligent transportation systems;
(c) Rehabilitating, remanufacturing, and overhauling a transit vehicle;
(d) Preventive maintenance;
(e) Leasing transit vehicles, equipment, buildings, and facilities for use in mass transportation;
(f) Third-party contracts for otherwise eligible transit facilities and activities;
(g) Public transportation improvements that enhance economic and community development, such as bus shelters in shopping centers, parking lots, pedestrian improvements, and support facilities that incorporate other community services;
(h) Passenger shelters, bus stop signs, and similar passenger amenities;
(i) Introduction of new public transportation technology;
(j) Provision of fixed route, demand response services, and non-fixed route paratransit transportation services;
(k) Radio and communication equipment to support Tribal transit programs;
(l) Transit; and
(m) Any additional activities authorized by 49 U.S.C. 5311.

# TTP Coordinating Committee
§ 170.135
What is the TTP Coordinating Committee?
(a) Under this part, the Secretaries will establish a TTP Coordinating Committee that:
(1) Provides input and recommendations to BIA and FHWA in developing TTP regulations, policies and procedures; and
(2) Supplements government-to-government consultation by coordinating with and obtaining input from Tribes, BIA, and FHWA.
(b) The Committee consists of 24 Tribal regional representatives (two from each BIA Region) and two non-voting Federal representatives (FHWA and BIA).
(c) The Secretary must select the regional Tribal representatives from nominees officially submitted by the region's Tribes.
(1) To the extent possible, the Secretary must make the selection so that there is representation from a broad cross-section of large, medium, and small Tribes.
(2) Tribal nominees must be Tribal governmental officials or Tribal employees with authority to act for their Tribal government.
(d) For purposes of continuity, the Secretary will appoint the Tribal representatives to a three year term. The appointments will be carried out so that only one of a region's two representatives will be appointed in any one year. Should the Tribal appointment or employment of a committee representative terminate during his/her term, the representative must notify the Secretary of this change and his/her membership to the Committee will cease. Upon receipt of the notification, the Secretary will seek nominations from the region's Tribes to replace the representative for the remainder of the term.
(e) Should the need arise, the Secretary will replace representatives.
§ 170.136
What are the TTP Coordinating Committee's responsibilities?
(a) Committee responsibilities are to provide input and recommendations to BIA and FHWA during the development or revision of:
(1) BIA/FHWA TTP Stewardship Plan;
(2) TTP policy and procedures;
(3) TTP eligible activities determination;
(4) TTP transit policy;
(5) TTP regulations;
(6) TTP management systems policy and procedures; and
(7) National Tribal transportation needs.
(b) The Committee may establish work groups to carry out its responsibilities.
(c) The Committee also reviews and provides recommendations on TTP national concerns (including the implementation of this part) brought to its attention.
(d) Committee members are responsible for disseminating TTP Coordinating Committee information and activities to Tribal leadership and transportation officials within their respective BIA Regions.
§ 170.137
How does the TTP Coordinating Committee conduct business?
The Committee holds at least two meetings a year. In order to maximize participation by the Tribal public, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary its proposed meeting dates and locations for each fiscal year no later than October 1st. Subject to approval by the Secretary, additional Committee meetings may be called with
the consent of one-third of the Committee members, or by BIA or FHWA. The Committee conducts business at its meetings as follows:
(a) A quorum consists of representation from eight BIA Regions.
(b) The Committee will operate by consensus or majority vote, as determined by the Committee in its protocols.
(c) Any Committee member can submit an agenda item to the Chair.
(d) The Committee will work through a committee-approved annual work plan and budget.
(e) Annually, the Committee must elect from among the Committee membership a Chair, a Vice-Chair, and other officers. These officers will be responsible for preparing for and conducting Committee meetings and summarizing meeting results. These officers will also have other duties that the Committee may prescribe.
(f) The Committee must keep the Secretary and the Tribes informed through an annual accomplishment report provided within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year.
(g) The Committee's budget will be funded through the TTP management and oversight funds, not to exceed $150,000 annually.

# Tribal Technical Assistance Centers
§ 170.138
What are Tribal Technical Assistance Centers?
Tribal Technical Assistance Centers (TTAC), which are also referred to as Tribal Technical Assistance Program Centers are authorized under 23 U.S.C. 504(b)(3). The centers assist Tribal governments and other TTP participants in extending their technical capabilities by providing them greater access to transportation technology, training, and research opportunities. Complete information about the centers and the services they offer is available on at
http://ltap.org/about/ttap.php.
Pt. 170, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 170—Allowable Uses of TTP funds
TTP funds must be used to pay the cost of those items identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(1), including:
(a) TTP funds can be used for the following planning and design activities:
(1) Planning and design of Tribal Transportation Facilities.
(2) Transportation planning activities, including planning for tourism and recreational travel.
(3) Development, establishment, and implementation of Tribal transportation management systems such as safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management.
(4) Tribal transportation plans and transportation improvement programs (TIPS).
(5) Coordinated technology implementation program (CTIP) projects.
(6) Traffic engineering and studies.
(7) Identification, implementation, and evaluation of data-driven safety needs.
(8) Tribal transportation standards.
(9) Preliminary engineering studies.
(10) Interagency program/project formulation, coordination and review.
(11) Environmental studies and archeological investigations directly related to transportation programs and projects.
(12) Costs associated with obtaining permits and/or complying with Tribal, Federal, State, and local environmental, archeological and natural resources regulations and standards.
(13) Development of natural habitat and wetland conservation and mitigation plans, including plans authorized under the Water Resources Development Act of 1990, 104 Stat. 4604 (Water Resources Development Act).
(14) Architectural and landscape engineering services related to transportation programs.
(15) Engineering design related to transportation programs, including permitting activities.
(16) Inspection of bridges and structures.
(17) Tribal Transportation Assistance Centers (TTACs).
(18) Safety planning, programming, studies and activities.
(19) Tribal employment rights ordinance (TERO) fees.
(20) Purchase or lease of advanced technological devices used for transportation planning and design activities such as global positioning units, portable weigh-in-motion systems, hand-held data collection units, related hardware and software, etc.
(21) Planning, design and coordination for Innovative Readiness Training projects.
(22) Transportation planning and project development activities associated with border crossings on or affecting Tribal lands.
(23) Public meetings and public involvement activities associated with transportation projects and planning.
(24) Leasing or rental of equipment used in transportation planning or design programs.
(25) Transportation-related technology transfer activities and programs.
(26) Educational activities related to bicycle safety.
(27) Planning and design of mitigation impacts to environmental resources caused by a transportation project, including, but not limited to, wildlife, habitat, ecosystems, historic properties, and wetlands.
(28) Evaluation of community impacts such as land use, mobility, access, social, safety, psychological, displacement, economic, and aesthetic impacts.
(29) Acquisition of land and interests in land required for right-of-way, including control of access thereto from adjoining lands, the cost of appraisals, cost of surveys, cost of examination and abstract of title, the cost of certificate of title, advertising costs, and any fees incidental to such acquisition.
(30) Cost associated with relocation activities including financial assistance for displaced businesses or persons and other activities as authorized by law.
(31) On-the-job education including classroom instruction and pre-apprentice training activities related to transportation planning and design.
(32) Other eligible activities as approved by FHWA.
(33) Any additional activities identified by TTP Coordinating Committee guidance and approved by the appropriate Secretaries (see § 170.137).
(34) Indirect general and administrative costs; and
(35) Other eligible activities described in this part.
(b) TTP funds can be used for the following construction and improvement activities:
(1) Construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, resurfacing, restoration, and operational improvements for Tribal transportation facilities.
(2) Construction or improvement of Tribal transportation facilities necessary to accommodate other transportation modes.
(3) Construction of toll roads, highway bridges and tunnels, and toll and non-toll ferry boats and terminal facilities, and approaches thereto (except when on the Interstate System) to the extent permitted under 23 U.S.C. 129.
(4) Construction of projects for the elimination of hazards at railway-highway crossings, including the separation or protection of grades at crossings, the reconstruction of existing railroad grade crossing structures, and the relocation of highways to eliminate grade crossings.
(5) Installation of protective devices at railway-highway crossings.
(6) Transit facilities, whether publicly or privately owned, that serve Indian reservations and other communities or that provide access to or are located within an Indian reservation or community (see §§ 170.131 through 170.134 for additional information).
(7) Engineered pavement overlays that add to the structural value and design life or increase the skid resistance of the pavement.
(8) Tribally-owned, post-secondary vocational school transportation facilities.
(9) Road sealing.
(10) The placement of a double bituminous surface and chip seals during the construction of an approved project (as the non-final course) or that form the final surface of low volume roads.
(11) Seismic retrofit, replacement, rehabilitation, and painting of road bridges.
(12) Application of calcium magnesium acetate, sodium acetate/formate, or other environmentally acceptable, minimally corrosive anti-icing and de-icing compositions on road bridges, and approaches thereto and other elevated structures.
(13) Installation of scour countermeasures for road bridges and other elevated structures.
(14) Special pedestrian facilities built in lieu of streets or roads, where standard street or road construction is not feasible.
(15) Standard regulatory, warning, guide, and other official traffic signs, including dual language signs, which comply with the MUTCD that are part of transportation projects. TTP funds may also be used on interpretive signs (signs intended for viewing only by pedestrians, bicyclists, and occupants of vehicles parked out of the flow of traffic) that are culturally relevant (native language, symbols, etc.) that are a part of transportation projects.
(16) Traffic barriers and bridge rails.
(17) Engineered spot safety improvements.
(18) Planning and development of rest areas, recreational trails, parking areas, sanitary facilities, water facilities, and other facilities that accommodate the traveling public.
(19) Public approach roads and interchange ramps that meet the definition of a Tribal Transportation Facility.
(20) Construction of roadway lighting and traffic signals.
(21) Adjustment or relocation of utilities directly related to roadway work, not required to be paid for by local utility companies.
(22) Conduits crossing under the roadway to accommodate utilities that are part of future development plans.
(23) Restoration of borrow and gravel pits created by projects funded from the TTP.
(24) Force account and day labor work, including materials and equipment rental, being performed in accordance with approved plans and specifications.
(25) Experimental features where there is a planned monitoring and evaluation schedule.
(26) Capital and operating costs for traffic monitoring, management, and control facilities and programs.
(27) Safely accommodating the passage of vehicular and pedestrian traffic through construction zones.
(28) Construction engineering including contract/project administration, inspection, and testing.
(29) Construction of temporary and permanent erosion control, including landscaping and seeding of cuts and embankments.
(30) Landscape and roadside development features.
(31) Marine facilities and terminals as intermodal linkages.
(32) Construction of visitor information centers, kiosks, and related items.
(33) Other appropriate public road facilities such as visitor centers as determined by the Secretary of Transportation.
(34) Facilities adjacent to roadways to separate pedestrians and bicyclists from vehicular traffic for operational safety purposes, or special trails on separate rights-of-way.
(35) Construction of pedestrian walkways and bicycle transportation facilities, such as a new or improved lane, path, or shoulder for use by bicyclists and a traffic control device, shelter, or parking facility for bicycles.
(36) Facilities adjacent to roadways to separate modes of traffic for safety purposes.
(37) Acquisition of scenic easements and scenic or historic sites provided they are part of an approved project or projects.
(38) Debt service on bonds or other debt financing instruments issued to finance TTP construction and project support activities.
(39) Any project to encourage the use of carpools and vanpools, including provision of carpooling opportunities to the elderly and individuals with disabilities, systems for locating potential riders and informing them of carpool opportunities, acquiring vehicles for carpool use, designating existing highway lanes as preferential carpool highway lanes, providing related traffic control devices, and designating existing facilities for use for preferential parking for carpools.
(40) Fringe and corridor parking facilities including access roads, buildings, structures, equipment improvements, and interests in land.
(41) Adjacent public parking areas.
(42) Costs associated with obtaining permits and/or complying with Tribal, Federal, State, and local environmental, archeological, and natural resources regulations and standards on TTP projects.
(43) Seasonal transportation routes, including snowmobile trails, ice roads, overland winter roads, and trail markings. (See § 170.117.)
(44) Tribal fees such as employment taxes (TERO), assessments, licensing fees, permits, and other regulatory fees.
(45) On-the-job education including classroom instruction and pre-apprentice training activities related to TTP construction projects such as equipment operations, surveying, construction monitoring, testing, inspection and project management.
(46) Installation of advance technological devices on TTP transportation facilities such as permanent weigh-in-motion systems, informational signs, intelligent transportation system hardware, etc.
(47) Cultural and environmental resource monitoring, management, and mitigation for transportation related activities
(48) Mitigation activities required by Tribal, State, or Federal regulatory agencies and 42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.,
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
(49) Purchasing, leasing or renting of construction or maintenance equipment. All equipment purchase request submittals must be accompanied by written cost analysis and approved by FHWA or BIA. When purchasing construction or maintenance equipment, a Tribe must:
(i) Construction—Develop a lease/purchase cost analysis that identifies the overall benefit of purchasing the piece of equipment versus leasing. This analysis must be submitted to BIA or FHWA for approval per § 170.113. If approved, the funding must be identified on a FHWA-approved TTIP in order to be expended in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(B).
(ii) Maintenance—The equipment costs are considered part of the funding identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(8) and must be identified on a FHWA-approved TTIP in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(B) in order to be expended.
(50) Coordination and construction materials for innovative readiness training projects operated by entities such as the Department of Defense (DOD), the American Red Cross, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), other cooperating Federal agencies, States and their political subdivisions, Tribal governments, or other appropriate non-governmental organizations.
(51) Emergency repairs on Tribal Transportation Facilities.
(52) Public meetings and public involvement activities.
(53) Construction of roads on dams and levees.
(54) Transportation alternative activities as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a).
(55) Modification of public sidewalks adjacent to or within Tribal transportation facilities.
(56) Highway and transit safety infrastructure improvements and hazard eliminations.
(57) Transportation control measures such as employer-based transportation management plans, including incentives, shared-ride services, employer sponsored programs to permit flexible work schedules and other activities, other than clause (xvi) listed in section 108(f)(1)(A) of the Clean Air Act, (42 U.S.C. 7408(f)(1)(A)).
(58) Environmental restoration and pollution abatement activities in order to construct a transportation project or to mitigate impacts caused by a transportation project.
(59) Trail development and related activities as identified in §§ 170.123 through 170.126.
(60) Development of scenic overlooks and information centers.
(61) Natural habitat and wetlands mitigation efforts related to TTP projects, including:
(i) Participation in natural habitat and wetland mitigation banks, including banks authorized under the Water Resources Development Act, and
(ii) Contributions to Tribal, statewide and regional efforts to conserve, restore, enhance, and create natural habitats and wetland, including efforts authorized under the Water Resources Development Act.
(62) Mitigation of damage to wildlife, habitat and ecosystems caused as a result of a transportation project.
(63) Construction of permanent fixed or moveable structures for snow or sand control.
(64) Cultural access roads (see § 170.115).
(65) Other eligible items as approved by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).
(66) Any additional activities proposed by a Tribe or the TTP Coordinating Committee and approved by the appropriate Secretaries (see §§ 170.113 and 170.136).
(67) Other eligible activities identified in this part (c) TTP funds can be used for maintenance activities as defined in subpart G of this regulation.
(d) Each of the items identified in this appendix must be interpreted in a manner that permits, rather than prohibits, a proposed use of funds.
Pt. 170, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 170—Sources of Tribal Transportation Training and Education Opportunities
The following is a list of some of the many governmental sources for Tribal transportation training and education opportunities. There may be other non-governmental, Tribal, or private sources not listed here.
(1) National Highway Institute training courses and fellowships
(2) State and local technical assistance center workshops
(3) Tribal technical assistance centers (TTAC) workshops
(4) FHWA and FTA Research Fellowships
(5) Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship (23 U.S.C. 504)
(6) Intergovernmental personnel agreement assignments
(7) BIA transportation cooperative education program
(8) BIA force account operations
(9) Federal Transit Administration workshops
(10) State Departments of Transportation
(11) Federal-aid highway construction and technology training including skill improvement programs under 23 U.S.C. 140(b) and (c)
(12) Other funding sources identified in § 170.150 (Transit)
(13) Department of Labor work force development
(14) Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act, Public Law 102-477
(15) Garrett Morgan Scholarship (FHWA)
(16) NTRC—National Transit Resource Center
(17) CTER—Council for Tribal Employment Rights
(18) BIA Indian Highway Safety Program
(19) FHWA/STIPDG (Summer Transportation Internship Program for Diverse Groups) and NSTISS (National Summer Transportation Institute for Secondary Students) Student Internship Programs
(20) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
(21) Department of Commerce (DOC)
(22) Department of Housing and Urban Development Community Planning and Development
(23) Training program for bridge and tunnel inspectors
(24) Transportation Research Board (TRB)

# Subpart C—Tribal Transportation Program Funding
§ 170.200
How do BIA and FHWA determine the TTP funding amount?
23 U.S.C. 202(b)(3)(A) provides the basis for the funding formula and its transition into use. The annual TTP funding amount available for distribution is determined as follows:
(a) The following set-asides are applied to the Tribal transportation program before the determination of final Tribal shares:
(1) Tribal transportation planning (23 U.S.C. 202(c));
(2) Tribal transportation facility bridges (23 U.S.C. 202(d));
(3) Tribal safety (23 U.S.C 202(e));
(4) Administrative expenses (23 U.S.C 202(a)(6)); and
(5) Tribal supplemental program (23 U.S.C. 202(b)(3)(C)).
(b) After deducting the set asides identified in paragraph (a) of this section, on October 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretaries will distribute the remainder authorized to be appropriated
for the TTP among Indian Tribes as follows:
(1) For fiscal year 2016 and thereafter:
(i) For each Indian Tribe, 20 percent of the total relative need distribution factor and population adjustment factor as determined by the Tribal Transportation Allocation Methodology (see 25 CFR 170 dated July 19, 2004)) for the fiscal year 2011 funding amount made available to that Indian Tribe; and
(ii) The remainder using Tribal shares as described in § 170.201 and Tribal supplemental funding as described in § 170.202.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 170.201
What is the statutory distribution formula for Tribal shares?
(a) Tribal shares are determined by using the NTTFI as calculated for fiscal year 2012, and the most recent data on American Indian and Alaska Native population within each Indian Tribe's American Indian/Alaska Native Reservation or Statistical Area, as computed under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
), in the following manner:
(1) 27 percent in the ratio that the total eligible road mileage in each Tribe bears to the total eligible road mileage of all American Indians and Alaskan Natives. For the purposes of this calculation, eligible road mileage will be computed using only facilities included in the inventory described below:
(i) Were included in the BIA System Inventory prior to October 1, 2004;
(ii) Are owned by an Indian Tribal government;
(iii) Are owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(2) 39 percent in the ratio that the total population in each Tribe bears to the total population of all American Indians and Alaskan Natives; and
(3) 34 percent will be initially divided equally among each BIA Region.
(b) The share of funds will be distributed to each Indian Tribe within the BIA Region in the ratio that the average total relative need distribution factors and population adjustment factors from fiscal years 2005 through 2011 for a Tribe bears to the average total of relative need distribution factors and population adjustment factors for fiscal years 2005 through 2011 in that region.
§ 170.202
How do BIA and FHWA determine and distribute the Tribal supplemental program funds?
(a) The total amount of funding made available for the Tribal supplemental program is determined as follows:
(1) If the amount made available for the TTP is less than or equal to $275,000,000, the Tribal supplemental funding amount will equal 30 percent of such amount.
(2) If the amount made available for the TTP exceeds $275,000,000, the Tribal supplemental funding will equal:
(i) $82,500,000; plus
(ii) 12.5 percent of the amount made available for the Tribal transportation program in excess of $275,000,000.
(b) The Tribal supplemental program funds will be distributed as follows:
(1) Initially, the Tribal supplemental program funding determined in paragraph (a) of this section will be designated among the BIA Regions in proportion to the regional total of Tribal shares based on the cumulative Tribal shares of all Indian Tribes within the region under § 170.201.
(2) After paragraph (b)(1) of this section is completed, the Tribal supplemental program funding designated for each region will be distributed among the Tribes within the region as follows:
(i) The Secretaries will determine which Tribes would be entitled under § 170.200 to receive in a fiscal year less funding than they would receive in fiscal year 2011 pursuant to the relative need distribution factor and population adjustment factor, as described in 25 CFR part 170, subpart C (in effect as of July 5, 2012); and
(ii) The combined amount that such Indian Tribes would be entitled to receive in fiscal year 2011 pursuant to such relative need distribution factor and population adjustment factor in excess of the amount that they would be entitled to receive in the fiscal year under § 170.200.
(c) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretaries will distribute a combined amount to each Tribe that meets the criteria described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section a share of funding in proportion to the share of
the combined amount determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section attributable to such Indian Tribe.
(d) A Tribe may not receive under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and based on its Tribal share under § 170.200 a combined amount that exceeds the amount that such Indian Tribe would be entitled to receive in fiscal year 2011 pursuant to the relative need distribution factor and population adjustment factor, as described in 25 CFR part 170, subpart C.
(e) If the amount made available for a region under paragraph (b)(1) of this section exceeds the amount distributed among Indian Tribes within that region under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, The Secretaries will distribute the remainder of such region's funding under paragraph (b)(1) of this section among all Tribes in that region in proportion to the combined amount that each such Tribe received under § 170.200 and paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
§ 170.203
How are Tribal transportation planning funds provided to Tribes?
Tribal transportation planning funds described in § 170.200(a)(1) are calculated pro rata to each Tribe's final percentage as determined under §§ 170.200 through 170.202. Upon request of a Tribal government and approval by the BIA Regional Office or FHWA, these funds are made available to the Tribes under applicable BIA and FHWA contracting procedures.
§ 170.204
What restrictions apply to TTP funds provided to Tribes?
All TTP funds provided to Tribes can be expended only on eligible projects and activities identified in § 170.111 and included in an FHWA-approved TIP per 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(B).
§ 170.205
What is the timeframe for distributing TTP funds?
Not later than 30 days after the date on which funds are made available to the Secretary under this paragraph, the funds shall be distributed to, and made available for immediate use by, eligible Indian Tribes, in accordance with the formula for distribution of funds under the TTP. (See 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(A).)

# Formula Data Appeals
§ 170.226
How can a Tribe appeal its share calculation?
(a) In calculating Tribal shares, BIA and FHWA use population data (which may be appealed) and specific prior-year data (which may not be appealed). Share calculations are based upon the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(3)(B).
(b) Any appeal of a Tribe's population figure must be directed to Department of Housing and Urban Development, Indian Housing Office of Native American Programs. The population data used is the most recent data on American Indian and Alaska Native population within each Indian Tribe's American Indian/Alaska Native Reservation or Statistical Area. This data is computed under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
).
(c) Appeal processes regarding inventory submissions are found at § 170.444(c), design standards at § 170.457, and new uses of funds at § 170.113.

# Flexible Financing
§ 170.227
Can Tribes use flexible financing for TTP projects?
Yes. Tribes may use flexible financing in the same manner as States to finance TTP transportation projects, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
(a) Tribes may issue bonds or enter into other debt-financing instruments under 23 U.S.C. 122 with the expectation of payment of TTP funds to satisfy the instruments.
(b) Under 23 U.S.C. 603, the Secretary of Transportation may enter into an agreement for secured loans or lines of credit for TTP projects meeting the requirements contained in 23 U.S.C. 602. The secured loans or lines of credit must be paid from tolls, user fees, payments owing to the obligor under a public-private partnership or other dedicated revenue sources.
(c) Tribes may use TTP funds as collateral for loans or bonds to finance TTP projects. Upon the request of a
Tribe, a BIA region or FHWA will provide necessary documentation to banks and other financial institutions.
§ 170.228
Can a Tribe use TTP funds to leverage other funds or to pay back loans?
(a) A Tribe can use TTP funds to leverage other funds.
(b) A Tribe can use TTP funds to pay back loans or other finance instruments (including those provided through an agreement with another Tribe) that were used for a project that:
(1) The Tribe paid for in advance of the current year using non-TTP funds;
(2) Was included in FHWA-approved TTPTIP; and
(3) Was included in the NTTFI at the time of construction.
§ 170.229
Can a Tribe apply for loans or credit from a State infrastructure bank?
Yes. A Tribe can apply for loans or credit from a State infrastructure bank. Upon the request of a Tribe, BIA region or FHWA will provide necessary documentation to a State infrastructure bank to facilitate obtaining loans and other forms of credit for a TTP project.
§ 170.230
How long must a project financed through flexible financing remain on a TTPTIP?
Tribes must identify each TTP project financed through flexible financing along with the repayment amount on their annual TTPTIP until the flexible financing instrument has been satisfied.

# TTP Data Reporting
§ 170.240
What TTP project and activity data must be submitted annually to the Secretaries?
(a) In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 201(c)(6)(C), no later than 90 days after the last day of each fiscal year, any entity carrying out a project under the TTP under 23 U.S.C. 202 shall submit to the Secretaries, based on obligations and expenditures under the TTP during the preceding fiscal year, the following data:
(1) The names of projects and activities carried out by the entity under the TTP during the preceding fiscal year.
(2) A description of the projects and activities identified under paragraph (1) of this section;
(3) The current status of the projects and activities identified under paragraph (1) of this section; and
(4) An estimate of the number of jobs created and the number of jobs retained by the projects and activities identified under paragraph (1) of this section.
(b) FHWA and BIA shall provide an electronic portal to assist Tribes in submitting the data needed to fulfill the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 201(c)(6)(C).

# Subpart D—Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities

# Transportation Planning
§ 170.400
What is the purpose of transportation planning?
The purpose of transportation planning is to address current and future transportation, land use, economic development, traffic demand, public safety, health, and social needs.
§ 170.401
What are BIA's and FHWA's roles in transportation planning?
Except as provided in § 170.402, the functions and activities that BIA and/or FHWA must perform for the TTP transportation planning are:
(a) Reviewing, and approving the TTPTIP as well as providing technical assistance to the Tribes during the development of their TTIP or Priority List:
(b) Oversight of the NTTFI;
(c) Performing quality assurance and validation of NTTFI data updates as needed;
(d) Coordinating with States and their political subdivisions and appropriate planning authorities on regionally significant TTP projects;
(e) Providing technical assistance to Tribal governments;
(f) Developing TTP budgets;
(g) Facilitating public involvement;
(h) Participating in transportation planning and other transportation-related meetings;
(i) Performing quality assurance and validation related to performing traffic studies;
(j) Performing preliminary project planning or project identification studies;
(k) Conducting special transportation studies;
(l) Developing short- and long-range transportation plans;
(m) Mapping;
(n) Developing and maintaining management systems;
(o) Performing transportation planning for operational and maintenance facilities; and
(p) Researching rights-of-way documents for project planning.
§ 170.402
What is the Tribal role in transportation planning?
(a) All Tribes must prepare a TTIP or Tribal priority list.
(b) Tribes operating with a Program Agreement or BIA self-determination contract, TTP agreement, or self-governance agreement may assume any of the following planning functions:
(1) Coordinating with States and their political subdivisions, and appropriate planning authorities on regionally significant TTP projects;
(2) Preparing NTTFI data updates and ensuring that the data is entered into the NTTFI;
(3) Facilitating public involvement;
(4) Performing traffic studies;
(5) Developing short- and long-range transportation plans;
(6) Mapping;
(7) Developing and maintaining Tribal management systems;
(8) Participating in transportation planning and other transportation related meetings;
(9) Performing transportation planning for operational and maintenance facilities;
(10) Developing TTP budgets including transportation planning cost estimates;
(11) Conducting special transportation studies, as appropriate;
(12) Researching rights-of-way documents for project planning; and
(13) Performing preliminary project planning or project identification studies.
§ 170.403
What TTP funds can be used for transportation planning?
Funds as defined in 23 U.S.C. 202(c) are allocated to an Indian Tribal government to carry out transportation planning. Tribes may also identify transportation planning as a priority use for their TTP Tribal share formula funds. In both cases, the fund source and use must be clearly identified on a FHWA-approved TTPTIP.
§ 170.404
Can Tribes use transportation planning funds for other activities?
Yes. After completion of a Tribe's annual planning activities, unexpended planning funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 202(c) may be used on eligible projects or activities provided that they are identified on a FHWA-approved TTPTIP.
§ 170.405
How must Tribes use planning funds?
TTP funds as defined in 23 U.S.C. 202(c) are available to a Tribal government to support Tribal transportation planning and associated activities, including:
(a) Attending transportation planning meetings;
(b) Pursuing other sources of funds; and
(c) Developing the Tribal priority list, TTIP, LRTP, or any of the transportation planning functions and activities listed in § 170.402.
§§ 170.406-170.408
[Reserved]
§ 170.409
What is the purpose of long-range transportation planning?
(a) The purpose of long-range transportation planning is to clearly demonstrate a Tribe's transportation needs and to develop strategies to meet these needs. These strategies should address future land use, economic development, traffic demand, public safety, and health and social needs. The planning process should result in a LRTP.
(b) The time horizon for a LRTP should be 20 years to match State transportation planning horizons.
§ 170.410
How does a long-range transportation plan relate to the NTTFI?
A LRTP is developed using a uniform process that identifies the transportation needs and priorities of a Tribe. The NTTFI (see § 170.442) is derived from transportation facilities identified through an LRTP. It is also a means for identifying projects and activities for the TTP.
§ 170.411
What should a long-range transportation plan include?
A LRTP should include:
(a) An evaluation of a full range of transportation modes and connections between modes such as highway, rail, air, and water, to meet transportation needs;
(b) Trip generation studies, including determination of traffic generators due to land use;
(c) Social and economic development planning to identify transportation improvements or needs to accommodate existing and proposed land use in a safe and economical fashion;
(d) Measures that address health and safety concerns relating to transportation improvements;
(e) A review of the existing and proposed transportation system to identify the relationships between transportation and the environment;
(f) Cultural preservation planning to identify important issues and develop a transportation plan that is sensitive to Tribal cultural preservation;
(g) Scenic byway and tourism plans;
(h) Measures that address energy conservation considerations;
(i) A prioritized list of short- and long-term transportation needs; and
(j) An analysis of funding alternatives to implement plan recommendations.
§ 170.412
How is the Tribal TTP long-range transportation plan developed and approved?
(a) The Tribal TTP long-range transportation plan is developed by either:
(1) A Tribe working through a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement; and other appropriate agreement; or
(2) BIA or FHWA upon request of, and in consultation with, a Tribe. The Tribe and BIA or FHWA need to agree on the methodology and elements included in development of the TTP long-range transportation plan along with time frames before work begins. The development of a long-range transportation plan on behalf of a Tribe will be funded from the Tribe's share of the TTP funds.
(b) During the development of the TTP long-range transportation plan, the Tribe and BIA or FHWA will jointly conduct a midpoint review.
(c) The public reviews a draft TTP long-range transportation plan as required by § 170.413. The plan is further refined to address any issues identified during the public review process. The Tribe then approves the TTP long-range transportation plan.
§ 170.413
What is the public's role in developing the long-range transportation plan?
BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe must solicit public involvement. If there are no Tribal policies regarding public involvement, a Tribe must use the procedures in this section. Public involvement begins at the same time long-range transportation planning begins and covers the range of users, from stakeholders and private citizens to major public and private entities. Public involvement must include either meetings or notices, or both.
(a) For public meetings, BIA, FHWA or the Tribe must:
(1) Advertise each public meeting in local and Tribal public newspapers at least 15 days before the meeting date. In the absence of local and Tribal public newspapers, BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe may post notices under locally acceptable practices;
(2) Provide at the meeting copies of the draft LRTP;
(3) Provide information on funding and the planning process; and
(4) Provide the public the opportunity to comment, either orally or in writing.
(b) For public notices, BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe must:
(1) Publish a notice in the local and Tribal public newspapers when the draft LRTP is complete. In the absence of local and Tribal public newspapers,
BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe may post notices under locally acceptable practices; and
(2) State in the notice that the LRTP is available for review, where a copy can be obtained, whom to contact for questions, where comments may be submitted, and the deadline for submitting comments (normally 30 days).
§ 170.414
How is the Tribal long-range transportation plan used and updated?
The Tribal government uses its TTP long-range transportation plan to develop transportation projects as documented in a Tribal priority list or TTIP and to identify and justify the Tribe's updates to the NTTFI. To be consistent with State, Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Regional Planning Organization (RPO) planning practices, the TTP long-range transportation plan must be reviewed annually and updated at least every five years.
§ 170.415
What are pre-project planning and project identification studies?
(a) Pre-project planning and project identification studies are part of overall transportation planning and include the activities conducted before final project approval on the TTPTIP. These processes provide the information necessary to financially constrain and program a project on the four-year TTPTIP but are not the final determination that projects will be designed and built. These activities include:
(1) Preliminary project cost estimates;
(2) Certification of public involvement;
(3) Consultation and coordination with States and/or MPO's for regionally significant projects;
(4) Preliminary needs assessments; and
(5) Preliminary environmental and archeological reviews.
(b) BIA and/or FHWA, upon request of the Tribe, will work cooperatively with Tribal, State, regional, and metropolitan transportation planning organizations concerning the leveraging of funds from non-TTP sources and identification of other funding sources to expedite the planning, design, and construction of projects on the TTPTIP.
§ 170.420
What is the Tribal priority list?
The Tribal priority list is a list of all transportation projects that the Tribe wants funded. The list:
(a) Is not financially constrained; and
(b) Is provided to BIA or FHWA by official Tribal action, unless the Tribal government submits a TTIP.

# Tribal Transportation Improvement Programs
§ 170.421
What is the Tribal Transportation Improvement Program (TTIP)?
(a) The TTIP:
(1) Is developed from and must be consistent with the Tribe's Tribal priority list or LRTP;
(2) Is financially constrained for all identified funding sources;
(3) Must identify (year by year) all TTP funded projects and activities that are expected to be carried out over the next four years as well as the projected costs and all other funding sources that are expected to be used on those projects. Although 23 U.S.C. 134(j)(1)(D) indicates a TIP must be updated once every four years, Tribes are encouraged to update the TTIP annually to best represent the plans of the Tribe;
(4) Must identify all projects and activities that are funded through other Federal, State, county, and municipal transportation funds and are carried out by the Tribe in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(9);
(5) Must include public involvement;
(6) Is reviewed and updated as necessary by the Tribal government;
(7) Can be changed only by the Tribal government; and
(8) After approval by the Tribal government, must be forwarded to BIA or FHWA by Tribal resolution or authorized governmental action certifying public involvement has occurred and requesting approval.
(b) A copy of the FHWA-approved TTIP is returned to the Tribe and BIA. Although the FHWA-approved TTIP authorizes the Tribe to expend TTP funds for the projects and/or activities shown, it does not waive or modify
other Federal, local, or financial statutory or regulatory requirements associated with the projects or activities.
§ 170.422
How does the public participate in developing the TTIP?
Public involvement is required in the development of the TTIP.
(a) The Tribe must publish a notice in local and/or Tribal newspapers when the draft TTIP is complete. In the absence of local public newspapers, the Tribe or BIA may post notices under locally acceptable practices. The notice must indicate where a copy can be obtained, a contact person for questions, where comments may be submitted, and the deadline for submitting comments. A copy of the notice will be made available to BIA or FHWA upon request.
(b) The Tribe may hold public meetings at which the public may comment orally or in writing.
(c) The Tribe, the State transportation department, or MPO may conduct public involvement activities.
§ 170.423
How are annual updates or amendments to the TTIP conducted?
(a) The TTIP annual update allows:
(1) Changes to schedules and funding amounts for identified projects and activities; and
(2) The addition of transportation projects and activities planned for the next four years.
(b) During the first quarter of a fiscal year, Tribes will be notified of the opportunity to update their TTIP. This notification will contain information on where the Tribes can access their estimated TTP funding amounts for that fiscal year, and will include a copy of their previously approved TTIP, as well as instructions for submitting the annual update.
(c) The Tribe must then review any new transportation planning information and priority lists, update their TTIP using the procedures in § 170.421, and forward the documentation to their respective BIA Regional Office or to FHWA.
(d) If forwarded to:
(1) A BIA Regional Office—The Office will review all submitted information with the Tribe and provide a written response (concurring, denying, or requesting additional information) within 45 days. If the BIA regional office concurs in the TTIP, it is then forwarded to FHWA for final approval.
(2) FHWA-FHWA will review all submitted information with the Tribe and provide a written response (approving, denying, or requesting additional information) within 45 days. Once a proposed TTIP update is approved by FHWA, it will be included in that year's overall TTPTIP.
(e) The Tribe may amend their approved TTIP at any time using the procedures in § 170.421 and paragraph (d) of this section in order to add a new project or activity within the current fiscal year that they intend to expend TTP funds on.
§ 170.424
What is the TTP Transportation Improvement Program (TTPTIP)?
(a) Each year, FHWA will compile the approved TTIPs for all of the Tribes into one document called the TTPTIP. This document will identify all expected projects and activities over a four-year period and will be organized by fiscal year, State, and Tribe.
(b) FHWA and BIA will post the approved TTPTIP on their respective Web sites. A subset of the TTPTIP that identifies only design and construction activities will annually be provided to the pertinent FHWA Division office for further transmittal to each State Transportation Office/Department for inclusion in the STIP without further action per 23 U.S.C. 201(c)(4).

# Public Hearings
§ 170.435
When is a public hearing required?
The Tribe, or BIA or FHWA after consultation with the appropriate Tribe and other involved agencies, determines whether or not a public hearing is needed for a TTPTIP, a LRTP, or a project. A public hearing must be held if a project:
(a) Is for the construction of a new route or facility;
(b) Would significantly change the layout or function of connecting or related roads or streets;
(c) Would cause a substantial adverse effect on adjacent property; or
(d) Is controversial or expected to be controversial in nature.
§ 170.436
How are public hearings for TTP planning and projects funded?
Public hearings for a TTIP or a Tribe's LRTP are funded using the Tribe's funds as described in § 170.403.
§ 170.437
If there is no hearing, how must BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe inform the public?
(a) When no public hearing for a TTP project is scheduled, the BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe must give adequate notice to the public before project activities are scheduled to begin. The notice should include:
(1) Project location;
(2) Type of improvement planned;
(3) Dates and schedule for work;
(4) Name and address where more information is available; and
(5) Provisions for requesting a hearing.
(b) If the work is not to be performed by the Tribe, BIA will send a copy of the notice to the affected Tribe.
§ 170.438
How must BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe inform the public of when a hearing is held?
(a) When BIA, FHWA, or a Tribe holds a hearing under this part, it must notify the public of the hearing by publishing a notice with information about the project, how to attend the hearing, and where copies of documents can be obtained or viewed.
(b) BIA or the Tribe must publish the notice by:
(1) Posting the notice and publishing it in a newspaper of general circulation at least 30 days before the public hearing; and,
(2) Sending a courtesy copy of the notice to each affected Tribe and BIA Regional Office.
(c) A second notice for a hearing is optional.
§ 170.439
How is a public hearing conducted?
(a)
Presiding official.
A Tribal (tribal council) or Federal (FHWA or BIA) official will be appointed to preside over the public hearing. The presiding official must encourage a free and open discussion of the issues.
(b)
Record of hearing.
The presiding official is responsible for compiling the official record of the hearing. A record of a hearing is a summary of oral testimony and all written statements submitted at the hearing. Additional written comments made or provided at the hearing, or within five working days of the hearing, will be made a part of the record.
(c)
Hearing process.
(1) The presiding official explains the purpose of the hearing and provides an agenda;
(2) The presiding official solicits public comments from the audience on the merits of TTP projects and activities; and
(3) The presiding official informs the hearing audience of the appropriate procedures for a proposed TTP project or activity that may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Project development activities;
(ii) Rights-of-way acquisition;
(iii) Environmental and archeological clearance;
(iv) Relocation of utilities and relocation services;
(v) Authorized payments under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.,
as amended;
(vi) Draft transportation plan; and
(vii) The scope of the project and its effect on traffic during and after construction.
(d)
Availability of information.
Appropriate maps, plats, project plans, and specifications will be available at the hearing for public review. Appropriate officials must be present to answer questions.
(e)
Opportunity for comment.
Comments are received as follows:
(1) Oral statements at the hearing;
(2) Written statements submitted at the hearing; and
(3) Written statements sent to the address noted in the hearing notice within five working days following the public hearing.
§ 170.440
How can the public learn the results of a public hearing?
Within 20 working days after the public hearing, the presiding official will
issue and post at the hearing site a statement that:
(a) Summarizes the results of the hearing;
(b) Explains any needed further action;
(c) Explains how the public may request a copy; and
(d) Outlines appeal procedures.
§ 170.441
Can a decision resulting from a hearing be appealed?
Yes. A decision resulting from the public hearing may be appealed under 25 CFR part 2.

# National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory
§ 170.442
What is the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory?
(a) The National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (NTTFI), is defined under § 170.5 of this part.
(b) BIA, FHWA, or Tribes can also use the NTTFI to assist in transportation and project planning, justify expenditures, identify transportation needs, maintain existing TTP facilities, and develop management systems.
(c) The Secretaries may include additional transportation facilities in the NTTFI if the additional facilities are included in a uniform and consistent manner nationally.
(d) As required by 23 U.S.C. 144, all bridges in the NTTFI will be inspected and recorded in the national bridge inventory administered by the Secretary of Transportation.
(e) In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(1)(A-B) and the principles of program stewardship and oversight, the Secretaries have the authority to maintain the NTTFI and shall ensure the eligibility of the facilities and the accuracy of the data included in the NTTFI.
§ 170.443
What is required to successfully include a proposed transportation facility in the NTTFI?
(a) A proposed transportation facility is any transportation facility, including a highway bridge, that will serve public transportation needs, meets the eligibility requirements of the TTP, and does not currently exist. It must meet the eligibility requirements of the TTP and be open to the public when constructed. In order to have a proposed facility placed on the NTTFI, a Tribe must submit all of the following to the BIADOT/FHWA Quality Assurance Team for consideration:
(1) A Tribal resolution or other official action identifying support for the facility and its placement on the NTTFI.
(2) A copy of the Tribe's LRTP containing:
(i) A description of the current land use and identification of land ownership within the proposed road's corridor (including what public easements may be required);
(ii) A description of need and outcomes for the facility including a description of the project's termini; and
(iii) The sources of funding to be used for construction.
(3) If the landowner is a public authority other than the Tribe or BIA, documentation from the public authority that the proposed road has been identified in their LRTP, STIP approved by FHWA, or other published transportation planning documents.
(4) Documentation clearly identifying that easements or rights-of-way have been acquired or a clear written statement of willingness to provide a right-of-way from each landowner along the route.
(5) Certification that a public involvement process has been carried out for the proposed road.
(6) A synopsis discussing the project's anticipated environmental impacts as well as the engineering and construction challenges.
(7) Documentation that the project can meet financial or fiscal constraint requirements including financial information demonstrating that the project can be implemented using existing or reasonably available funding sources, and that the project route can be adequately maintained after construction. (See 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135.)
(8) Documentation identifying the entity responsible for maintenance of the facility after construction is completed.
(b) For those proposed roads that were included in the NTTFI as of November 7, 2016, the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section may be submitted for approval to BIA
and FHWA at any time, but is not required in order for those proposed roads to remain in the NTTFI, unless any changes or updates to the proposed road were (or are) made after that date.
[81 FR 78463, Nov. 7, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 50313, Oct. 31, 2017; 84 FR 55500, Oct. 17, 2019; 85 FR 17499, Mar. 30, 2020 ]
§ 170.444
How is the NTTFI updated?
(a) Submitting data into the NTTFI for a new facility is carried out on an annual basis as follows:
(1) BIA Regional Offices provide each Tribe within its region with a copy of the Tribe's own NTTFI data during the first quarter of each fiscal year.
(2) Tribes review the provided data and are responsible for entering all changes/updates into the database. This work must be completed by March 15. The submissions must include, at a minimum, all required minimum attachments (see § 170.446) and authorizing resolutions or similar official authorizations.
(3) The BIA Regional Office reviews each Tribe's submission. If any errors or omissions are identified, the BIA Regional Office will return the submittals along with a request for corrections to the Tribe no later than May 15. If no errors or omissions are found, the BIA Regional Office validates the data and forwards it to BIADOT for review and approval.
(4) The Tribe must correct any errors or omissions in the data entries or return the corrected submittals back to the BIA Regional Office by June 15.
(5) Each BIA Regional Office must validate its regional data by July 15.
(6) BIADOT approves the current inventory year submissions from BIA Regional Offices by September 30 or returns the submissions to the BIA Regional Office if additional work is required.
(7) New facility data submitted outside of the above referenced dates are not guaranteed for inclusion in the official inventory identified in this subsection.
(b) Updating the data on a facility currently listed in the NTTFI is carried out as follows:
(1) At any time, a Tribe may submit a request to the BIA Region asking for the NTTFI data of an existing facility to be updated. The request must include the Tribe's updated data and background information on how and why the data was obtained. At the request of a Tribe, FHWA may assist BIA and the Tribe in updating the NTTFI data as required under this part.
(2) The BIA Region must review the submitted data and respond to the Tribe within 30 days of its receipt.
(i) If approved, the BIA Region validates the data and forwards it to BIADOT for review and approval.
(ii) If not approved, the BIA Region returns the submittals to the Tribe along with a detailed written explanation and supporting documentation of the reasons for the disapproval. The Tribe must correct the data entries and return the corrected submittals back to the BIA Region.
(3) BIADOT approves the current inventory year submittals from BIA Regional Offices or returns the submittals to the BIA Regional Office if additional work is required.
(c) A Tribe may appeal the rejection of submitted data on a new or existing facility included in the NTTFI by filing a written notice of appeal to the Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, with a copy to the BIA Regional Director.
(d) To be included in the annual NTTFI update used for administrative and reporting purposes for any given fiscal year, submittals for new facilities and updates for existing facilities must be officially accepted by BIA and FHWA by September 30th of that year.
§ 170.445
[Reserved]
§ 170.446
What minimum attachments are required for an NTTFI submission?
The minimum attachments required for a facility to be added into the NTTFI include the following.
(a) A long-range transportation plan.
(b) A Tribal resolution or official authorization that refers to all route numbers, names, locations, lengths, construction needs, and ownerships.
(c) A Strip map. See § 170.5.
(d) Average Daily Traffic (ADT) documentation.
(e) A typical or representative section photo or bridge profile photo.
(f) Incidental cost verification.
(g) Acknowledgement of Public Authority responsibility.
(h) For proposed roads, see § 170.443 for additional required attachments. Please see the TTP Coding Guide for additional information on the NTTFI minimum attachments.
§ 170.447
How are the allowable lengths of access roads in the NTTFI determined?
The allowable length of an access road in the NTTFI is determined as follows:
(a) If the road section intersects or abuts a federally recognized Tribal boundary, then the length of the access road is the distance from the boundary extending to the intersection of an equal or greater functional classification but no more than 15 miles.
(b) If the road section does not intersect or abut a federally recognized Tribal boundary, the following applies:
(1) If the road section intersects or abuts an Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) village corporation transportation service area, then the length of the access road is the distance from the ANCSA village corporation transportation service area extending to the intersection of an equal or greater functional classification but no more than 15 miles.
(2) If the road section is located outside of an ANCSA village corporation and located within a developed Alaska Native Village with a population more than 50% Alaska Native/American Indian, then the length of the access road is defined as the distance beginning five miles outside of the developed area of the Alaska Native Village extending to the intersection of an equal or greater functional classification but no more than 15 miles.
(3) If the road section intersects or abuts a Tribally owned trust or fee parcel located outside of an incorporated municipal boundary, then the length of the access road is defined as the distance beginning five miles outside of the Tribally owned trust or fee parcel boundary extending to the intersection of an equal or greater functional classification but no more than 15 miles.
(4) If the road section intersects or abuts a Tribally owned trust or fee parcel located inside of an incorporated municipal boundary, then the length of the access road is defined as the distance from the Tribally owned trust or fee parcel boundary extending to the intersection of an equal or greater functional classification but no more than 15 miles.

# Environmental and Archeological Requirements
§ 170.450
What archeological and environmental requirements must the TTP meet?
All BIA, FHWA, and Tribal work for the TTP must comply with cultural resource and environmental requirements under applicable Federal laws and regulations. A list of applicable laws and regulations is shown in appendix A to this subpart and is also available in the official Tribal Transportation Program Guide.
§ 170.451
Can TTP funds be used for archeological and environmental compliance?
Yes. For approved TTP projects, TTP funds can be used for environmental and archeological work consistent with § 170.450 and applicable Tribal laws for:
(a) Road and bridge rights-of-way;
(b) Borrow pits and aggregate pits and water sources associated with TTP activities staging areas;
(c) Limited mitigation outside of the construction limits as necessary to address the direct impacts of the construction activity as determined in the environmental analysis and after consultation with all affected Tribes and appropriate Secretaries; and
(d) Construction easements.
§ 170.452
When can TTP funds be used for archeological and environmental activities?
TTP funds can be used on a project's archeological and environmental activities only after the TTP facility is included in the Tribe's LRTP and the NTTFI, and the project identified on an FHWA-approved TTPTIP.
§ 170.453
Do the Categorical Exclusions under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the regulations at 23 CFR 771 apply to TTP activities?
Yes. Regardless of whether BIA or FHWA is responsible for the oversight of a Tribe's TTP activities, the Categorical Exclusions under NEPA at 23 CFR 771.117 governing the use of funds made available through title 23 shall apply to all qualifying TTP projects involving the construction or maintenance of roads.

# Design
§ 170.454
What design standards are used in the TTP?
(a) Depending on the nature of the project, Tribes must use appropriate design standards approved by FHWA. Appendix B to this subpart as well as the official Tribal Transportation Program Guide list the applicable design standards that can be used.
(b) All other design standards not listed in (a) must receive approval from FHWA.
§ 170.455
What other factors must influence project design?
The appropriate design standards must be applied to each construction project consistent with a minimum 20-year design life for highway projects and 75-year design life for highway bridges. The design of TTP projects must take into consideration:
(a) The existing and planned future use of the facility in a manner that is conducive to safety, durability, and economy of maintenance;
(b) The particular needs of each locality, and the environmental, scenic, historic, aesthetic, community, and other cultural values and mobility needs in a cost effective manner; and
(c) Access and accommodation for other modes of transportation.
§ 170.456
How can a Tribe request an exception from the design standards?
(a) A Tribe can request an exception from the required design standards from FHWA. The engineer of record (the State licensed civil engineer whose name and professional stamp appear on the PS
E or who is responsible for the overall project design) must submit written documentation with appropriate supporting data, sketches, details, and justification based on engineering analysis.
(b) FHWA can approve a project design that does not conform to the minimum criteria only after giving due consideration to all project conditions, such as:
(1) Maximum service and safety benefits for the dollar invested;
(2) Compatibility with adjacent features; and
(3) Probable time before reconstruction of the project due to changed conditions or transportation demands.
(c) FHWA has 30 days from receiving the request to approve or decline the exception.
§ 170.457
Can a Tribe appeal a denial?
Yes. Tribes may appeal the denial of a design exception to: FHWA Office of Federal Lands Highway, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., HFL-1, Washington, DC 20590. If FHWA denies a design exception, the Tribe may appeal the decision Office of the FHWA Administrator, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., HOA-1, Washington, DC 20590.

# Review and Approval of Plans, Specifications and Estimates
§ 170.460
What must a project package include?
The project package must include the following documentation, approved by the appropriate Public Authority, before the start of construction:
(a) Plans, specifications, and estimates;
(b) A Tribal resolution or other authorized document supporting the project;
(c) Certification of compliance with the requirements of 25 CFR part 169, as well as any additional public taking documentation clearances, if applicable.
(d) Required environmental, archeological, and cultural clearances; and
(e) Identification of design exceptions if used in the plans.
§ 170.461
May a Tribe approve plans, specifications, and estimates?
An Indian Tribal government may approve plans, specifications and estimates and commence road and bridge construction with funds made available from the TTP through a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement or other appropriate agreement, developed in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(6)
(b)(7), if the Indian Tribal government:
(a) Provides assurances in the contract or agreement that the construction will meet or exceed applicable health and safety standards;
(b) Obtains advance review of the plans and specifications from a State-licensed civil engineer that has certified that the plans and specifications meet or exceed the applicable health and safety standards;
(c) Provides a copy of the certification under paragraph (a) of this section to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tribal Government Affairs, Department of Transportation, or the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, DOI, as appropriate; and
(d) Provides a copy of all project documentation identified in § 170.460 to BIA or FHWA before the start of construction.
§ 170.463
What if a design deficiency is identified?
If the Secretaries identify a design deficiency that may jeopardize public health and safety if the facility is completed, they must:
(a) Immediately notify the Tribe of the design deficiency and request that the Tribe promptly resolve the deficiency under the standards in § 170.454; and
(b) For a BIA-prepared PS
E package, promptly resolve the deficiency under the standards in § 170.454 and notify the Tribe of the required design changes.

# Construction and Construction Monitoring
§ 170.470
Which construction standards must Tribes use?
(a) Tribes must either:
(1) Use the approved standards referred to in § 170.454; or
(2) Request approval for any other road and highway bridge construction standards that are consistent with or exceed the standards referred to in § 170.454.
(b) For designing and building eligible intermodal projects funded by the TTP, Tribes must use either:
(1) Nationally recognized standards for comparable projects; or
(2) Tribally adopted standards that meet or exceed nationally recognized standards for comparable projects.
§ 170.471
How are projects administered?
(a) When a Tribe carries out a TTP project, the project will be administered in accordance with a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement or other appropriate agreement and this regulation.
(b) If BIA or FHWA discovers a problem during an on-site monitoring visit, BIA or FHWA must promptly notify the Tribe and, if asked, provide technical assistance.
(c) Only the State-licensed professional engineer of record whose name and professional stamp appear on the PS
E or who is responsible for the overall project design may change a TTP project's PS
E during construction.
(1) The original approving agency must review each substantial change. The approving agency is the Federal, Tribal, State, or local entity with PS
E approval authority over the project.
(2) The approving agency must consult with the affected Tribe and the entity having maintenance responsibility.
(3) A change that exceeds the limits of available funding may be made only with the approving agency's consent.
§ 170.472
What construction records must Tribes and BIA keep?
The following table shows which TTP construction records BIA and Tribes must keep and the requirements for access.
Record keeper
Records that must be kept
Access requirements
(a) Tribe
All records required by ISDEAA and 25 CFR 900.130-131 or 25 CFR 1000.243 and 1000.249, as appropriate
BIA and FHWA are allowed access to Tribal TTP construction and approved project specifications as required under 25 CFR 900.130, 900.131, 25 CFR 1000.243 and 1000.249, or the Program Agreement as appropriate.
(b) BIA
Completed daily reports of construction activities appropriate to the type of construction it is performing
Upon reasonable advance request by a Tribe, BIA must provide reasonable access to records.
§ 170.473
When is a project complete?
A project is considered substantially complete when all work is completed and accepted (except for minor tasks yet to be completed (punch list)) and the project is open to traffic. The project is completed only after all the requirements of this section are met.
(a) At the end of a construction project, the public authority, agency, or organization responsible for the project must make a final inspection. The inspection determines whether the project has been completed in reasonable conformity with the PS
E.
(1) Appropriate officials from the Tribe, BIA, responsible public authority, and FHWA should participate in the inspection, as well as contractors and maintenance personnel.
(2) All project information must be made available during final inspection and used to develop the TTP construction project closeout report. Some examples of project information are: Daily diaries, weekly progress reports, subcontracts, subcontract expenditures, salaries, equipment expenditures, as-built drawings, etc.
(b) After the final inspection, the facility owner makes final acceptance of the project. At this point, the Tribe or BIA must complete a project closeout and final accounting of all TTP construction project expenditures under § 170.474.
(c) If applicable, all documents required by 25 CFR part 169 must be completed.
§ 170.474
Who conducts the project closeout?
The following table shows who must conduct the TTP construction project closeout and develop the report.
If the project was
completed by . . .
then . . .
and the closeout report must . . .
(a) BIA
The region engineer or designee is responsible for closing out the project and preparing the report
(1) Summarize the construction project records to ensure compliance requirements have been met;
(2) Review the bid item quantities and expenditures to ensure reasonable conformance with the PS
E and modifications;
(3) Be completed within 120 calendar days of the date of acceptance of the TTP construction project; and
(4) Be provided to the affected Tribes and the Secretaries.
(b) A Tribe
Agreements negotiated under ISDEAA, or other appropriate agreements specify who is responsible for closeout and preparing the report
(1) Meet the requirements of ISDEAA;
(2) Comply with 25 CFR 900.130(d) and 131(b)(10) and 25 CFR 1000.249, or the Program Agreement, as applicable;
(3) Be completed within 120 calendar days of the date of acceptance of the project; and
(4) Be provided to all parties specified in the agreements.

# Management Systems
§ 170.502
Are nationwide management systems required for the TTP?
(a) To the extent appropriate, the Secretaries, in consultation with Tribes, will implement safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management systems for the Federal and Tribal facilities included in the NTTFI.
(b) A Tribe may develop its own Tribal management system based on the nationwide management system requirements in 23 CFR part 973. The Tribe may use either TTP formula funds or transportation planning funds defined in 23 U.S.C. 202(c) for this purpose. The Tribal system must be consistent with Federal management systems.

# Tribal Transportation Facility Bridges
§ 170.510
What funds are available for Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge activities?
Funds are made available in 23 U.S.C. 202(d) for improving deficient bridges eligible for the TTP.
§ 170.511
What activities are eligible for Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge funds?
(a) The activities that are eligible for 23 U.S.C. 202(d) funding are:
(1) Carrying out any planning, design, engineering, preconstruction, construction, and inspection of a bridge project to replace, rehabilitate, seismically retrofit, paint, apply calcium magnesium acetate, sodium acetate/formate, or other environmentally acceptable, minimally corrosive anti-icing and deicing composition; or
(2) Implementing any countermeasure for deficient Tribal transportation facility bridges, including multiple-pipe culverts.
(b) Further information regarding the use and availability of these funds can be found at 23 CFR part 661.
§ 170.512
How will Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge funds be made available to the Tribes?
Funds made available to Tribes under 23 U.S.C. 202(d) may be included in the Tribe's self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, Program Agreements, and other appropriate agreements.
§ 170.513
When and how are bridge inspections performed?
(a) All bridges identified on the NTTFI must be inspected under 23 U.S.C. 144.
(b) Employees performing inspections as required by § 170.513(a) must:
(1) Notify affected Tribes and State and local governments that an inspection will occur;
(2) Offer Tribal and State and local governments the opportunity to accompany the inspectors; and
(3) Otherwise coordinate with Tribal and State and local governments.
(c) The person responsible for the bridge inspection team must meet the qualifications for bridge inspectors as defined in 23 U.S.C. 144.
§ 170.514
Who reviews bridge inspection reports?
The person responsible for the bridge inspection team must send a copy of the inspection report to BIADOT. BIADOT:
(a) Reviews the report for quality assurance and works with FHWA to ensure the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 144 are carried out; and
(b) Furnishes a copy of the report to the BIA Regional Office, which will forward the copy to the affected Tribe.
Pt. 170, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 170—Cultural Resource and Environmental Requirements for the TTP
All BIA, FHWA, and Tribal work for the TTP must comply with cultural resource and environmental requirements under applicable Federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:
1. 16 U.S.C. 1531, Endangered Species Act.
2. 16 U.S.C. 4601, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act (Section 6(f)).
3. 16 U.S.C. 661-667d, Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act.
4. 23 U.S.C. 138, Preservation of Parklands, commonly referred to as 4(f).
5. 25 U.S.C. 3001-3013, Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.
6. 33 U.S.C. 1251, Federal Water Pollution Control Act and Clean Water Act.
7. 42 U.S.C. 7401, Clean Air Act.
8. 42 U.S.C. 4321, National Environmental Policy Act.
9. 49 U.S.C. 303, Preservation of Parklands.
10. 7 U.S.C. 4201, Farmland Protection Policy Act.
11. 50 CFR part 402, Endangered Species Act regulations.
12. 7 CFR part 658, Farmland Protection Policy Act regulations.
13. 40 CFR part 93, Air Quality Conformity and Priority Procedures for use in Federal-aid Highway and Federally-Funded Transit Programs.
14. 23 CFR part 771, Environmental Impact and Related Procedures.
15. 23 CFR part 772, Procedures for Abatement of Highway Traffic Noises and Construction Noises.
16. 23 CFR part 777, Mitigation of Impacts To Wetlands and Natural Habitat.
17. 36 CFR part 800, Protection of Historic Properties.
18. 40 CFR parts 260-271, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulations.
19. Applicable Tribal/State laws.
20. Other applicable Federal laws and regulations.
Pt. 170, Subpt. D, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 170—Design Standards for the TTP
Depending on the nature of the project, Tribes must use the latest edition of the following design standards, as applicable. Additional standards may also apply. In addition, Tribes may develop design standards that meet or exceed the standards listed in this appendix. To the extent that any provisions of these standards are inconsistent with ISDEAA, these provisions do not apply.
1. AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets.
2. AASHTO A Guide for Transportation Landscape and Environmental Design.
3. AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.
4. AASHTO Guide for Selecting, Locating and Designing Traffic Barriers.
5. AASHTO Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges.
6. AASHTO Guidelines of Geometric Design of Very Low-Volume Local Roads (ADT less than or equal to 400).
7. FHWA Federal Lands Highway, Project Development and Design Manual.
8. FHWA Flexibility in Highway Design.
9. FHWA Roadside Improvements for Local Road and Streets.
10. FHWA Improving Guardrail Installations and Local Roads and Streets.
11. 23 CFR part 625, Design Standards for Highways.
12. 23 CFR part 630, Preconstruction Procedures.
13. 23 CFR part 633, Required Contract Provisions.
14. 23 CFR part 635, Construction and Maintenance.
15. 23 CFR part 645, Utilities.
16. 23 CFR part 646, Railroads.
17. 23 U.S.C. 106, PS
E.
18. 23 U.S.C. 109, Standards.
19. DOT Metric Conversion Plan, October 31, 1991.
20. MUTCD Manual of Uniform Traffic Safety Devices.
21. Standard Specifications for Construction of Roads and Bridges on Federal Highway Projects.
22. FHWA-approved State standards.
23. FHWA-approved Tribal design standards.

# Subpart E—Service Delivery for Tribal Transportation Program

# Funding Process
§ 170.600
What must BIA include in the notice of funds availability?
(a) Upon receiving the total or partial fiscal year of TTP funding from FHWA:
(1) BIA will send a notice of funds availability to each BIA Regional Office and FHWA that includes the TTP Tribal share funding available to each Tribe within each region; and
(2) BIA and FHWA will forward the information to the Tribes along with an offer of technical assistance.
(b) BIA and FHWA will distribute Tribal share funds to eligible Tribes upon execution of all required agreements or contracts between BIA/FHWA and the Tribe. This distribution must occur:
(1) Within 30 days after funds are made available to the Secretary under this paragraph; and
(2) Upon execution of all required agreements or contracts between BIA/FHWA and the Tribe.
(c) Funds made available under this section must only be expended on projects and activities identified in an FHWA-approved TTIP. The TTPTIP (see § 170.424) is available on the BIA Transportation and FHWA Web sites.
§ 170.602
If a Tribe incurs unforeseen construction costs, can it get additional funds?
The TTP is a Tribal shares program based upon a statutory funding formula. Therefore, no additional TTP funding beyond each Tribe's share is available for unforeseen construction costs. However, a Tribe may reprogram their TTP Tribal shares from other projects or activities identified on their FHWA-approved TTIP to cover
unforeseen costs. In addition, if a Tribe is operating under a self-determination contract, it may request that additional dollars from its TTP Tribal share funds be made available for that project under 25 CFR 900.130(e).

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 170.605
May BIA or FHWA use force-account methods in the TTP?
When requested by a Tribe, BIA or FHWA may use force-account methods in carrying out the eligible work of the TTP. Applicable Federal acquisition laws and regulations apply to BIA and FHWA when carrying out force-account activities on behalf of a Tribe.
§ 170.606
How do legislation and procurement requirements affect the TTP?
Other legislation and procurement requirements apply to the TTP as shown in the following table:
Legislation, regulation or other requirement
Applies to Tribes under self-
determination
contracts
Applies to Tribes under self-
governance
agreements
Applies to Tribes under BIA or FHWA program agreements
Applies to
activities
performed by the Secretary
Buy Indian Act
No
No
No
Yes.
Buy American Act
No
No
No
Yes.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
No(a)
No
No
Yes.
Federal Tort Claims Act
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Davis-Bacon Act
Yes(b)
Yes(b)
Yes(b)
Yes.
(a) Unless agreed to by the Tribe or Tribal organization under ISDEAA, 25 U.S.C. 450j(a), and 25 CFR 900.115.
(b) Does not apply when Tribe performs work with its own employees.
§ 170.607
Can a Tribe use its allocation of TTP funds for contract support costs?
Yes. Contract support costs are an eligible item out of a Tribe's TTP allocation and must be included in a Tribe's project construction budget.
§ 170.608
Can a Tribe pay contract support costs from DOI or BIA appropriations?
No. Contract support costs for TTP construction projects cannot be paid out of DOI or BIA appropriations.
§ 170.609
Can a Tribe receive additional TTP funds for start-up activities?
No. Additional TTP funding for start-up activities is not available.

# Contracts and Agreements
§ 170.610
Which TTP functions may a Tribe assume?
A Tribe may assume all TTP functions and activities that are otherwise contractible and non-inherently Federal under self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, Program Agreements; and other appropriate agreements. The appendix to this subpart contains the list of program functions that cannot be subcontracted. Administrative support functions are an eligible use of TTP funding.
§ 170.611
What special provisions apply to ISDEAA contracts and agreements?
(a)
Multi-year contracts and agreements.
The Secretary can enter into a multi-year TTP self-determination contract and self-governance agreement with a Tribe under sections 105(c)(1)(A) and (2) of ISDEAA. The amount of the contracts or agreements is subject to the availability of appropriations.
(b)
Consortia.
Under title I and title IV of ISDEAA, Tribes and multi-tribal organizations are eligible to assume TTPs under consortium contracts or agreements. For an explanation of self-determination contracts, refer to title I, 25 U.S.C. 450f. For an explanation of self-governance agreements, see title IV, 25 U.S.C. 450b(l) and 458b(b)(2).
(c)
Advance payments.
The Secretary and the Tribe must negotiate a schedule of advance payments as part of the terms of a self-determination contract under 25 CFR 900.132.
(d)
Design and construction contracts.
The Secretary can enter into a design/construct TTP self-determination contract that includes both the design and
construction of one or more TTP projects. The Secretary may make advance payments to a Tribe:
(1) Under a self-determination design/construct contract for construction activities based on progress, need, and the payment schedule negotiated under 25 CFR 900.132; and
(2) Under a self-governance agreement in the form of annual or semiannual installments as indicated in the agreement.
§ 170.612
Can non-contractible functions and activities be included in contracts or agreements?
Non-contractible TTP functions and activities cannot be included in self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, Program Agreements, or other agreements. The appendix to this subpart contains a list of TTP functions and activities that cannot be contracted.
§ 170.613
What funds are used to pay for non-contractible functions and activities?
(a) The administrative expenses funding identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(6) are used by the BIA and FHWA transportation personnel when performing non-contractible functions and activities, including:
(1) Program management and oversight; and
(2) Project-related administration activities.
(b) If a Tribe enters into a Program Agreement with FHWA under 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(7), the program agreement may include such additional amounts as the Secretary of Transportation determines would equal the amount that would have been withheld for the costs of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for administration of the program or project.
§ 170.614
Can a Tribe receive funds before BIA publishes the final notice of funding availability?
A Tribe can receive funds before BIA publishes the final notice of funding availability required by § 170.600(a) when partial year funding is made available to the TTP through continuing resolutions or other Congressional actions.
§ 170.615
Can a Tribe receive advance payments for non-construction activities under the TTP?
Yes. A Tribe must receive advance payments for non-construction activities under 25 U.S.C. 450
l
for self-determination contracts on a quarterly, semiannual, lump-sum, or other basis proposed by a Tribe and authorized by law.
§ 170.616
How are payments made to Tribes if additional funds are available?
After an Agreement between BIA or FHWA and the Tribe is executed, any additional funds will be made available to Tribes under the terms of the executed Agreement.
§ 170.617
May a Tribe include a contingency in its proposal budget?
(a) A Tribe with a self-determination contract may include a contingency amount in its proposed budget under 25 CFR 900.127(e)(8).
(b) A Tribe with a self-governance agreement may include a project-specific line item for contingencies if the Tribe does not include its full TTP funding allocation in the agreement.
(c) The amounts in both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be within the Tribal share made available or within the negotiated ISDEAA contract or agreement.
§ 170.618
Can a Tribe keep savings resulting from project administration?
All funds made available to a Tribe through the 23 U.S.C. 202(b) are considered “tribal” and are available to the Tribe until expended. However, they must be expended on projects and activities referenced on an FHWA-approved TTPTIP.
§ 170.619
Do Tribal preference and Indian preference apply to TTP funding?
Tribal preference and Indian preference apply to TTP funding as shown in the following table:
If . . .
Then . . .
(a) A contract serves a single Tribe
Section 7(c) under Title 1 of ISDEAA allows Tribal employment or contract preference laws, including Tribe local preference laws, to govern.
(b) A contract serves more than one Tribe
Section 7(b) under Title 1 of ISDEAA applies.
(c) A self-governance agreement exists under Title IV of ISDEAA
25 CFR 1000.406 applies.
(d) A Program Agreement
The language of the Program Agreement applies.
§ 170.620
How do ISDEAA's Indian preference provisions apply?
This section applies when the Secretary or a Tribe enters into a cooperative, reimbursable, or other agreement with a State or local government for a TTP construction project. The Tribe and the parties may choose to incorporate the provisions of section 7(b) of ISDEAA in the agreement.
§ 170.621
What if a Tribe doesn't perform work under a contract or agreement?
If a Tribe fails to substantially perform work under a contract or agreement:
(a) For self-determination contracts, the Secretary must use the monitoring and enforcement procedures in 25 CFR 900.131(a) and (b) and ISDEAA, part 900 subpart L (appeals);
(b) For self-governance agreements, the Secretary must use the monitoring and enforcement procedures in 25 CFR part 1000, subpart K; or
(c) For FHWA or BIA TTP Agreements, the Secretaries will use the procedures identified in the Agreements.
§ 170.622
What TTP functions, services, and activities are subject to the self-governance construction regulations?
All TTP design and construction projects and activities, whether included separately or under a program in the agreement, are subject to the regulations in 25 CFR part 1000, subpart K, including applicable exceptions.
§ 170.623
How are TTP projects and activities included in a self-governance agreement?
To include a TTP project or activity in a self-governance agreement, the following information is required:
(a) All work must be included in the FHWA-approved TTPTIP; and
(b) All other information required under 25 CFR part 1000, subpart K.
§ 170.624
Is technical assistance available?
Yes. Technical assistance is available from BIA, the Office of Self-Governance, and FHWA for Tribes with questions about contracting the TTP or TTP projects.
§ 170.625
What regulations apply to waivers?
The following regulations apply to waivers:
(a) For self-determination contracts, 25 CFR 900.140 through 900.148;
(b) For self-governance agreements, 25 CFR 1000.220 through 1000.232; and
(c) For direct service, 25 CFR 1.2.
§ 170.626
How does a Tribe request a waiver of a Department of Transportation regulation?
A Tribe can request a waiver of a Department of Transportation regulation as shown in the following table:
If the Tribe's contract or agreement is with . . .
and . . .
then the Tribe must . . .
(a) The Secretary
the contract is a self-determination contract
follow the procedures in ISDEAA, Title I, and 25 CFR 900.140 through 900.148.
(b) The Secretary
the agreement is a Tribal self-governance agreement
follow the procedures in 25 CFR 1000.220 through 1000.232.
(c) The Secretary of Transportation
make the request to the Secretary of Transportation at: 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., HFL-1, Washington, DC 20590.
§ 170.627
Can non-TTP funds be provided to a Tribe through an FHWA Program Agreement, BIA TTP Agreement or other appropriate agreement?
In addition to all funds made available under chapter 2 of title 23, the cooperation of States, counties, and other local subdivisions may be accepted in construction and improvement of a Tribal transportation facility. In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(9), any funds received from a State, county, or local subdivision may be credited by the Secretaries to appropriations available for the TTP. Subject to an agreement among the Tribe, BIA or FHWA, and the State, county, or local subdivision that addresses the purpose and intent of the funds such funds may be provided to the Tribe through an a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement or other appropriate agreement developed in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(6)
(b)(7).
Pt. 170, Subpt. E, App.

# Appendix to Subpart E of Part 170—List of Program Functions That Cannot Be Subcontracted
Per § 170.612, program functions cannot be included in self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, Program Agreements, or other agreements. Program functions include all of the following:
(a) TTP project-related pre-contracting activities:
(1) Notifying Tribes of available funding including the right of first refusal; and
(2) Providing technical assistance.
(b) TTP project-related contracting activities:
(1) Providing technical assistance;
(2) Reviewing all scopes of work under 25 CFR 900.122;
(3) Evaluating proposals and making declination decisions, if warranted;
(4) Performing declination activities;
(5) Negotiating and entering into contracts or agreements with State, Tribal, and local governments and other Federal agencies;
(6) Processing progress payments or contract payments;
(7) Approving contract modifications;
(8) Processing claims and disputes with Tribal governments; and
(9) Closing out contracts or agreements.
(c) Planning activities:
(1) Reviewing and approving TTPTIPs developed by Tribes or other contractors; and
(2) Reviewing and approving TTP LRTPs developed by Tribes or other contractors.
(d) Environmental and historical preservation activities:
(1) Reviewing and approving all items required for environmental compliance; and
(2) Reviewing and approving all items required for archaeological compliance.
(e) Processing rights-of-way:
(1) Reviewing rights-of-way applications and certifications;
(2) Approving rights-of-way documents;
(3) Processing grants and acquisition of rights-of-way requests for Tribal trust and allotted lands under 25 CFR part 169;
(4) Responding to information requests;
(5) Reviewing and approving documents attesting that a project was constructed entirely within a right-of-way granted by BIA; and
(6) Performing custodial functions related to storing rights-of-way documents.
(f) Conducting project development and design under 25 CFR 900.131:
(1) Participating in the plan-in-hand reviews on behalf of BIA as facility owner;
(2) Reviewing and/or approving PS
E for health and safety assurance on behalf of BIA as facility owner;
(3) Reviewing PS
E to assure compliance with NEPA as well as all other applicable Federal laws; and
(4) Reviewing PS
E to assure compliance with or exceeding Federal standards for TTP design and construction.
(g) Construction:
(1) Making application for clean air/clean water permits as facility owner;
(2) Ensuring that all required State/tribal/Federal permits are obtained;
(3) Performing quality assurance activities;
(4) Conducting value engineering activities as facility owner;
(5) Negotiating with contractors on behalf of the Federal Government;
(6) Approving contract modifications/change orders;
(7) Conducting periodic site visits;
(8) Performing all Federal Government-required project-related activities contained in the contract documents and required by 25 CFR parts 900 and 1000;
(9) Conducting activities to assure compliance with safety plans as a jurisdictional responsibility hazardous materials, traffic control, OSHA, etc.;
(10) Participating in final inspection and acceptance of project documents or as-built drawings on behalf of BIA as facility owner; and
(11) Reviewing project closeout activities and reports.
(h) Other activities:
(1) Performing other non-contractible required TTP project activities contained in this part, ISDEAA and part 1000; and
(2) Other title 23 non-project-related management activities.
(i) BIADOT program management:
(1) Developing budget on needs for the TTP;
(2) Developing legislative proposals;
(3) Coordinating legislative activities;
(4) Developing and issuing regulations;
(5) Developing and issuing TTP planning, design, and construction standards;
(6) Developing/revising interagency agreements;
(7) Developing and approving TTP stewardship agreements in conjunction with FHWA;
(8) Developing annual TTP obligation and TTP accomplishments reports;
(9) Developing reports on TTP project expenditures and performance measures for the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA);
(10) Responding to/maintaining data for congressional inquiries;
(11) Developing and maintaining the funding formula and its database;
(12) Allocating TTP and other transportation funding;
(13) Providing technical assistance to Tribes/Consortiums/tribal organizations/agencies/regions;
(14) Providing national program leadership for other Federal transportation related programs including: Transportation Alternatives Program, Tribal Transportation Assistance Program, Recreational Travel and Tourism, Transit Programs, ERFO Program, and Presidential initiatives;
(15) Participating in and supporting Tribal transportation association meetings;
(16) Coordinating with and monitoring Indian Local Technical Assistance Program centers;
(17) Planning, coordinating, and conducting BIA/tribal training;
(18) Developing information management systems to support consistency in data format, use, etc., with the Secretary of Transportation for the TTP;
(19) Participating in special transportation related workgroups, special projects, task forces and meetings as requested by Tribes;
(20) Participating in national, regional, and local transportation organizations;
(21) Participating in and supporting FHWA Coordinated Technology Implementation program;
(22) Participating in national and regional TTP meetings;
(23) Consulting with Tribes on non-project related TTP issues;
(24) Participating in TTP, process, and product reviews;
(25) Developing and approving national indefinite quantity service contracts;
(26) Assisting and supporting the TTP Coordinating Committee;
(27) Processing TTP bridge program projects and other discretionary funding applications or proposals from Tribes;
(28) Coordinating with FHWA;
(29) Performing stewardship of the TTP;
(30) Performing oversight of the TTP and its funded activities;
(31) Performing any other non-contractible TTP activity included in this part; and
(32) Determining eligibility of new uses of TTP funds.
(j) BIADOT Planning:
(1) Maintaining the official TTP inventory;
(2) Reviewing LRTPs;
(3) Reviewing and approving TTPTIPs;
(4) Maintaining nationwide inventory of TTP strip and atlas maps;
(5) Coordinating with Tribal/State/regional/local governments;
(6) Developing and issuing procedures for management systems;
(7) Distributing approved TTPTIPs to BIA regions;
(8) Coordinating with other Federal agencies as applicable;
(9) Coordinating and processing the funding and repair of damaged tribal roads with FHWA;
(10) Calculating and distributing TTP transportation planning funds to BIA regions;
(11) Reprogramming unused TTP transportation planning funds at the end of the fiscal year;
(12) Monitoring the nationwide obligation of TTP transportation planning funds;
(13) Providing technical assistance and training to BIA regions and Tribes;
(14) Approving atlas maps;
(15) Reviewing TTP inventory information for quality assurance; and
(16) Advising BIA regions and Tribes of transportation funding opportunities.
(k) BIADOT engineering:
(1) Participating in the development of design/construction standards with FHWA;
(2) Developing and approving design/construction/maintenance standards;
(3) Conducting TTP/product reviews; and
(4) Developing and issuing technical criteria for management systems.
(l) BIADOT responsibilities for bridges:
(1) Maintaining the National Bridge Inventory information/database for BIA bridges;
(2) Conducting quality assurance of the bridge inspection program;
(3) Reviewing and processing TTP Bridge Program applications;
(4) Participating in second level review of TTP bridge PS
E; and
(5) Developing criteria for bridge management systems.
(m) BIADOT responsibilities to perform other non-contractible required TTP activities contained in this part.
(n) BIA regional offices program management:
(1) Designating TTP System roads;
(2) Notifying Tribes of available funding;
(3) Developing STIPs;
(4) Providing FHWA-approved TTPTIPs to Tribes;
(5) Providing technical assistance to Tribes/Consortiums/tribal organizations/agencies;
(6) Funding common services as provided as part of the region/agency/BIA Division of Transportation TTP costs;
(7) Processing and investigating non-project related tort claims;
(8) Preparing budgets for BIA regional and agency TTP activities;
(9) Developing/revising interagency agreements;
(10) Developing control schedules/transportation improvement programs;
(11) Developing regional TTP stewardship agreements;
(12) Developing quarterly/annual TTP obligation and program accomplishments reports;
(13) Developing reports on TTP project expenditures and performance measures for Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA);
(14) Responding to/maintaining data for congressional inquiries;
(15) Participating in Indian transportation association meetings;
(16) Participating in Indian Local Technical Assistance Program (LTAP) meetings and workshops;
(17) Participating in BIA/tribal training development highway safety, work zone safety, etc.;
(18) Participating in special workgroups, task forces, and meetings as requested by Tribes and BIA region/agency personnel;
(19) Participating in national, regional, or local transportation organizations meetings and workshops;
(20) Reviewing Coordinated Technology Implementation Program project proposals;
(21) Consulting with Tribal governments on non-project related program issues;
(22) Funding costs for common services as provided as part of BIA TTP region/agency/contracting support costs;
(23) Reviewing TTP atlas maps;
(24) Processing Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests;
(25) Monitoring the obligation and expenditure of all TTP funds allocated to the BIA Region;
(26) Performing activities related to the application for ERFO funds, administration, and oversight of the funds; and
(27) Participating in TTP, process, and product reviews.
(o) BIA regional offices' planning:
(1) Coordinating with Tribal/State/regional/local government;
(2) Coordinating and processing the funding and repair of damaged Tribal Transportation Facility roads with Tribes;
(3) Reviewing and approving TTP inventory data;
(4) Maintaining, reviewing, and approving the management systems databases;
(5) Reviewing and approving STIPs; and
(6) Performing Federal responsibilities identified in the TTP Transportation Planning Procedures and Guidelines manual.
(p) BIA regional offices' engineering:
(1) Approving Tribal standards for TTP use;
(2) Developing and implementing new engineering techniques in the TTP; and
(3) Providing technical assistance.
(q) BIA regional offices' responsibilities for bridges:
(1) Reviewing and processing TTP Bridge Program applications;
(2) Reviewing and processing TTP bridge inspection reports and information; and
(3) Ensuring the safe use of roads and bridges.
(r) BIA regional offices' other responsibilities for performing other non-contractible required TTP activities contained in this part.

# Subpart F—Program Oversight and Accountability
§ 170.700
What is the TTP national business plan?
The TTP national business plan delineates the respective roles and responsibilities of BIA and FHWA in the administration of the TTP and the process used for fulfilling those roles and responsibilities.
§ 170.701
May a direct service Tribe and BIA Region sign a Memorandum of Understanding?
Yes. A direct service Tribe and BIA Region may sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). A TTP Tribal/BIA Region MOU is a document that a direct service Tribe and BIA may enter into to help define the roles, responsibilities and consultation process between the BIA regional office and the Indian Tribal government. It describes how the TTP will be carried out by BIA on the Tribe's behalf.
§ 170.702
What activities may the Secretaries review and monitor?
The Secretaries review and monitor the performance of all TTP activities.
§ 170.703
What program reviews do the Secretaries conduct?
(a) In accordance with title 23, the national business plan, 2 CFR part 200, and the Program Agreement or other
appropriate agreements, BIADOT and FHWA shall conduct formal program reviews of BIA Regional Offices or Tribes to examine program procedures and identify improvements. For a BIA Regional Office review, the regional Tribes will be notified of these formal program reviews. Tribes may send representatives to these meetings at their own expense.
(b) The review will provide recommendations to improve the program, processes and controls of management, planning, design, construction, financial and administration activities.
(c) After the review, the review team shall:
(1) Make a brief oral report of findings and recommendations to the Tribal leadership or BIA Regional Director; and
(2) Within 60 days, provide a written report of its findings and recommendations to the Tribe, BIA, all participants, and affected Tribal governments and organizations.
§ 170.704
What happens when the review process identifies areas for improvement?
When the review process identifies areas for improvement:
(a) The Tribe or regional office must develop a corrective action plan within 60 days;
(b) BIADOT and FHWA review and approve the plan;
(c) FHWA may provide technical assistance during the development and implementation of the plan; and
(d) The reviewed Tribe or BIA regional office implements the plan and reports either annually or biennially to BIADOT and FHWA on implementation.

# Subpart G—Maintenance
§ 170.800
What funds are available for maintenance activities?
(a) Under 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(8), a Tribe can use TTP funding for maintenance, within the following limits, whichever is greater:
(1) 25 percent of its TTP funds; or
(2) $500,000.
(b) These funds can only be used to maintain the public facilities included in the NTTFI.
(c) Road sealing activities are not subject to this limitation.
(d) BIA retains primary responsibility, including annual funding request responsibility, for BIA road maintenance programs on Indian reservations.
(e) The Secretary shall ensure that funding made available under the TTP for maintenance of Tribal transportation facilities for each fiscal year is supplementary to, and not in lieu of, any obligation of funds by the BIA for road maintenance programs on Indian reservations.
§ 170.801
Can TTP funds designated on an FHWA-approved TTIP for maintenance be used to improve TTP transportation facilities?
No. The funds identified for maintenance on a FHWA-approved TTIP cannot be used to improve roads or other TTP transportation facilities to a higher road classification, standard or capacity.
§ 170.802
Can a Tribe perform road maintenance?
Yes. A Tribe may enter into self-determination contracts, self-governance agreements, program agreements, and other appropriate agreements to perform Tribal transportation facility maintenance.
§ 170.803
To what standards must a Tribal transportation facility be maintained?
Subject to availability of funding, Tribal transportation facilities must be maintained under either:
(a) A standard accepted by BIA or FHWA (as identified in the official Tribal Transportation Program guide on either the BIA transportation Web site at
http://www.bia.gov/WhoWeAre/BIA/OIS/Transportation/index.htm
or the Federal Lands Highway—Tribal Transportation Program Web site at
http://flh.fhwa.dot.gov/programs/ttp/guide/
), or
(b) Another Tribal, Federal, State, or local government maintenance standard negotiated in an ISDEAA road maintenance self-determination contract or self-governance agreement.
§ 170.804
Who should be contacted if a Tribal transportation facility is not being maintained to TTP standards due to insufficient funding?
The Tribe may notify BIA or FHWA if the Tribe believes that a facility on the NTTFI is not being adequately maintained to the standards identified in § 170.803. If BIA or FHWA determines that a Tribal transportation facility is not being maintained, it will:
(a) Notify the facility owner;
(b) Provide a draft copy of the report to the affected Tribe for comment before forwarding it to Secretary of Transportation; and
(c) Report these findings to the appropriate office within FHWA.
§ 170.805
What maintenance activities are eligible for TTP funding?
TTP maintenance funding support a wide variety of activities necessary to maintain facilities identified in the NTTFI. A list of eligible activities is shown in the appendix to this part.
Pt. 170, Subpt. G, App.

# Appendix to Subpart G of Part 170—List of Eligible Maintenance Activities Under the Tribal Transportation Programf
The following maintenance activities are eligible for funding under the TTP. The list is not all-inclusive.
1. Cleaning and repairing ditches and culverts.
2. Stabilizing, removing, and controlling slides, drift sand, mud, ice, snow, and other impediments.
3. Adding additional culverts to prevent roadway and adjoining property damage.
4. Repairing, replacing or installing traffic control devices, guardrails and other features necessary to control traffic and protect the road and the traveling public.
5. Removing roadway hazards.
6. Repairing or developing stable road embankments.
7. Repairing parking facilities and appurtenances such as striping, lights, curbs, etc.
8. Repairing transit facilities and appurtenances such as bus shelters, striping, sidewalks, etc.
9. Training maintenance personnel.
10. Administering the BIA transportation facility maintenance program.
11. Performing environmental/archeological mitigation associated with transportation facility maintenance.
12. Leasing, renting, or purchasing of maintenance equipment.
13. Paying utilities cost for roadway lighting and traffic signals.
14. Purchasing maintenance materials.
15. Developing, implementing, and maintaining a BIA Transportation Facility Maintenance Management System (TFMMS).
16. Performing pavement maintenance such as pot hole patching, crack sealing, chip sealing, surface rejuvenation, and thin overlays (less than 1 inch).
17. Performing erosion control.
18. Controlling roadway dust.
19. Re-graveling roads.
20. Controlling vegetation through mowing, noxious weed control, trimming, etc.
21. Making bridge repairs.
22. Paying the cost of closing transportation facilities due to safety or other concerns.
23. Maintaining airport runways, heliport pads, and their public access roads.
24. Maintaining and operating BIA public ferry boats.
25. Making highway alignment changes for safety reasons. These changes require prior notice to the Secretary.
26. Making temporary highway alignment or relocation changes for emergency reasons.
27. Maintaining other TTP intermodal transportation facilities provided that there is a properly executed agreement with the owning public authority within available funding.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Provisions

# Reporting Requirements and Indian Preference
§ 170.910
What information on the TTP or projects must BIA or FHWA provide?
All available public information regarding the TTP can be found on the BIA transportation Web site at
http://www.bia.gov/WhoWeAre/BIA/OIS/Transportation/index.htm
or the Federal Lands Highway—Tribal Transportation Program Web site at
http://flh.fhwa.dot.gov/programs/ttp/
. If a Tribe would like additional information that is not available on the Web sites, the Tribe should contact FHWA or BIA directly. FHWA and BIA will then provide direction or assistance based upon the Tribe's specific request.
§ 170.911
Are Indians entitled to employment and training preferences?
(a) Federal law gives hiring and training preferences, to the greatest
extent feasible, to Indians for all work performed under the TTP.
(b) Under 25 U.S.C. 450e(b), 23 U.S.C. 140(d), 25 U.S.C. 47, and 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(3), Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises are entitled to a preference, to the greatest extent feasible, in the award of contracts, subcontracts and sub-grants for all work performed under the TTP.
§ 170.912
Does Indian employment preference apply to Federal-aid Highway Projects?
(a) Tribal, State, and local governments may provide an Indian employment preference for Indians living on or near a reservation on projects and contracts that meet the definition of a Tribal transportation facility. (See 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(12) and 140(d), and 23 CFR 635.117(d).)
(b) Tribes may target recruiting efforts toward Indians living on or near Indian reservations, Tribal lands, Alaska Native villages, pueblos, and Indian communities.
(c) Tribes and Tribal employment rights offices should work cooperatively with State and local governments to develop contract provisions promoting employment opportunities for Indians on eligible federally funded transportation projects. Tribal, State, and local representatives should confer to establish Indian employment goals for these projects.
§ 170.913
Do Tribal-specific employment rights and contract preference laws apply?
Yes. When a Tribe or consortium administers a TTP or project intended to benefit that Tribe or a Tribe within the consortium, the benefitting Tribe's employment rights and contracting preference laws apply. (See § 170.619 and 25 U.S.C. 450e(c))
§ 170.914
What is the difference between Tribal preference and Indian preference?
Indian preference is a hiring preference for Indians in general. Tribal preference is a preference adopted by a Tribal government that may or may not include a preference for Indians in general, Indians of a particular Tribe, Indians in a particular region, or any combination thereof.
§ 170.915
May Tribal employment taxes or fees be included in a TTP project budget?
Yes. The cost of Tribal employment taxes or fees may be included in the budget for a TTP project.
§ 170.916
May Tribes impose taxes or fees on those performing TTP services?
Yes. Tribes, as sovereign nations, may impose taxes and fees for TTP activities. When a Tribe administers TTPs or projects under ISDEAA, its Tribal employment and contracting preference laws, including taxes and fees, apply.
§ 170.917
Can Tribes receive direct payment of Tribal employment taxes or fees?
This section applies to non-tribally administered TTP projects. Tribes can request that BIA pay Tribal employment taxes or fees directly to them under a voucher or other written payment instrument, based on a negotiated payment schedule. Tribes may consider requesting direct payment of Tribal employment taxes or fees from other transportation departments in lieu of receiving their payment from the contractor.
§ 170.918
What applies to the Secretaries' collection of data under the TTP?
(a) Under 23 U.S.C. 201(c)(6)(A), the Secretaries will collect and report data necessary to implement the TTP in accordance with ISDEAA, including, but not limited to:
(1) Inventory and condition information on Tribal transportation facilities; and
(2) Bridge inspection and inventory information on any Federal bridge open to the public.
(b) In addition, under 23 U.S.C. 201(c)(6)(C), any entity that carries out a project under the TTP is required to provide the data identified in § 170.240.

# Tribal Transportation Departments
§ 170.930
What is a Tribal transportation department?
A Tribal transportation department is a department, commission, board, or official of any Tribal government
charged by its laws with the responsibility for transportation-related responsibilities, including but not limited to, administration, planning, maintenance, and construction activities. Tribal governments, as sovereign nations, have inherent authority to establish their own transportation departments under their own Tribal laws. Tribes may staff and organize transportation departments in any manner that best suits their needs. Tribes can receive technical assistance from TTACs, BIA regional road engineers, FHWA, or AASHTO to establish a Tribal transportation department.
§ 170.931
Can Tribes use TTP funds to pay Tribal transportation department operating costs?
Yes. Tribes can use TTP funds to pay the cost of planning, administration, and performance of approved TTP activities (see § 170.116). Tribes can also use BIA road maintenance funds to pay the cost of planning, administration, and performance of maintenance activities under this part.
§ 170.932
Are there other funding sources for Tribal transportation departments?
There are many sources of funds that may help support a Tribal transportation department. The following are some examples of additional funding sources:
(a) Tribal general funds;
(b) Tribal Priority Allocation;
(c) Tribal permits and license fees;
(d) Tribal fuel tax;
(e) Federal, State, private, and local transportation grants assistance;
(f) Tribal Employment Rights Ordinance fees (TERO); and
(g) Capacity building grants from Administration for Native Americans and other organizations.
§ 170.933
Can Tribes regulate oversize or overweight vehicles?
Yes. Tribal governments can regulate travel on roads under their jurisdiction and establish a permitting process to regulate the travel of oversize or overweight vehicles, under applicable Federal law. BIA may, with the consent of the affected Tribe, establish a permitting process to regulate the travel of oversize or overweight vehicles on the BIA road system.

# Resolving Disputes
§ 170.934
Are alternative dispute resolution procedures available?
(a) Federal agencies should use mediation, conciliation, arbitration, and other techniques to resolve disputes brought by TTP beneficiaries. The goal of these alternative dispute resolution (ADR) procedures is to provide an inexpensive and expeditious forum to resolve disputes. Federal agencies should resolve disputes at the lowest possible staff level and in a consensual manner whenever possible.
(b) Except as required in 25 CFR part 900 and part 1000, Tribes operating under a self-determination contract or self-governance agreement are entitled to use dispute resolution techniques prescribed in:
(1) The ADR Act, 5 U.S.C. 571-583;
(2) The Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. 601-613; and
(3) The ISDEAA and the implementing regulations (including for non-construction the mediation and alternative dispute resolution options listed in 25 U.S.C. 4501 (model contract section (b)(12)).
(4) Tribes operating under a Program Agreement with FHWA are entitled to use dispute resolution techniques prescribed in 25 CFR 170.934 and Article II, Section 4 of the Agreement.
§ 170.935
How does a direct service Tribe begin the alternative dispute resolution process?
(a) To begin the ADR process, a direct service Tribe must write to the BIA Regional Director, or the Chief of BIA Division of Transportation. The letter must:
(1) Ask to begin one of the ADR procedures in the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996, 5 U.S.C. 571-583 (ADR Act); and
(2) Explain the factual and legal basis for the dispute.
(b) ADR proceedings will be governed by procedures in the ADR Act and the implementing regulations.

# Other Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 170.941
May Tribes become involved in transportation research?
Yes. Tribes may:
(a) Participate in Transportation Research Board meetings, committees, and workshops sponsored by the National Science Foundation;
(b) Participate in and coordinate the development of Tribal and TTP transportation research needs;
(c) Submit transportation research proposals to States, FHWA, AASHTO, and FTA;
(d) Prepare and include transportation research proposals in their TTPTIPS;
(e) Access Transportation Research Information System Network (TRISNET) database; and
(f) Participate in transportation research activities under Intergovernmental Personnel Act agreements.
§ 170.942
Can a Tribe use Federal funds for transportation services for quality-of-life programs?
(a) A Tribe can use TTP funds:
(1) To coordinate transportation-related activities to help provide access to jobs and make education, training, childcare, healthcare, and other services more accessible to Tribal members; and
(2) As the matching share for other Federal, State, and local mobility programs.
(b) To the extent authorized by law, additional grants and program funds are available for the purposes in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from other programs administered by the Departments of Transportation, Health and Human Services, and Labor.
(c) Tribes should also apply for Federal and State public transportation and personal mobility program grants and funds.
Pt. 171

# PART 171—IRRIGATION OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
171.100
What are some of the terms I should know for this part?
171.105
Does this part apply to me?
171.110
How does BIA administer its irrigation facilities?
171.115
Can I and other irrigators establish representative organizations?
171.120
What are the authorities and responsibilities of a representative organization?
171.125
Can I appeal BIA decisions?
171.130
Who can I contact if I have any questions about these regulations or my irrigation service?
171.135
Where do I submit written information or requests?
171.140
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Irrigation Service
171.200
How do I request irrigation service from the BIA?
171.205
How much water will I receive?
171.210
Where will BIA provide my irrigation service?
171.215
What if the elevation of my farm unit is too high to receive irrigation water?
171.220
What must I do to my farm unit to receive irrigation service?
171.225
What must I do to receive irrigation service to my subdivided farm unit?
171.230
What are my responsibilities for wastewater?

# Subpart C—Water Use
171.300
Does BIA restrict my water use?
171.305
Will BIA provide leaching service to me?
171.310
Can I use water delivered by BIA for livestock purposes?

# Subpart D—Irrigation Facilities
171.400
Who is responsible for structures on a BIA irrigation project?
171.405
Can I build my own structure or take over responsibility of a BIA structure?
171.410
Can I install a fence on a BIA irrigation project?
171.415
Can I place an obstruction on a BIA irrigation project?
171.420
Can I dispose of sewage, trash, or other refuse on a BIA irrigation project?

# Subpart E—Financial Matters: Assessments, Billing, and Collections
171.500
How does BIA determine the annual operation and maintenance assessment rate for the irrigation facility servicing my farm unit?
171.505
How does BIA calculate my annual operation and maintenance assessment?
171.510
How does BIA calculate my annual operation and maintenance assessment if supplemental water is available on the irrigation facility servicing my farm unit?
171.515
Who will BIA bill?
171.520
How will I receive my bill and when do I pay it?
171.525
How do I pay my bill?
171.530
What information must I provide BIA for billing purposes?
171.535
Why is BIA collecting this information from me?
171.540
What can happen if I do not provide this information?
171.545
What can happen if I don't pay my bill on time?
171.550
Can I arrange a Payment Plan if I cannot pay the full amount due?
171.555
What additional costs will I incur if I am granted a Payment Plan?
171.560
What if I fail to make payments as specified in my Payment Plan?
171.565
How will I know if BIA plans to adjust my annual operation and maintenance assessment rate?
171.570
What is the Federal Register and where can I get it?
171.575
Can BIA charge me a special assessment?

# Subpart F—Records, Agreements, and Other Matters
171.600
What information is collected and retained on the irrigation service I receive?
171.605
Can I establish a Carriage Agreement with BIA?
171.610
Can I arrange an Incentive Agreement if I want to farm idle lands?
171.615
Can I request improvements to BIA facilities as part of my Incentive Agreement?

# Subpart G—Non-Assessment Status
171.700
When do I not have to pay my annual operation and maintenance assessment?
171.705
What criteria must be met for my land to be granted an Annual Assessment Waiver?
171.710
Can I receive irrigation water if I am granted an Annual Assessment Waiver?
171.715
How do I obtain an Annual Assessment Waiver?
171.720
For what period does an Annual Assessment Waiver apply?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2; 25 U.S.C. 9; 25 U.S.C. 13; 25 U.S.C. 381; Act of April 4, 1910, 36 Stat. 270, as amended (codified at 25 U.S.C. 385); 25 U.S.C. 386a; Act of June 22, 1936, 49 Stat. 1803 (codified at 25 U.S.C. 389
et seq.
).

# Source:
73 FR 11036, Feb. 29, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 171.100
What are some of the terms I should know for this part?
Annual Assessment Waiver
means a mechanism for us to waive your annual operation and maintenance assessment under certain specified circumstances.
Annual operation and maintenance assessment
means the charges you must pay us for our costs of administration, operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.
Annual operation and maintenance assessment rate
means the per acre charge we establish for the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.
Assessable acres
(see
Total assessable acres
).
Authorized use
means your use of water delivered by us that supports irrigated agriculture, livestock, Carriage Agreements or other uses defined by laws, regulations, treaty, compact, judicial decree, river regulatory plan, or other authority.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior.
Bill
means our statement to you of the assessment charges and/or fees you owe the United States for administration, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, and/or construction of the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.
Carriage Agreement
means a legally binding contract we enter into:
(1) To convey third-party water through our irrigation facilities; or
(2) To convey our water through third-party facilities.
Construction assessment
means the periodic charge we assess you to repay us the funds we used to construct our irrigation facilities serving your farm unit that are determined to be reimbursable under applicable statutes.
Customer
means any person or entity to whom we provide irrigation service.
Ditch
(see
Farm ditch
or
Service ditch
).
Due date
means the date printed on your bill, 30 days after which your bill becomes past due.
Facility
(see
Irrigation facility
).
Farm ditch
means a ditch or canal that you own, operate, maintain, and rehabilitate.
Farm unit
means the smallest parcel of land for which we will establish a delivery point. Farm unit size is defined in the authorizing legislation for each irrigation facility, or in the absence of such legislation, we will define the farm unit size.
I, me, my, you
, and
your
means all interested parties, especially persons or entities to which we provide irrigation service and receive use of our irrigation facilities, such as irrigators, landowners, leasees, irrigator organizations, irrigation districts, or other entities affected by this part and our supporting policies, manuals, and handbooks.
Idle lands
means lands that are not currently farmed because they have characteristics that limit crop production.
Incentive Agreement
means a written agreement between you and us that allows us to waive your annual operation and maintenance assessment, when you agree to improve idle lands and we determine that it is in the best interest of our irrigation facility.
Irrigation bill
(see
Bill
).
Irrigation district
(see
Representative organization
).
Irrigation facility
means all structures and appurtenant works for the delivery, diversion, and storage of irrigation water. These facilities may be referred to as projects, systems, or irrigation areas.
Irrigation service
means the full range of services we provide customers, including but not limited to administration, operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of our irrigation facilities.
Irrigation water
or
water
means water we deliver through our facilities for the general purpose of irrigation and other authorized purposes.
Irrigator
(see
Customer
).
Landowner
means a person or entity that owns fee, tribal trust, and/or individual allotted trust lands.
Leaching Service
means our delivery of water to you at your request for the purpose of transporting salts below the root zone of a farm unit.
Lessee
means any person or entity that holds a lease approved by us on lands to which we provide irrigation service.
Must
means an imperative or mandatory act or requirement.
My land
and
your land
mean all or part of your farm unit.
Obstruction
means anything permanent or temporary that blocks, hinders, impedes, stops or cuts off our facilities or our ability to perform the services we determine necessary to provide service to our customers.
Organization
(see
Representative organization
).
Past due bill
means a bill that has not been paid within 30 days of the due date stated on your bill.
Permanently non-assessable acres (PNA)
means lands that the Secretary of the Interior has determined to be permanently non-irrigable pursuant to the standards set out in 25 U.S.C. 389b.
Representative organization
or
organization
means a legally established organization representing your interests that confers with us on how we provide irrigation service at a particular irrigation facility.
Service(s)
(see
Irrigation service
).
Service area
means lands designated by us to be served by one of our irrigation facilities.
Service ditch
means a ditch or canal which we own, administer, operate, maintain, and rehabilitate that we use to provide irrigation service to your farm unit.
Soil salinity
means soils containing high salt content that limit crop production.
Special assessment
means a charge to cover the uncontrolled cost arising from an urgency on an irrigation facility.
Structures
(see
Irrigation facility
).
Subdivision
means a farm unit that has been subdivided into smaller parcels.
Supplemental water
means water available for delivery by our irrigation facilities beyond the quantity necessary to provide all project customers requesting water with the per-acre water duty established for that project.
Taxpayer identifying number
means either your Social Security Number or your Employer Identification Number.
Temporarily non-assessable acres (TNA)
means lands that the Secretary of the
Interior has determined to be temporarily non-irrigable pursuant to the standards set out in 25 U.S.C. 389a.
Total assessable acres
means the total acres of land served by one of our irrigation facilities to which we assess operation and maintenance charges. The
Total assessable acres
within the service area of an irrigation facility do not include those acres of land that are designated PNA or TNA, nor those acres of land granted an Annual Assessment Waiver.
Trust
or
restricted land
or
land in trust
or restricted status (see definitions in 25 CFR 151.2).
Urgency
means a situation that we have determined may adversely impact our irrigation facilities, operation, or other irrigation activities; affect public safety; or damage property or equipment.
Wastewater
means surface runoff and subsurface drainage from your farm unit from water delivered by us that exceeds irrigation requirements.
Water
(see
Irrigation water
).
Water delivery
is an activity that is part of the irrigation service we provide to our customers when water is available.
Water duty
means the amount of water, in acre-feet per acre, necessary for full-service irrigation. This value is established by decree, compact, or other legal document, or by specialized engineering studies.
Water user
(see
Customer
).
We
,
us
, and
our
means the United States Government, the Secretary of the Interior, BIA, and all who are authorized to represent us in matters covered under this part.
§ 171.105
Does this part apply to me?
This part applies to you if you own or lease land within an irrigation project where we assess fees and collect monies to administer, operate, maintain, and rehabilitate project facilities.
§ 171.110
How does BIA administer its irrigation facilities?
(a) We administer our irrigation facilities by enforcing the applicable statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, directives, Indian Affairs Manual, the Irrigation Handbook, and other written policies, procedures, directives, and practices to ensure the safe, reliable, and efficient administration, operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of our facilities. Such enforcement can include refusal or termination of irrigation services to you. Copies of the above listed items may be obtained from the irrigation project serving you.
(b) We will cooperate and consult with you, as appropriate, on irrigation activities and policies of the particular irrigation facility serving you.
§ 171.115
Can I and other irrigators establish representative organizations?
Yes. You and other irrigators may establish a representative organization under applicable law to represent your interests for the particular irrigation facilities serving you.
§ 171.120
What are the authorities and responsibilities of a representative organization?
(a) A legally established organization representing you may make rules, policies, and procedures it may find necessary to administer the activities it is authorized to perform.
(b) An organization must not make rules, policies, or procedures that conflict with our regulations or any of our other written policies, procedures, directives, and manuals.
(c) If this organization collects operation and maintenance assessments and construction assessments on your behalf to be paid to us, it must pay us all your past and current operation and maintenance and construction assessment charges before we will provide irrigation service to you.
§ 171.125
Can I appeal BIA decisions?
(a) You may appeal our decisions in accordance with procedures set out in 25 CFR part 2, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
(b) If you appeal an irrigation bill, you must pay the bill in accordance with subpart E before we will provide irrigation service to you. If you prevail on appeal, any overpayment will be refunded to you.
§ 171.130
Who can I contact if I have any questions about these regulations or my irrigation service?
Contact the local irrigation project where you receive service or want to apply for service. If your questions are not addressed to your satisfaction at the local project level, you may contact the appropriate BIA Regional Office.
§ 171.135
Where do I submit written information or requests?
Submit written information to us or make request of us in writing at the irrigation project servicing your farm unit.
§ 171.140
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0141. This information collection is specifically found in 25 CFR sections 171.200, 171.225, 171.305, 171.310, 171.405, 171.410, 171.530, 171.550, 171.600, 171.605, 171.610, 171.615, 171.710, 171.715. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Irrigation Service
§ 171.200
How do I request irrigation service from the BIA?
(a) You must request service from the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.
(b) Your request must contain at least the following information:
(1) Your full legal name;
(2) Where you want service;
(3) The time and date you want service to start;
(4) How long you want service;
(5) The rate of water flow you want, if available;
(6) How many acres you want to irrigate; and
(7) Any additional information required by the project office responsible for providing your irrigation service.
(c) You must request supplemental water in accordance with the project guidelines established by the specific project providing your irrigation service.
§ 171.205
How much water will I receive?
The amount of water you receive will be based on your request, your legal entitlement to water, and the available water supply.
§ 171.210
Where will BIA provide my irrigation service?
(a) We will provide service to your farm unit at a single delivery point that we designate.
(b) At our discretion, we may establish additional delivery points when:
(1) We determine it is impractical to deliver water to your farm unit from a single delivery point;
(2) You agree in writing to be responsible for all costs to establish an additional delivery point;
(3) You pay us our costs prior to our establishing an additional delivery point; and
(4) Any work accomplished under this section does not disrupt our service to other customers without their written agreement.
(c) We may establish your delivery point(s) at a well head.
§ 171.215
What if the elevation of my farm unit is too high to receive irrigation water?
(a) We will not change our service ditch level to provide service to you.
(b) You may install, operate, and maintain your own facilities, at your cost, to provide service to your land:
(1) From a delivery point we designate; and
(2) In accordance with specifications we approve.
§ 171.220
What must I do to my farm unit to receive irrigation service?
You must meet the following requirements for us to provide service:
(a) Put water we deliver to authorized uses;
(b) Make sure your farm ditch has sufficient capacity to carry the water we deliver; and
(c) Properly operate, maintain, and rehabilitate your farm ditch.
§ 171.225
What must I do to receive irrigation service to my subdivided farm unit?
In order to receive irrigation service, you must:
(a) Provide us a copy of the recorded plat or map of the subdivision which shows us how the irrigation water will be delivered to the irrigable acres;
(b) Pay for any extensions or alterations to our facilities that we approve to serve the subdivided units;
(c) Construct, at your cost, any facilities within your subdivided farm unit; and
(d) Operate and maintain, at your cost, any facilities within your subdivided farm unit.
§ 171.230
What are my responsibilities for wastewater?
(a) You are responsible for your wastewater.
(b) Wastewater may be returned to our facilities, but only at locations we designate, in a manner we approve, and at your cost.
(c) You must not allow your wastewater to flow or collect on our facilities or roads, except at locations we designate and in a manner we approve.
(d) If you fail to comply with this section, we may withhold services to you.

# Subpart C—Water Use
§ 171.300
Does BIA restrict my water use?
(a) You must not interfere with or alter our service to you without our prior written authorization; and
(b) You must only use water we deliver for authorized uses. We may withhold services if you use water for any other purpose.
§ 171.305
Will BIA provide leaching service to me?
(a) We may provide you leaching service if:
(1) You submit a written plan that documents how soil salinity limits your crop production and how leaching service will correct the problem;
(2) We approve your plan in writing; and
(3) Your irrigation bills are not past due.
(b) Leaching service will only be available during the timeframe established by your irrigation facility.
(c) We reserve the right to terminate this service if we determine you are not complying with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 171.310
Can I use water delivered by BIA for livestock purposes?
Yes, if we determine it will not:
(a) Interfere with the operation, maintenance, or rehabilitation of our facilities;
(b) Be detrimental to or jeopardize our facilities;
(c) Adversely affect the water rights or water supply; or
(d) Cause additional costs to us that we do not agree to in writing.

# Subpart D—Irrigation Facilities
§ 171.400
Who is responsible for structures on a BIA irrigation project?
(a) We may build, operate, maintain, rehabilitate or remove structures, including bridges and other crossings, on our irrigation projects.
(b) We may build other structures for your private use during the construction or extension of an irrigation project. We may charge you for structures built for your private use under this section, and we may require you to maintain them.
(c) If we require you to maintain a structure and you do not do so to our satisfaction, we may remove it or perform the necessary maintenance, and we will bill you for our costs.
§ 171.405
Can I build my own structure or take over responsibility of a BIA structure?
You may build a structure on our irrigation facility for your private use or take responsibility of one of our structures, but only under a written agreement between you and us which:
(a) Relieves us from any future liability or responsibility for the structure;
(b) Relieves us from any future costs incurred for maintaining the structure;
(c) Describes what is granted by us and accepted by you; and
(d) Provides that if you do not regularly use a structure for a period of time that we have determined, or you
do not properly maintain and rehabilitate the structure, we will notify you in writing that:
(1) You must either remove it or correct any unsafe condition;
(2) If you do not comply with our notice, we may remove the structure and you must reimburse us our costs; and
(3) We may modify, close, or remove your structure without notice due to an urgency we have identified.
§ 171.410
Can I install a fence on a BIA irrigation project?
Yes. Fences are considered structures and may be installed in compliance with § 171.405.
§ 171.415
Can I place an obstruction on a BIA irrigation project?
No. You may not place obstructions on BIA irrigation projects.
(a) If you do so, we will notify you in writing that you must remove it.
(b) If you do not remove your obstruction in compliance with our notice, we will remove it and we will bill you for our costs.
(c) We can remove your obstruction without notice because of an urgency we have identified.
§ 171.420
Can I dispose of sewage, trash, or other refuse on a BIA irrigation project?
No. Sewage, trash, or other refuse are considered obstructions and must be removed in accordance with § 171.415.

# Subpart E—Financial Matters: Assessments, Billing, and Collections
§ 171.500
How does BIA determine the annual operation and maintenance assessment rate for the irrigation facility servicing my farm unit?
(a) We calculate the annual operation and maintenance assessment rate by estimating the following annual costs and then dividing by the total assessable acres for your irrigation facility:
(1) Personnel salary and benefits for the facility engineer/manager and employees under their management or control;
(2) Materials and supplies;
(3) Vehicle and equipment repairs;
(4) Equipment costs, including lease fees;
(5) Depreciation;
(6) Acquisition costs;
(7) Maintenance of a reserve fund available for contingencies or emergency costs needed for the reliable operation of the irrigation facility infrastructure;
(8) Maintenance of a vehicle and heavy equipment replacement fund;
(9) Systematic rehabilitation and replacement of project facilities;
(10) Contingencies for unknown costs and omitted budget items; and
(11) Other costs we determine necessary to properly perform the activities and functions characteristic of an irrigation facility.
(b) Annual operation and maintenance assessment rates may be lowered through the exercise of our discretion when items listed in (a) of this section are adjusted pursuant to our authority under 25 U.S.C. 385, 386a and 389.
(c) If you subdivide your farm unit, you may be subject to a higher annual operation and maintenance assessment rate, which we publish annually in the
Federal Register.
(d) At projects where supplemental water is available, the calculation of your annual operation and maintenance assessment rate may take into consideration the total estimated annual amount to be collected for supplemental water deliveries.
§ 171.505
How does BIA calculate my annual operation and maintenance assessment?
(a) We calculate your annual operation and maintenance assessment by multiplying the total assessable acres of your land within the service area of our irrigation facility by the annual operation and maintenance assessment rate we establish for that facility.
(b) We will not assess lands that have been re-classified as either permanently non-assessable (PNA) or temporarily non-assessable (TNA) or lands that have been granted an Annual Assessment Waiver.
(c) If your lands are under an approved Incentive Agreement, we may waive your assessment as described in the Incentive Agreement (See § 171.610).
(d) Some irrigation facilities may charge a minimum operation and maintenance assessment. If the irrigation facility serving your farm unit charges a minimum operation and maintenance assessment that is more than your assessment calculated by the method described in subpart (a) of this section, you will be charged the minimum operation and maintenance assessment. We provide public notice of any minimum operation and maintenance assessments annually in the
Federal Register
(See § 171.565).
§ 171.510
How does BIA calculate my annual operation and maintenance assessment if supplemental water is available on the irrigation facility servicing my farm unit?
(a) For projects where supplemental water is available, and you request and receive supplemental water, your assessment will include two components: a base rate, which is for your per-acre water duty delivered to your farm unit; and a supplemental water rate, which is for water delivered to your farm unit in addition to your per-acre water duty.
(b) We publish base and supplemental water rates annually in the
Federal Register.
The base and supplemental water rates are established to recover the costs identified in section 171.500(a) of this subpart.
(c) If your project has established a supplemental water rate, and you request and receive supplemental water, we will calculate your total annual operation and maintenance assessment by adding the following two totals:
(1) The total assessable acres of your land within the service area of our irrigation facility multiplied by the annual operation and maintenance assessment rate we establish for that facility; and
(2) The actual quantity of supplemental water you request and we agree to deliver (in acre-feet) times the supplemental water rate established for that facility.
§ 171.515
Who will BIA bill?
(a) We will bill the landowner, unless:
(1) The land is leased under a lease approved by us, in which case we will bill the lessee, or
(2) The landowner(s) is represented by a representative organization that collects annual operation and maintenance assessments on behalf of its members and the representative organization makes a direct payment to us on your behalf.
(b) If you own or lease assessable lands within a BIA irrigation facility, you will be billed for annual operation and maintenance assessments, whether you request water or not, unless otherwise specified in § 171.505(b).
§ 171.520
How will I receive my bill and when do I pay it?
(a) You will receive your bill in the mail at the address of record you provide us.
(b) You should pay your bill no later than the due date stated on your bill.
(c) You will not receive a bill for supplemental water. You must pay us in advance at the supplemental water rate established for you project published annually in the
Federal Register.
§ 171.525
How do I pay my bill?
(a) You can pay your bill by:
(1) Personally going to the local office of the irrigation facility authorized to receive your payment during normal business hours;
(2) Depositing your payment in an authorized drop box, if available, at the local office of the irrigation facility; or
(3) Mailing your payment to the address indicated on your bill.
(b) Your payment must be in the form of:
(1) Check or money order in the mail or authorized drop box; or
(2) Cash, check, or money order if you pay in person.
§ 171.530
What information must I provide BIA for billing purposes?
We must obtain certain information from you to ensure we can properly bill, collect, deposit, and account for money you owe the United States. At a minimum, this information is:
(a) Your full legal name;
(b) Your correct mailing address; and
(c) Your taxpayer identifying number.
§ 171.535
Why is BIA collecting this information from me?
(a) As part of doing business with you, we must collect enough information from you to properly bill and service your account.
(b) We are required to collect your taxpayer identifying number under the authority of, and as prescribed in, the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-364).
§ 171.540
What can happen if I do not provide this information?
We will not provide you irrigation service.
§ 171.545
What can happen if I don't pay my bill on time?
(a) We will not provide you irrigation service until:
(1) Your bill is paid; or
(2) You make arrangement for payment pursuant to § 171.550 of this part.
(b) If you do not pay your bill prior to the close of business on the 30th day after the due date, we consider your bill past due, send you a notice, and assess you the following:
(1) Interest, as required by 31 U.S.C. 3717. Interest will accrue from the original due date stated on your bill.
(2) An administrative fee, as required by 31 CFR 901.9.
(c) If you do not pay your bill prior to the close of business of the 90th day after the due date, we will assess you a penalty, as required by 31 CFR 901.9(d). Penalties will accrue from the original due date stated on your bill.
(d) We will forward your past due bill to the United States Treasury no later than 180 days after the original due date, as required by 31 CFR 901.1, “Aggressive agency collection activity.”
§ 171.550
Can I arrange a Payment Plan if I cannot pay the full amount due?
We may approve a Payment Plan if:
(a) You are a landowner and your land is not leased;
(b) You certify that you are financially unable to make a lump sum payment;
(c) You provide additional information we request, which may include information identified in 31 CFR 901.8, “Collection in installments”; and
(d) You sign our Payment Plan containing terms and conditions we specify.
§ 171.555
What additional costs will I incur if I am granted a Payment Plan?
You will incur the following costs:
(a) An administrative fee to process your Payment Plan, as required by 31 CFR 901.9.
(b) Interest, accrued on your unpaid balance, in accordance with § 171.545.
§ 171.560
What if I fail to make payments as specified in my Payment Plan?
(a) We will discontinue irrigation service until your bill is paid in full;
(b) You will be in default, you will be assessed an administrative fee, and your debt will be immediately forwarded to the United States Treasury in accordance with the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134).
(c) You will be ineligible for Payment Plans for the next 6 years.
§ 171.565
How will I know if BIA plans to adjust my annual operation and maintenance assessment rate?
(a) We provide public notice of our proposed rates annually in the
Federal Register.
(b) You may contact the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.
§ 171.570
What is the Federal Register and where can I get it?
(a) The
Federal Register
is the official daily publication for Rules, Proposed Rules, and Notices of official actions by Federal agencies and organizations, as well as Executive Orders and other Presidential Documents, and is produced by the United States Government Printing Office (GPO).
(b) You can get publications of the
Federal Register
:
(1) By going on the World Wide Web at
http://www.gpo.gov
;
(2) By writing to the GPO, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15250-7954; or
(3) By calling GPO at (202) 512-1530.
§ 171.575
Can BIA charge me a special assessment?
Yes. We will make every reasonable effort to avoid charging special assessments. However, if we determine that we have a significant uncontrolled cost due to an urgency, we may charge you a special assessment. We will only charge special assessments when there are inadequate project funds available, including any emergency reserve funds held by the project.The special assessment rate will be calculated by dividing the total uncontrolled cost, or some portion of that cost, by the total number of assessable acres. Your individual special assessment will be equal to the special assessment rate multiplied by the number of assessable acres in your farm unit.

# Subpart F—Records, Agreements, and Other Matters
§ 171.600
What information is collected and retained on the irrigation service I receive?
We will collect and retain at least the following information as part of our record of the irrigation service we have provided you:
(a) Your name;
(b) Delivery point(s) where service was provided;
(c) Beginning date and time of your irrigation service;
(d) Ending date and time of your irrigation service; and
(e) Amount of water we delivered to your farm unit.
§ 171.605
Can I establish a Carriage Agreement with BIA?
(a) We may agree in writing to carry third-party water through our facilities to your lands not served by our facilities if we have determined that our facilities have adequate capacity to do so.
(b) If we determine that carrying water in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is jeopardizing our ability to provide irrigation service to the lands we are required to serve, we will terminate the Agreement.
(c) We may enter into an agreement with a third party to provide service through their facilities to your isolated assessable lands.
(d) You must pay us all administrative, operating, maintenance, and rehabilitation costs associated with any agreement established under this section before we will convey water.
(e) We will notify you in writing no less than five days before terminating a Carriage Agreement established under this section.
(f) We may terminate a Carriage Agreement without notice due to an urgency we have identified.
§ 171.610
Can I arrange an Incentive Agreement if I want to farm idle lands?
We may approve an Incentive Agreement if:
(a) You request one in writing at least 90 days prior to the beginning of the irrigation season that includes a detailed plan to improve the idle lands, which contains at least the following:
(1) A description of specific improvements you will make, such as clearing, leveling, or other activities that will improve idle lands to a condition that supports authorized use of delivered water;
(2) The estimated cost of the improvements you will make;
(3) The time schedule for your proposed improvements;
(4) Your proposed schedule for water delivery, if necessary; and
(5) Justification for use of irrigation water during the improvement period.
(b) You sign our Incentive Agreement containing terms and conditions we specify.
§ 171.615
Can I request improvements to BIA facilities as part of my Incentive Agreement?
Yes. You may request and we may agree to make improvements as part of your Incentive Agreement that we determine are in the best interest of the irrigation facility servicing your farm unit.

# Subpart G—Non-Assessment Status
§ 171.700
When do I not have to pay my annual operation and maintenance assessment?
You do not have to pay your annual operation and maintenance assessment
for your land(s) within the service area of your irrigation facility when:
(a) We grant you an Annual Assessment Waiver; or
(b) We grant you an Incentive Agreement which may include waiving your annual operation and maintenance assessment; or
(c) Your land is re-designated as permanently non-assessable or temporarily non-assessable.
§ 171.705
What criteria must be met for my land to be granted an Annual Assessment Waiver?
For your land to be granted an Annual Assessment Waiver, we must determine that our irrigation facilities are not capable of delivering adequate irrigation water to your farm unit. Inadequate water supply due to natural conditions or climate is not justification for us to grant an Annual Assessment Waiver.
§ 171.710
Can I receive irrigation water if I am granted an Annual Assessment Waiver?
No. Water will not be delivered in any quantity to your farm unit if you have been granted an Annual Assessment Waiver.
§ 171.715
How do I obtain an Annual Assessment Waiver?
For your land to be granted an Annual Assessment Waiver, you must:
(a) Send us a request in writing to have your land granted an Annual Assessment Waiver;
(b) Submit your request prior to the bill due date for the year for which you are requesting the Annual Assessment Waiver; and
(c) Receive our approval in writing.
§ 171.720
For what period does an Annual Assessment Waiver apply?
Annual Assessment Waivers are only valid for the year in which they are granted. To obtain an Annual Assessment Waiver for a subsequent year, you must reapply.
Pt. 172

# PART 172—PUEBLO INDIAN LANDS BENEFITED BY IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE WORKS OF MIDDLE RIO GRANDE CONSERVANCY DISTRICT, NEW MEXICO

# Authority:
45 Stat. 312.
§ 172.1
Acreage designated.
Pursuant to the provisions of the act of March 13, 1928 (45 Stat. 312) the contract executed between the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District of New Mexico and the United States under date of December 14, 1928, the official plan approved pursuant thereto, as modified, and the terms of section 24 of a contract between said parties dated September 4, 1936, dealing among other things with the payment of operation and maintenance and betterment assessments by the United States to the District, and section 24 of a similar contract dated April 8, 1938 executed by the representative of the United States, on this date, it is found that a total of 20,242.05 acres of Pueblo Indian lands of the Pueblos of Cochiti, Santo Domingo, San Felipe, Santa Ana, Sandia and Isleta is susceptible of economic irrigation and cultivation and is materially benefited by the works constructed by said District. This acreage is designated as follows:
Lands with recognized water rights not subject to operation and maintenance or betterment charges by the District and designated as “now irrigated”—8,847
Lands classified as “newly reclaimed” lands (exclusive of the purchased area)—11,074.4
Lands classified as newly reclaimed lands (the area recently purchased)—320.65
Total irrigable area materially benefited—20,242.05
[22 FR 10641, Dec. 24, 1957. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
Pt. 173

# PART 173—CONCESSIONS, PERMITS AND LEASES ON LANDS WITHDRAWN OR ACQUIRED IN CONNECTION WITH INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Sec.
173.0
Scope.
173.1
Terms used.
173.2
Project engineer's authority.
173.3
Enforcement.
173.4
Permits subject to existing and future rights-of-way.
173.5
Plans, approval thereof.
173.6
Stock grazing.
173.7
Permits, transferable.
173.8
Applications.
173.9
Bonds.
173.10
Payments.
173.11
Supervision of permittees' rates.
173.12
Services from project.
173.13
Permit not a lease.
173.14
Further requirements authorized.
173.15
Permittee subject to State law.
173.16
Reserved area, Coolidge Dam.
173.17
Agricultural and grazing permits and leases.
173.18
Term and renewal of permits.
173.19
Improvements.
173.20
Revocation of permits.
173.21
Notice to vacate.
173.22
Disposition of revenue.
173.23
Organized tribes.

# Authority:
52 Stat. 193; 25 U.S.C. 390.

# Source:
22 FR 10642, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 173.0
Scope.
The regulations in this part are promulgated governing the granting of concessions, business, agricultural and grazing leases or permits on reservoir sites, reserves for canals or flowage areas, and other lands withdrawn or otherwise acquired in connection with the San Carlos, Fort Hall, Flathead and Duck Valley or Western Shoshone irrigation projects.
§ 173.1
Terms used.
When used in this part “Secretary” refers to the Secretary of the Interior; “project” to the Federal Indian irrigation project on which concession, lease or permit is granted, and “project engineer” to the engineer in charge of said project.
§ 173.2
Project engineer's authority.
The project engineer is the official charged with the responsibility for the enforcement of this part. He is vested with the authority to issue temporary concession permits to applicants for periods not to exceed 30 days. All except temporary permits shall become effective when approved by the Secretary.
§ 173.3
Enforcement.
The project engineer shall enforce these and all project regulations now or hereafter promulgated by the Secretary. Willful violation or failure to comply with the provisions of this part and all proper orders of the project engineer shall be cause for revocation of the permit by the Secretary who shall be the judge of what constitutes such violation. The project engineer may suspend any permit for cause. The project engineer shall, immediately after suspending a permit, submit to the Secretary through the Commissioner of Indian Affairs a detailed report of the case, accompanied by his reasons for the action and his recommendations, for final action by the Secretary.
§ 173.4
Permits subject to existing and future rights-of-way.
Use by the permittee of any land authorized under this part shall be subject to the right of the Secretary to establish trails, roads and other rights-of-way including improvements thereupon or through the premises, and the right to use same by the public. No interference shall be permitted with the continued use of all existing roads, trails and other rights-of-way and improvements thereon.
§ 173.5
Plans, approval thereof.
No building or other structure shall be erected by permittee except in accordance with plans, specifications and locations approved by the project engineer. All premises and appurtenances shall be kept in a sanitary, safe and sightly condition.
§ 173.6
Stock grazing.
Permittees may graze upon lands covered by such permits, such stock as may be required in connection with the purposes for which the permit is issued subject to such restrictions and limitations as may be prescribed by the project engineer.
§ 173.7
Permits, transferable.
Permits may be transferred only with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 173.8
Applications.
All applications for permits must be made on the approved form. The project engineer will furnish copies of this form upon request. All applications must be executed in triplicate.
§ 173.9
Bonds.
Except in cases of temporary concession permits, leases, permits, and traders' licenses granted under parts 166, 162, and 140 of this chapter, which are governed by the requirements of those parts, the applicant shall within 60 days after approval of the application furnish a surety bond for the faithful performance of the terms of the permit in an amount equal to the total sum accruing during the period of the permit. Such bond shall be executed by an approved surety company, or by at least three individual sureties, whose individual unencumbered assets are equal to double the amount of the bond. In the case of temporary concession permits, the permittee shall deposit at the time of receiving the permit, a sum equal to twice the rental, which sum shall, upon the expiration of the permit, be refunded to the permittee, if all the terms and conditions of the permit have been met; otherwise, such sum shall be retained as liquidated damages.
§ 173.10
Payments.
Each permittee shall pay at the time of receiving the permit the first year's charge as fixed therein. When a permit extends over a period of years, the next and succeeding payments shall be due and payable annually in advance. The full amount accruing under a temporary permit shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
§ 173.11
Supervision of permittees' rates.
All rates or charges collected by a permittee for services rendered by the permittee in the operation of the concession granted under a permit, must be submitted through the project engineer to the Secretary for approval. Copies of the approved rate schedule shall be posted in at least two conspicuous places on the premises. Approved rates may not be changed without first obtaining in the same manner a change in the rate schedule. The Secretary shall have the right to readjust rates charged from time to time and to amend or change any permit issued. Failure to comply with the approved rates automatically makes the permit subject to cancellation.
§ 173.12
Services from project.
When the facilities of the project make it possible to supply water for domestic purposes, electricity or any other type of service to the permittee, the cost of connecting the project facilities shall be borne by the permittee and the work must be in accordance with standard practices and accepted by the project engineer, and as provided for in project regulations. All services rendered by the project to the permittee shall be paid for at the existing or modified schedule of rates; or if no schedule has been approved, at a rate to be approved by the Secretary which will reasonably reimburse the project for the cost of such services.
§ 173.13
Permit not a lease.
Any permit issued under this part does not grant any leasehold interest nor cover the sale, barter, merchandising, or renting of any supplies or equipment except as therein specified. Any permittee who engages in trade with the Indians must also apply for and receive a trader's license as provided by part 140 of this chapter.
§ 173.14
Further requirements authorized.
The project engineer is authorized to incorporate into any proposed permit to meet the needs of any particular case, subject to the approval of the Secretary, such further special requirements as may be agreed upon by him and the applicant, such requirements to be consistent with the general purposes of this part.
§ 173.15
Permittee subject to State law.
The holder of any permit issued under this part shall be subject to and abide by the laws and regulations of the United States and State laws if applicable to the conduct of the particular business or activity conducted by the permittee. Violations of this section shall render the permit void
but shall not release the permittee from any obligations arising thereunder.
§ 173.16
Reserved area, Coolidge Dam.
No permit for any commercial business or other activity (except boating concessions confined to the Soda Spring Canyon) shall be issued to any applicant to operate within a radius of three-fourths of a mile from the center of the Coolidge Dam, Arizona.
§ 173.17
Agricultural and grazing permits and leases.
(a) Permits or leases may be granted after the lands set forth in § 173.0 have been classified as to use and then only for the purpose for which the land is classified. Permits for grazing lands suitable for division into range units shall be granted in accordance with part 166 of this chapter; and agricultural lands and all other grazing lands shall be leased in accordance with part 166 of this chapter.
(b) Lands for which leases or permits are granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of this part shall not be eligible for benefit payments under the provisions and conditions of the Crop Control and Soil Conservation Act of April 27, 1935 (49 Stat. 163; 16 U.S.C. 590a), as amended by the act of February 29, 1936 (49 Stat. 1148; 16 U.S.C. 590g), and subsequent amendatory acts.
§ 173.18
Term and renewal of permits.
No concession granted under the provisions of this part shall extend for a period in excess of 10 years. An application for the renewal of a lease, permit, or concession permit shall be treated in the same manner as an original application under this part. Should there be an application or applications other than the renewal application for a permit covering the same area, the renewal application may, if the applicant has met all the requirements of the expiring permit and has been a satisfactory permittee, be given preferential consideration for the renewal of the permit should the applicant meet the highest and most satisfactory offer contained in the several applications.
§ 173.19
Improvements.
Title to improvements constructed on the premises by the permittee shall be fixed and determined by the terms of the permit.
§ 173.20
Revocation of permits.
Any permit issued pursuant to this part may be revoked at any time within the discretion of the Secretary. Agricultural and grazing leases dealt with in § 173.17 shall be subject to cancellation as provided for in the respective parts 162 and 166 of this chapter, and the conditions of the instruments executed pursuant thereto.
§ 173.21
Notice to vacate.
A permittee shall within 10 days after notification in writing of the cancellation of his permit by the Secretary, vacate the premises covered by the said permit. Any person occupying lands dealt with in the act of April 4, 1938 (52 Stat. 193) without an approved permit or lease shall be notified in writing by the project engineer of the requirements of this part and that for the failure of such person to comply with these requirements and receive a permit or lease within 60 days after receipt of the written notice shall constitute a willful violation of this part, and the project engineer shall submit promptly to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs a detailed report concerning the case, together with recommendations looking to the taking of appropriate legal action to remove such person from the area and to the collection of such funds to compensate for any use made of the property or damages suffered thereto.
§ 173.22
Disposition of revenue.
Funds derived from concessions or leases under this part except those so derived from Indian tribal property withdrawn for irrigation purposes and for which the tribe has not been compensated, shall be available for expenditure under existing law in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation project on which collected and as provided for in part 161 of this chapter. Funds so derived from Indian tribal property withdrawn for irrigation purposes and for which the tribe has not
been compensated, shall be deposited to the credit of the proper tribe.
§ 173.23
Organized tribes.
Concessions and leases on tribal lands withdrawn or reserved for the purposes specified in the act of April 4, 1938 (52 Stat. 193) and dealt with in this part, of any Indian tribe organized under section 16 of the act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 476) for which the tribe has not been compensated shall be made by the organized tribe pursuant to its constitution or charter:
Provided,
No lease or concession so made shall be inconsistent with the primary purpose for which the lands were reserved or withdrawn.
Pt. 175

# PART 175—ELECTRIC POWER UTILITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
175.100
What terms should I know for this part?
175.105
What is the purpose of this part?
175.110
Does this part apply to me?
175.115
How does BIA administer its electric power utilities?
175.120
What are Operations Manuals?
175.125
How do I request and receive service?
175.130
What information must I provide when I request service?
175.135
Why is BIA collecting this information?
175.140
What is BIA's authority to collect my taxpayer identification number?
175.145
Can I appeal a BIA decision?

# Subpart B—Service Fees, Electric Power Rates, and Revenues
175.200
Why does BIA collect revenue from you and the other customers it serves, and how is that revenue used?
175.205
When are BIA rates and fees reviewed?
175.210
What is BIA's procedure for adjusting service fees?
175.215
What is BIA's procedure for adjusting electric power rates?
175.220
How long do rate and fee adjustments stay in effect?
175.225
What is the Federal Register, and where can I get it?
175.230
Why are changes to purchased power costs not included in the procedure for adjusting electric power rates?
175.235
How does BIA include changes in purchased power costs to our electric power rates?

# Subpart C—Billing, Payments, and Collections
175.300
How does BIA calculate my electric power bill?
175.305
When is my bill due?
175.310
How do I pay my bill?
175.315
What will happen if I do not pay my bill?
175.320
What will happen if my service is disconnected and my account remains delinquent?

# Subpart D—System Extensions and Upgrades, Rights-of-Way, and Paperwork Reduction Act
175.400
Will the utility extend or upgrade its electric system to serve new or increased loads?
175.500
How does BIA manage rights-of-way?
175.600
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 13; 25 U.S.C. 385c; 43 Stat. 475-76; 45 Stat. 210-13; 49 Stat. 1039-40; 49 Stat. 1822-23; 54 Stat. 422; 62 Stat. 269-73; 65 Stat. 254; 99 Stat. 319-20.

# Source:
83 FR 61119, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 175.100
What terms I should know for this part?
Agreement
means the executed written form between you and the utility providing your service, except for service provided under a Special Agreement.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior or the BIA's authorized representative.
Bill
means our written statement notifying you of the charges and/or fees you owe the United States for the administration, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, and/or construction of the electric power utility servicing you.
CFR
means Code of Federal Regulations.
Customer
means any person or entity to whom we provide service.
Customer service
is the assistance or service provided to customers, except for the actual delivery of electric power or energy. Customer service may include: Line extension, system upgrade, meter testing, connections or disconnection, special meter reading,
or other assistance or service as provided in the Operations Manual.
Day(s)
means calendar day(s).
Delinquent
means an account that has not been paid and settled by the due date.
Due date
means the date by which you must pay your bill. The due date is printed on your bill.
Electric energy
(see
Electric power
).
Electric power
means the energy we deliver to meet customers' electrical needs.
Electric power rate
means the charges we establish for delivery of energy to our customers, which includes administration costs and operation and maintenance costs in addition to the cost of purchased power.
Electric power utility
means all structures, equipment, components, and human resources necessary for the delivery of electric service.
Electric service
means the delivery of electric power by our utility to our customers.
Energy
means electric power.
Fee
(see
Service fee
).
I, me, my, you,
and
your
means all interested parties, especially persons or entities to which we provide service and receive use of our electric power service.
Must
means an imperative or mandatory act or requirement.
Operations Manual
means the written policies, practices, procedures and requirements of the utility providing your service. The Operations Manual supplements this Part and includes our responsibilities to our customers and our customers' responsibilities to the utility.
Past due bill
means a bill that has not been paid by the due date.
Power
(see
Energy
).
Public notice
is the notice provided by publishing information consistent with the utility's Operations Manual.
Purchased power
means the power we must purchase from power marketing providers for resale to our customers to meet changing power demands. Each of our utilities establishes its own power purchasing agreement based on its power demands and firm power availability.
Rate
(see
Electric power rate
).
Reserve Funds
means funds held in reserve for maintenance, repairs, or unexpected expenses.
Revenue
means the monies we collect from our customers through service fees and electric power rates.
Service
(see
Electric service
).
Service fee
means our charge for providing or performing a specific administrative or customer service.
Special Agreement
means a written agreement between you and us for special conditions or circumstances including unmetered services.
Taxpayer identification number
means either your Social Security Number or your Employer Identification Number.
Utility(ies)
see (
Electric power utility
).
Utility office(s)
means our facility used for conducting business with our customers and the general public.
We, us,
and
our
means the United States Government, the Secretary of the Interior, the BIA, and all who are authorized to represent us in matters covered under this Part.
§ 175.105
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to establish the regulations for administering BIA electric power utilities.
§ 175.110
Does this part apply to me?
This part applies to you if we provide you service or if you request service from us.
§ 175.115
How does BIA administer its electric power utilities?
We promote efficient administration, operation, maintenance, and construction of our utilities by following and enforcing:
(a) Applicable statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, Indian Affairs manuals, Operations Manuals;
(b) Applicable written policies, procedures, directives, safety codes; and
(c) Utility industry standards.
§ 175.120
What are Operations Manuals?
(a) We maintain an Operations Manual for each of our utilities. Each utility's Operations Manual is available at the utility.
(b) The Operations Manual sets forth the requirements for the administration, management, policies, and responsibilities of that utility and its customers.
(c) We update our Operations Manual for each utility to reflect changing requirements to administer, operate, or maintain that utility.
(d) When we determine it necessary to revise an Operations Manual, we will:
(1) Provide public notice of the proposed revision;
(2) State the effective date of the proposed revision;
(3) State how and when to submit your comments on our proposed revision;
(4) Provide 30 days from the date of the notice to submit your comments; and
(5) Consider your comments and provide notice of our final decision.
§ 175.125
How do I request and receive service?
(a) If you need electrical service in an area where we provide service, you must contact our utility in that service area.
(b) To receive service, you must enter into an Agreement with that utility after it has determined that you have met its requirements.
§ 175.130
What information must I provide when I request service?
At a minimum, you must provide the utility with the following information when you request service:
(a) Your full legal name or the legal name of the entity needing service;
(b) Your taxpayer identification number;
(c) Your billing address;
(d) Your service address; and
(e) Any additional information required by the utility.
§ 175.135
Why is BIA collecting this information?
We are collecting this information so we can:
(a) Provide you with service;
(b) Bill you for the service we provide; and
(c) Account for monies you pay us, including any deposits as outlined in the Operations Manual.
§ 175.140
What is BIA's authority to collect my tax payer identification number?
We are required to collect your taxpayer identification number under the authority of, and as prescribed in, the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-364).
§ 175.145
Can I appeal a BIA decision?
(a) You may appeal a decision in accordance with the procedures set out in 25 CFR part 2, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
(b) If the appeal involves the discontinuation of service, the utility is not required to resume the service during the appeal process unless the customer meets the utility's requirements.
(c) If you appeal your bill, you must pay your bill in accordance with this part to continue to receive service from us.
(1) If the appeal involves the amount of your bill, the bill will be considered paid under protest until the final decision has been rendered on appeal.
(2) If you appeal your bill but do not pay the bill in full, you may not continue to receive service from us. If the final decision rendered in the appeal requires payment of the bill, the bill will be handled as a delinquent account and the amount of the bill may be subject to interest, penalties, and administrative costs pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9.
(3) If the appeal involves an electric power rate, the rate will be applied and remain in effect subject to the final decision on the appeal.

# Subpart B—Service Fees, Electric Power Rates, and Revenues
§ 175.200
Why does BIA collect revenue from you and the other customers it serves, and how is that revenue used?
(a) The revenue we collect from you and the other customers is authorized by 25 U.S.C. 385c (60 Stat. 895, as amended by 65 Stat. 254).
(b) The revenue we collect may be used to:
(1) Pay for operation and maintenance of the utility;
(2) Maintain Reserve Funds to:
(i) Make repairs and replacements to the utility;
(ii) Defray emergency expenses;
(iii) Ensure the continuous operation of the power system; and
(iv) Pay other allowable expenses and obligations to the extent required or permitted by law.
§ 175.205
When are BIA rates and fees reviewed?
We review our rates and fees at least annually to:
(a) Determine if our financial requirements are being met to ensure the reliable operation of the utility serving you; and
(b) Determine if revenues are sufficient to meet the statutory requirements.
§ 175.210
What is BIA's procedure for adjusting service fees?
If, based on our annual review, we determine our service fees need to be adjusted:
(a) We will notify you at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the adjustment; and
(b) We will publish a schedule of the adjusted service fees in a local newspaper(s) and post them in the local utility office serving you.
§ 175.215
What is BIA's procedure for adjusting electric power rates?
Except for purchased power costs, if we determine electric power rates need to be adjusted, we will:
(a) Hold public meetings and notify you of their respective time, date, and location by newspaper notice and a notice posted in the utility office serving you;
(b) Provide you notice at least 15 days prior to the meeting;
(c) Provide you a description of the proposed rate adjustment;
(d) Provide you information on how, where, and when to submit comments on our proposed rate adjustment;
(e) Make a final determination on the proposed rate adjustment after all comments have been received, reviewed, and evaluated; and
(f) Publish the proposed rate adjustment and the final rate in the
Federal Register
if we determine the rate adjustment is necessary.
§ 175.220
How long do rate and fee adjustments stay in effect?
These adjustments remain in effect until we conduct a review and determine adjustments are necessary.
§ 175.225
What is the Federal Register, and where can I get it?
The
Federal Register
is the official daily publication for rules, proposed rules, and notices of official actions by Federal agencies and organizations, as well as Executive Orders and other Presidential Documents and is produced by the Government Printing Office (GPO). You can get
Federal Register
publications by:
(a) Visiting
www.federalregister.gov
or
www.gpo.gov/fdsys;
(b) Writing to the GPO at Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954; or
(c) Calling the GPO at (202) 512-1800.
§ 175.230
Why are changes to purchased power costs not included in the procedure for adjusting electric power rates?
Changes to purchased power costs are not included in the procedure for adjusting electric power rates because unforeseen increases in the cost of purchased power are:
(a) Not under our control;
(b) Determined by current market rates; and
(c) Subject to market fluctuations that can occur at an undetermined time and frequency.
§ 175.235
How does BIA include changes in purchased power costs in electric power rates?
When our cost of purchased power changes:
(a) We determine the effect of the change;
(b) We adjust the purchased power component of your bill accordingly;
(c) We add the purchased power adjustment to the existing electric power rate and put it into effect immediately;
(d) The purchased power adjustment remains in effect until we determine future adjustments are necessary;
(e) We must publish in the local newspaper and post at our office a notice of the purchase power adjustment and the basis for the adjustment; and
(f) Our decision to make a purchased power adjustment must be final.

# Subpart C—Billing, Payments, and Collections
§ 175.300
How does BIA calculate my electric power bill?
(a) We calculate your electric power bill based on the:
(1) Current rate schedule for your type service; and
(2) Applicable service fees for your type service.
(b) If you have a metered service we must:
(1) Read your meter monthly;
(2) Calculate your bill based on your metered energy consumption; and
(3) Issue your bill monthly, unless otherwise provided in a Special Agreement.
(c) If we are unable to calculate your metered energy consumption, we must make a reasonable estimate based on one of the following reasons:
(1) Your meter has failed;
(2) Your meter has been tampered with; or
(3) Our utility personnel are unable to read your meter.
(d) If you have an unmetered service, we calculate your bill in accordance with your Special Agreement.
§ 175.305
When is my bill due?
The due date is provided on your bill.
§ 175.310
How do I pay my bill?
You may pay your bill by any of the following methods:
(a) In person at our utility office;
(b) Mail your payment to the address stated on your bill; or
(c) As further provided by the electric utility that serves you.
§ 175.315
What will happen if I do not pay my bill?
(a) If you do not pay your bill prior to the close of business on the due date, your bill will be past due.
(b) If your bill is past due we may:
(1) Disconnect your service; and
(2) Not reconnect your service until your bill, including any applicable fees, is paid in full.
(c) Specific regulations regarding non-payment can be found in 25 CFR 143.5(c).
§ 175.320
What will happen if my service is disconnected and my account remains delinquent?
(a) If your service has been disconnected and you still have an outstanding balance, we will assess you interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9.
(b) We must forward your delinquent balance to the United States Treasury if it is not paid within 180 days after the original due date in accordance with 31 CFR 901.1.

# Subpart D—System Extensions and Upgrades, Rights-of-Way, and Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 175.400
Will the utility extend or upgrade its electric system to serve new or increased loads?
The utility may extend or upgrade its electric system to serve new or increased loads. Contact your electric power utility providing service in your area for further information on new or increased loads.
§ 175.500
How does BIA manage rights-of-way?
Contact your electric power utility providing service in your area for further information on rights-of-way.
§ 175.600
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collection of information contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0021. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.
Send comments regarding this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer—Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
Pt. 179

# PART 179—LIFE ESTATES AND FUTURE INTERESTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
179.1
What is the purpose of this part?
179.2
What definitions do I need to know?
179.3
What law applies to life estates?
179.4
When does a life estate terminate?
179.5
What documents will the BIA use to record termination of a life estate?

# Subpart B—Life Estates Not Created Under AIPRA
179.101
How does the Secretary distribute principal and income to the holder of a life estate?
179.102
How does the Secretary calculate the value of a remainder and a life estate?

# Subpart C—Life Estates Created Under AIPRA
179.201
How does the Secretary distribute principal and income to the holder of a life estate without regard to waste?
179.202
Can the holder of a life tenancy without regard to waste deplete the resources?

# Authority:
86 Stat. 530; 86 Stat. 744; 94 Stat. 537; 96 Stat. 2515; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 372, 373, 487, 607, and 2201
et seq.

# Source:
73 FR 67286, Nov. 13, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 179.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part contains the authorities, policies, and procedures governing the administration of life estates and future interests in trust and restricted property by the Secretary of Interior. This part does not apply to any use rights assigned to tribal members by tribes in the exercise of their jurisdiction over tribal lands.
(a) Subpart A contains general provisions.
(b) Subpart B describes life estates not created under the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004 (AIPRA), as described in § 179.3(b).
(c) Subpart C describes life estates created under AIPRA, as described in § 179.3(a).
§ 179.2
What definitions do I need to know?
Agency
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) agency office, or any other designated office in BIA, having jurisdiction over trust or restricted property. This term also means any office of a tribe that has entered into a contract or compact to fulfill applicable BIA functions.
AIPRA
means the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004, Pub. L. 108-374, as codified at 25 U.S.C. 2201
et seq.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of Interior.
Contract bonus
means cash consideration paid or agreed to be paid as incentive for execution of a contract.
Income
means the rents and profits of real property and the interest on invested principal.
Life estate
means an interest in property held for only the duration of a designated person's life. A life estate may be created by a conveyance document or by operation of law.
Life estate without regard to waste
means that the holder of the life estate interest in land is entitled to the receipt of all income, including bonuses and royalties, from such land to the exclusion of the remaindermen.
Principal
means the corpus and capital of an estate, including any payment received for the sale or diminishment of the corpus, as opposed to the income.
Rents and profits
means the income or profit arising from the ownership or possession of property.
Restricted property
means real property, the title to which is held by an Indian but which cannot be alienated or encumbered without the Secretary's consent. For the purpose of probate proceedings, restricted property is treated as if it were trust property.
Except as the law may provide otherwise, the term “restricted property” as used in this part does not include the restricted lands of the Five Civilized
Tribes of Oklahoma or the Osage Nation.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative.
Trust property
means real property, or an interest therein, the title to which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an individual Indian or tribe.
§ 179.3
What law applies to life estates?
(a) AIPRA applies to life estates created by operation of law under AIPRA for an individual who died on or after June 20, 2006, owning trust or restricted property.
(b) In the absence of Federal law or federally approved tribal law to the contrary, State law applies to all other life estates.
§ 179.4
When does a life estate terminate?
A life estate terminates upon relinquishment or upon the death of the measuring life.
§ 179.5
What documents will BIA use to record termination of a life estate?
The Agency will file a copy of the relinquishment of the interest or death certificate with the BIA Land Title and Records Office for recording upon receipt of one of the following:
(a) The life estate holder's relinquishment of an interest in trust or restricted property; or
(b) Notice of death of a person who is the measuring life for the life estate in trust or restricted property.

# Subpart B—Life Estates Not Created Under AIPRA
§ 179.101
How does the Secretary distribute principal and income to the holder of a life estate?
(a) This section applies to the following cases:
(1) Where the document creating the life estate does not specify a distribution of proceeds;
(2) Where the vested holders of remainder interests and the life tenant have not entered into a written agreement approved by the Secretary providing for the distribution of proceeds; or
(3) Where, by the document or agreement or by the application of State law, the open mine doctrine does not apply.
(b) In all cases listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary must do the following:
(1) Distribute all rents and profits, as income, to the life tenant;
(2) Distribute any contract bonus one-half each to the life tenant and the remainderman;
(3) In the case of mineral contracts:
(i) Invest the principal, with interest income to be paid to the life tenant during the life estate, except in those instances where the administrative cost of investment is disproportionately high, in which case paragraph (b)(4) of this section applies; and
(ii) Distribute the principal to the remainderman upon termination of the life estate; and
(4) In all other instances:
(i) Distribute the principal immediately according to § 179.102; and
(ii) Invest all proceeds attributable to any contingent remainderman in an account, with disbursement to take place upon determination of the contingent remainderman.
§ 179.102
How does the Secretary calculate the value of a remainder and a life estate?
(a) If income is subject to division, the Secretary will use Actuarial Table S, Valuation of Annuities, found at 26 CFR 20.2031, to determine the value of the interests of the holders of remainder interests and the life tenant.
(b) Actuarial Table S, Valuation of Annuities, specifies the share attributable to the life estate and remainder interests, given the age of the life tenant and an established rate of return published by the Secretary in the
Federal Register.
We may periodically review and revise the percent rate of return to be used to determine the share attributable to the interests of the life tenant and the holders of remainder interests. The life tenant will receive the balance of the distribution after the shares of the holders of remainder interests have been calculated.

# Subpart C—Life Estates Created Under AIPRA
§ 179.201
How does the Secretary distribute principal and income to the holder of a life estate without regard to waste?
The Secretary must distribute all income, including bonuses and royalties, to the life estate holder to the exclusion of any holders of remainder interests.
§ 179.202
May the holder of a life estate without regard to waste deplete the resources?
Yes. The holder of a life estate without regard to waste may cause lawful depletion or benefit from the lawful depletion of the resources. However, a holder of a life estate without regard to waste may not cause or allow damage to the trust property through culpable negligence or an affirmative act of malicious destruction that causes damage to the prejudice of the holders of remainder interests.
Pt. 181

# PART 181—INDIAN HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAM
Sec.
181.1
Purpose.
181.2
Definitions.
181.3
Am I eligible to receive a program grant?
181.4
How do I obtain an application?
181.5
How are applications ranked?
181.6
How are applicants informed of the results?
181.7
Appeals.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 402; 25 U.S.C. 13.

# Source:
62 FR 55331, Oct. 24, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 181.1
Purpose.
This part will assist the BIA Indian Highway Safety Program Administrator to disperse funds DOT/NHTSA has made available. The funds assist selected tribes with their proposed Highway Safety Projects. These projects are designed to reduce traffic crashes, reduce impaired driving crashes, increase occupant protection education, provide Emergency Medical Service training, and increase police traffic services.
§ 181.2
Definitions.
Appeal
means a written request for review of an action or the inaction of an official of the BIA that is claimed to adversely affect the interested party making the request.
Applicant
means an individual or persons on whose behalf an application for assistance and/or services has been made under this part.
Application
means the process through which a request is made for assistance or services.
Grant
means a written agreement between the BIA and the governing body of an Indian tribe or Indian organization wherein the BIA provides funds to the grantee to plan, conduct, or administer specific programs, services, or activities and where the administrative and programmatic provisions are specifically delineated.
Grantee
means the tribal governing body of an Indian tribe or Board of Directors of an Indian organization responsible for grant administration.
Recipient
means an individual or persons who have been determined as eligible and are receiving financial assistance or services under this part.
§ 181.3
Am I eligible to receive a program grant?
The Indian Highway Safety Program grant is available to any federally recognized tribe. Because of the limited financial resources available for the program, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) is unable to award grants to all applicants. Furthermore, some grant recipients may only be awarded a grant to fund certain aspects of their proposed tribal projects.
§ 181.4
How do I obtain an application?
BIA mails grant application packages for a given fiscal year to all federally recognized tribes by the end of February of the preceding fiscal year. Additional application packages are available from the Program Administrator, Indian Highway Safety Program, P.O. Box 2003, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87103. Each application package contains the necessary information concerning the application process, including format, content, and filing requirements.
§ 181.5
How are applications ranked?
BIA ranks each timely filed application by assigning points based upon four factors.
(a)
Factor No. 1—Magnitude of the problem
(Up to 50 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following:
(1) Whether a highway safety problem exists.
(2) Whether the problem is significant.
(3) Whether the proposed tribal project will contribute to resolution of the identified highway safety problem.
(4) The number of traffic accidents occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years.
(5) The number of alcohol-related traffic accidents occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years.
(6) The number of reported traffic fatalities occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years.
(7) The number of reported alcohol-related traffic fatalities occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years.
(b)
Factor No. 2—Countermeasure selection
(Up to 40 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following:
(1) Whether the countermeasures selected are the most effective for the identified highway safety problem.
(2) Whether the countermeasures selected are cost effective.
(3) Whether the applicant's objectives are realistic and attainable.
(4) Whether the applicant's objectives are time framed and, if so, whether the time frames are realistic and attainable.
(c)
Factor No. 3—Tribal Leadership and Community Support
(Up to 10 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following:
(1) Whether the applicant proposes using tribal resources in the project.
(2) Whether the appropriate tribal governing body supports the proposal plan, as evidenced by a tribal resolution or otherwise.
(3) Whether the community supports the proposal plan, as evidenced by letters or otherwise.
(d)
Factor No. 4—Past Performance
(+ or −10 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following:
(1) Financial and programmatic reporting requirements.
(2) Project accomplishments.
§ 181.6
How are applicants informed of the results?
BIA will send a letter to all applicants notifying them of their selection or non-selection for participation in the Indian Highway Safety Program for the upcoming fiscal year. BIA will explain to each applicant not selected for participation the reason(s) for non-selection.
§ 181.7
Appeals.
You may appeal actions taken by BIA officials under this part by following the procedures in 25 CFR part 2.
Pt. 183

# PART 183—USE AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE DEVELOPMENT TRUST FUND AND SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE LEASE FUND

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
183.1
What is the purpose of this part?
183.2
What terms do I need to know?
183.3
Does the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Trust Fund Disposition

# Use of Principal and Income
183.4
How can the Tribe use the principal and income from the Trust Fund?

# Clearance Requirements
183.5
What documents must the Tribe submit to request money from the Trust Fund?
183.6
How long will it take to get a decision?
183.7
What would cause the Secretary to disapprove a request?

# Limitations
183.8
How can the Tribe spend funds?

# Subpart C—Lease Fund Disposition

# Use of Principal and Income
183.9
Can the Tribe request the principal of the Lease Fund?
183.10
How can the Tribe use income from the Lease Fund?

# Clearance Requirements
183.11
What documents must the Tribe submit to request money from the Lease Fund?
183.12
How long will it take to receive a decision?
183.13
What would cause the Secretary to disapprove a request?

# Limitations
183.14
What limits are there on how the Tribe can spend funds?

# Subpart D—Reports
183.15
Must the Tribe submit any reports?
183.16
What information must be included in the Tribe's annual report?

# Subpart E—Liability
183.17
If expenditures under this part lead to a claim or cause of action, who is liable?
183.18
Information collection requirements

# Authority:
Pub. L. 102-575, 106 Stat. 4740
et seq.

# Source:
66 FR 21088, Apr. 27, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 183.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part implements section 3707(e) of the San Carlos Apache Tribe Water Settlement Act (the Act), Public Law 102-575, 106 Stat. 4748, that requires regulations to administer the Trust Fund, and the Lease Fund established by the Act.
§ 183.2
What terms do I need to know?
In this part:
Administrative costs
means any cost, including indirect costs, incurred by the Tribe reasonably related to an allowed use of funds under the Settlement Act, including indirect costs.
Beneficial use
means any use to which the Tribe's water entitlement is put that is authorized by the Settlement Act, the Settlement Agreement, or by the Tribal Council under the Settlement Act, the Settlement Agreement or otherwise permitted by law.
CAP
means the Central Arizona Project, a reclamation project authorized under title III of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968 (43 U.S.C. 1521
et seq.
).
Community development project or purpose
means any business, recreational, social, health, education, environment, or general welfare project approved by the Tribal Council for the benefit of any community within the reservation.
Economic development project or purpose
means any commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business project approved by the Tribal Council for the purpose of profit to the Tribe.
Income
means interest or income earned or accrued on the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund and is available for distribution to the Tribe in accordance with the Settlement Act and this part. Beginning with calendar year 2001, any income that has been earned or has accrued on the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund and that has not been requested for distribution by the Tribe by December 31, shall become part of the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund on January 1 of the next calendar year.
Lease Fund
means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Lease Fund established in the Treasury of the United States under section 3711(d)(3)(E)(iv) of the Settlement Act.
Principal
means:
(1) The amount of funds in the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund as of January 1, 2002; and
(2) Any income thereon that is not distributed, and has been added to the principal, in accordance with the Settlement Act and this part.
Pro forma budget
means a budget, and operating statement, showing the estimated results for operating the economic development project for two years after injection of the principal or income into the operation.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority. The term “Secretary':
(1) Includes the Regional Director for the Western Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
(2) Does not include the Superintendent of the San Carlos Agency of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Settlement Act
means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Water Settlement Act of 1992, Title XXXVII of Public Law 102-575, 106 Stat. 4740, and any amendments thereto.
Settlement Agreement
means the agreement and any amendments executed and approved in accordance with the Settlement Act.
Tribe
means the San Carlos Apache Tribe, a Tribe of Apache Indians, under the Apache Treaty, July 1, 1852, 10 Stat. 970, organized under section 16 of the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 U.S.C. 476), and duly recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
Trust Fund
means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Development Trust Fund established in the Treasury of the United States under section 3707(b) of the Settlement Act.
We
and
us
mean the Secretary of the Interior as defined in this section.
§ 183.3
Does the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 apply to this part?
Yes. We will manage and make distributions from the Trust Fund in accordance with the American Indian Trust Funds Management Act of 1994 (Management Act), except where the Management Act conflicts with the Settlement Act or this part. If there is a conflict, we will follow the provisions of the Settlement Act or this part.

# Subpart B—Trust Fund Disposition

# Use of Principal and Income
§ 183.4
How can the Tribe use the principal and income from the Trust Fund?
The Tribe may use the principal and income from the Trust Fund in the following ways:
(a) To put to beneficial use the water entitlement provided to the Tribe in the Settlement Act;
(b) To defray the cost to the Tribe of CAP operation, maintenance, and replacement charges;
(c) For economic development purposes; provided, however, that principal may only be used for long-term economic development projects and income may be used for other economic and community development purposes; and
(d) For Administrative Costs reasonably related to the above uses.

# Clearance Requirements
§ 183.5
What documents must the Tribe submit to request money from the Trust Fund?
To request a distribution of principal or income from the Trust Fund, the Tribe must submit to us all of the following documents.
(a) A certified copy of a duly enacted resolution of the Tribal Council requesting a distribution from the Trust Fund;
(b) A written budget and supporting documentation, approved by the Tribal Council, showing precisely how the tribe will spend the money, including what amounts should come from principal and what amounts should come from income;
(c) A pro forma budget for each identified economic development project, and a program budget for each identified community development project; and
(d) A certification stating that the Tribe will use the funds in accordance with budgets submitted under this section.
§ 183.6
How long will it take to get a decision?
Within 30 days of receiving the information required by § 183.5 we will approve your request if it complies with the Settlement Act and this part. If we disapprove your request we will do so in writing and will provide you with the reasons for disapproval.
§ 183.7
What would cause the Secretary to disapprove a request?
We will only disapprove a request for the distribution of principal or income from the Trust Fund if the request does any of the following:
(a) Fails to provide the documents identified in § 183.5;
(b) Fails to provide reports required under §§ 183.15 and 183.16; or
(c) Includes a use requested or written budget that does not comply with a
specific provision of the Settlement Act, or this part.

# Limitations
§ 183.8
How can the Tribe spend funds?
(a) The Tribe must spend principal or income distributed from the Trust Fund only in accordance with a written budget submitted under § 183.5.
(b) The Tribe must not spend the principal or income from the Trust Fund to make per capita payments to members of the Tribe.

# Subpart C—Lease Fund Disposition

# Use of Principal and Income
§ 183.9
Can the Tribe request the principal of the Lease Fund?
No. We cannot distribute the principal from the Lease Fund to the Tribe.
§ 183.10
How can the Tribe use income from the Lease Fund?
The Tribe may use income from the Lease Fund for the following purposes:
(a) For economic development purposes;
(b) For community development purposes; and
(c) For administrative costs reasonably related to the above.

# Clearance Requirements
§ 183.11
What documents must the Tribe submit to request money from the Lease Fund?
To request a distribution of income from the Lease Fund, the Tribe must submit to us all of the following documents:
(a) A certified copy of a duly enacted resolution of the Tribal Council requesting a distribution from the Lease Fund;
(b) A pro forma budget for each identified economic development project and a program budget for each identified community development project, approved by the Tribal Council, showing precisely how the Tribe will spend the money;
(c) Supporting documentation for the budgets required by paragraph (b) of this section, and
(d) A certification stating that the Tribe will use the funds in accordance with budgets submitted under this section.
§ 183.12
How long will it take to receive a decision?
Within 30 days of receiving the information required by § 183.11 we will approve your request if it complies with the Settlement Act and this part. If we disapprove your request we will do so in writing and will provide you with the reasons for disapproval.
§ 183.13
What would cause the Secretary to disapprove a request?
We will only disapprove a request for distribution of income from the Lease Fund if the request does any of the following:
(a) Fails to provide the documents identified in § 183.5;
(b) Fails to provide reports required under §§ 183.15 and 183.16; or
(c) Includes a use requested or written budget that does not comply with a specific provision of the Settlement Act or this part.

# Limitations
§ 183.14
What limits are there on how the Tribe can spend funds?
(a) The Tribe must spend income distributed from the Lease Fund only in accordance with a written budget submitted under § 183.5.
(b) The Tribe must not spend the income from the Lease Fund to make per capita payments to members of the Tribe.

# Subpart D—Reports
§ 183.15
Must the Tribe submit any reports?
Yes. The Tribe must submit the following reports after receiving funds under this part:
(a) An Annual Report, that must be submitted no later than December 31 of each year; and
(b) A Financial Audit, that must be submitted no later than March 1 of each year.
§ 183.16
What information must be included in the Tribe's annual report?
The Tribe's annual report must contain the following information:
(a) An accounting of the expenditures of funds distributed to the Tribe from the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund for the preceding 12 months;
(b) A description, in detail, of how the Tribe has used the funds distributed from the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund consistently with the requirements in the Settlement Act, this part, and the budget approved by the Tribal Council and the Secretary; and
(c) Sufficient documentation for us to determine that the Tribe has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart E—Liability
§ 183.17
If expenditures under this part lead to a claim or cause of action, who is liable?
The Tribe may be liable. The United States must not be liable for any claim or cause of action arising from the Tribe's use or expenditure of monies distributed from the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund.
§ 183.18
Information collection requirements
The information collection requirements contained in this part do not meet the requirements of “ten or more persons” annually; therefore, the Office of Management and Budget does not need to clear the collection. You may direct comments concerning this information collection to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Control Officer, 1849 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20240.

# SUBCHAPTER I—ENERGY AND MINERALS
Pt. 200

# PART 200—TERMS AND CONDITIONS: COAL LEASES
Sec.
200.1-200.10
[Reserved]
200.11
Incorporation of coal lease terms and conditions.
200.12
Contract term incorporation.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 95-87 (30 U.S.C. 1201
et seq.
), as amended.

# Source:
54 FR 22188, May 22, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 200.1-200.10
[Reserved]
§ 200.11
Incorporation of coal lease terms and conditions.
(a) All leases of coal on Indian lands, as defined in § 216.101 of this chapter, issued by the Secretary, will include at the time of issuance, renewal, renegotiation, or readjustment, as applicable, the following provision:
The Lessee shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, and all regulations promulgated thereunder, including those codified at 30 CFR part 750.
(b) With respect to leases of coal on Indian lands issued by the Secretary after August 3, 1977, the Secretary shall, at the time of issuance, renewal, renegotiation, or readjustment, as applicable, include and enforce in such leases, terms and conditions related to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, as requested by the lessor Indian tribe in writing.
§ 200.12
Contract term incorporation.
The requirements of 30 CFR part 750 shall be incorporated in all existing and new contracts entered into for coal mining on Indian lands.
[59 FR 43419, Aug. 23, 1994]
Pt. 211

# PART 211—LEASING OF TRIBAL LANDS FOR MINERAL DEVELOPMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
211.1
Purpose and scope.
211.2
Information collection.
211.3
Definitions.
211.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
211.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM).
211.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).
211.7
Environmental studies.
211.8
Government employees cannot acquire leases.
211.9
Existing permits or leases for minerals issued pursuant to 43 CFR chapter II and acquired for Indian tribes.

# Subpart B—How To Acquire Leases
211.20
Leasing procedures.
211.21
[Reserved]
211.22
Leases for subsurface storage of oil or gas.
211.23
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
211.24
Bonds.
211.25
Acreage limitation.
211.26
[Reserved]
211.27
Duration of leases.
211.28
Unitization and communitization agreements, and well spacing.
211.29
Exemption of leases and permits made by organized tribes.

# Subpart C—Rents, Royalties, Cancellations and Appeals
211.40
Manner of payments.
211.41
Rentals and production royalty on oil and gas leases.
211.42
Annual rentals and expenditures for development on leases other than oil and gas, and geothermal resources.
211.43
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
211.44
Suspension of operations.
211.45
[Reserved]
211.46
Inspection of premises, books and accounts.
211.47
Diligence, drainage and prevention of waste.
211.48
Permission to start operations.
211.49
Restrictions on operations.
211.50
[Reserved]
211.51
Surrender of leases.
211.52
Fees.
211.53
Assignments, overriding royalties, and operating agreements.
211.54
Lease or permit cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
211.55
Penalties.
211.56
Geological and geophysical permits.
211.57
Forms.
211.58
Appeals.

# Authority:
Sec. 4, Act of May 11, 1938 (52 Stat. 347); Act of August 1, 1956 (70 Stat. 744); 25 U.S.C. 396a-g; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
61 FR 35653, July 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 211.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part govern leases and permits for the development of Indian tribal oil and gas, geothermal, and solid mineral resources except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section. These regulations are applicable to lands or interests in lands the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States. These regulations are intended to ensure that Indian mineral owners desiring to have their resources developed are assured that they will be developed in a manner that maximizes their best economic interests and minimizes any adverse environmental impacts or cultural impacts resulting from such development.
(b) The regulations in this part shall be subject to amendment at any time by the Secretary of the Interior. No regulation that becomes effective after the date of approval of any lease or permit shall operate to affect the duration of the lease or permit, rate of royalty, rental, or acreage unless agreed to by all parties to the lease or permit.
(c) The regulations of the Bureau of Land Management, the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, and the Minerals Management Service that are referenced in §§ 211.4, 211.5, and 211.6 are supplemental to the regulations in this part, and apply to parties holding leases or permits for development of Indian mineral resources unless specifically stated otherwise in this part or in such other Federal regulations.
(d) Nothing in the regulations in this part is intended to prevent Indian tribes from exercising their lawful governmental authority to regulate the conduct of persons, businesses, operations or mining within their territorial jurisdiction.
(e) The regulations in this part do not apply to leasing and development governed by regulations in 25 CFR parts 213 (Members of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma), 226 (Osage), or 227 (Wind River Reservation).
§ 211.2
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require a review by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501;
et seq.
).
§ 211.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following words and phrases have the specified meaning except where otherwise indicated:
Applicant
means any person seeking a permit, lease, or an assignment from the superintendent or area director.
Approving official
means the Bureau of Indians Affairs official with delegated authority to approve a lease or permit.
Area director
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of an area office.
Authorized officer
means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in this part and in 43 CFR parts 3160, 3180, 3260, 3280, 3480 and 3590.
Cooperative agreement
means a binding arrangement between two or more parties purporting to the act of agreeing or of coming to a mutual arrangement that is accepted by all parties to a transaction (e.g., communitization and unitization).
Director's representative
means the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement director's representative authorized by law or lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR part 750.
Gas
means any fluid, either combustible or non-combustible, that is produced in a natural state from the earth and that maintains a gaseous or rarefied state at ordinary temperature and pressure conditions.
Geological and geophysical permit
means a written authorization to conduct on-site surveys to locate potential
deposits of oil and gas, geothermal or solid mineral resources on the lands.
Geothermal resources means:
(1) All products of geothermal processes, including indigenous steam, hot water and hot brines;
(2) Steam and other gases, hot water, and hot brines, resulting from water, gas or other fluids artificially introduced into geothermal formations;
(3) Heat or other associated energy found in geothermal formations; and
(4) Any by-product derived therefrom.
In the best interest of the Indian mineral owner
refers to the standards to be applied by the Secretary in considering whether to take an administrative action affecting the interests of an Indian mineral owner. In considering whether it is “in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner” to take a certain action (such as approval of a lease, permit, unitization or communitization agreement), the Secretary shall consider any relevant factor, including, but not limited to: economic considerations, such as date of lease expiration; probable financial effect on the Indian mineral owner; leasability of land concerned; need for change in the terms of the existing lease; marketability; and potential environmental, social, and cultural effects.
Indian lands
means any lands owned by any individual Indian or Alaska Native, Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other tribal group which owns land or interests in the land, the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian mineral owner
means an Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo community, rancheria, colony, or other tribal group which owns mineral interests in oil and gas, geothermal or solid mineral resources, title to which is held in trust by the United States, or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian surface owner
means any individual Indian or Indian tribe whose surface estate is held in trust by the United States, or is subject to restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Lease
means any contract approved by the United States under the Act of May 11, 1938 (52 Stat. 347) (25 U.S.C. 396a-396g), as amended, that authorizes exploration for, extraction of, or removal of any minerals.
Lessee
means a natural person, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other entity that has entered into a lease with an Indian mineral owner, or who has been assigned an obligation to make royalty or other payments required by the lease.
Lessor
means an Indian mineral owner who is a party to a lease.
Minerals
includes both metalliferous and non-metalliferous minerals; all hydrocarbons, including oil and gas, coal and lignite of all ranks; geothermal resources; and includes but is not limited to, sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay, silt, or any other energy or non-energy mineral.
Minerals Management Service official
means any employee of the Minerals Management Service (MMS) authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C.
Mining
means the science, technique, and business of mineral development including, but not limited to: opencast work, underground work, and in-situ leaching directed to severance and treatment of minerals; Provided, when sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay or silt is the subject mineral, an enterprise is considered “mining” only if the extraction of such a mineral exceeds 5,000 cubic yards in any given year.
Oil
means all nongaseous hydrocarbon substances other than those substances leasable as coal, oil shale, or gilsonite (including all vein-type solid hydrocarbons). Oil includes liquefiable hydrocarbon substances such as drip gasoline and other natural condensates recovered or recoverable in a liquid state from produced gas without resorting to a manufacturing process.
Permit
means any contract issued by the superintendent and/or area director to conduct exploration on; or removal of less than 5,000 cubic yards per year of common varieties of minerals from Indian lands.
Permittee
means a person holding or required by this part to hold a permit to conduct exploration operations on; or remove less than 5,000 cubic yards per year of common varieties of minerals from Indian lands.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.
Solid minerals
means all minerals excluding oil, gas and geothermal resources.
Superintendent
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of the agency office having jurisdiction over the minerals subject to leasing under this part.
§ 211.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
The functions of the Bureau of Land Management are found in 43 CFR part 3160—Onshore Oil and Gas Operations, 43 CFR part 3180—Onshore Oil and Gas Unit Agreements: Unproven Area, 43 CFR part 3260—Geothermal Resources Operations, 43 CFR part 3280—Geothermal Resources Unit Agreements: Unproven Areas, 43 CFR part 3480—Coal Exploration and Mining Operations, and 43 CFR part 3590—Solid Minerals (other than coal) Exploration and Mining Operations; and currently include, but are not limited to, resource evaluation, approval of drilling permits, mining and reclamation, production plans, mineral appraisals, inspection and enforcement, and production verification. These regulations, apply to leases and permits approved under this part.
§ 211.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM).
The OSM is the regulatory authority for surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Indian lands pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201
et seq.
). The relevant regulations for surface coal mining and reclamation operations are found in 30 CFR part 750. Those regulations apply to mining and reclamation on leases approved under this part.
§ 211.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).
The functions of the MMS for reporting, accounting, and auditing are found in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C, which, apply to leases approved under this part. To the extent the parties to a lease or permit are able to provide reasonable provisions satisfactorily addressing the functions governed by MMS regulations, the Secretary may approve alternate provisions in a lease or permit.
§ 211.7
Environmental studies.
(a) The Secretary shall ensure that all environmental studies are prepared as required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and the regulations promulgated by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), found in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.
(b) The Secretary shall ensure that all necessary surveys are performed and clearances obtained in accordance with 36 CFR parts 60, 63, and 800 and with the requirements of the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 469
et seq.
), the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
), The American Indian Religious Freedom Act (42 U.S.C. 1996), and Executive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment (3 CFR, 1971 through 1975 Comp., p. 559). If these surveys indicate that a mineral development will have an adverse effect on a property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, the Secretary shall:
(1) Seek the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800;
(2) Ensure that the property is avoided, that the adverse effect is mitigated, or;
(3) Ensure that appropriate excavations or other related research is conducted and ensure that complete data describing the historic property is preserved.
§ 211.8
Government employees cannot acquire leases.
U.S. Government employees are prevented from acquiring leases or interests in leases by the provisions of 25 CFR part 140 and 43 CFR part 20 pertaining to conflicts of interest and ownership of an interest in trust land.
§ 211.9
Existing permits or leases for minerals issued pursuant to 43 CFR chapter II and acquired for Indian tribes.
(a) Title to the minerals underlying certain Federal lands, which were previously subject to general leasing and mining laws, is now held in trust by the United States for Indian tribes. Existing mineral prospecting permits, exploration and mining leases on these lands, issued prior to these lands being placed in trust status or becoming Indian lands, pursuant to 43 CFR chapter II (and its predecessor regulations), and all actions on the permits and leases shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the regulations set forth in 30 CFR chapters II and VII and 43 CFR chapter II, as applicable, provided, that all payment or reports required by a non-producing lease or permit, issued pursuant to 43 CFR chapter II, shall be made to the superintendent having administrative jurisdiction over the land involved, instead of the officer of the Bureau of Land Management designated in 43 CFR unless specifically stated otherwise in the statutes authorizing the United States to hold the land in trust for an Indian tribe. Producing lease payments and reports will be submitted to the Minerals Management Service in accordance with 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C.
(b) Administrative actions regarding an existing lease or permit under this section, may be appealed pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.

# Subpart B—How To Acquire Leases
§ 211.20
Leasing procedures.
(a) Indian mineral owners may, with the approval of the superintendent or area director, lease their land for mining purposes. No oil and gas lease shall be approved unless it has first been offered for bidding at an advertised lease sale in accordance with this section. Leases for minerals other than oil and gas shall be advertised for bids as prescribed in this section unless the Secretary grants the Indian mineral owners written permission to negotiate for lease. Application for leases shall be made to the superintendent having jurisdiction over the lands.
(b) Indian mineral owners may request that the Secretary prepare and advertise or negotiate (if the requirements of this section have been met) mineral leases on their behalf. If requested by an applicant interested in acquiring rights to Indian-owned minerals, the Secretary shall promptly notify the Indian mineral owner, and advise the owner in writing of the alternatives available, including the right to decline to lease. If the Indian mineral owner decides to have the leases advertised, the Secretary shall consult with the Indian mineral owner concerning the appropriate royalty rate and rental. The Secretary may then undertake the responsibility to advertise and lease in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) Leases shall be advertised to receive optimum competition for bonus consideration, under sealed bid, oral auction, or a combination of both. Notice of such advertisement shall be published in at least one local newspaper and in one trade publication at least thirty (30) days in advance of sale. If applicable, such notice must identify the reservation within which the tracts to be leased are found. No specific description of the tracts to be leased need be published. Specific description of such tracts shall be available at the office of the superintendent and/or area director upon request. The complete text of the advertisement, including a specific description, shall be mailed to each person listed on the appropriate agency or area mailing list. Individuals and companies interested in receiving advertisements of lease sales should send their mailing information to the appropriate superintendent or area director for future reference.
(2) The advertisement shall offer the tracts to the responsible bidder offering the highest bonus. The Secretary,
after consultation with the Indian mineral owner, shall establish the rental and royalty rates which shall be stated in the advertisement and shall not be subject to negotiation. The advertisement shall provide that the Secretary reserves the right to reject any or all bids, and that acceptance of the lease bid by the Indian mineral owner is required.
(3) Each sealed bid must be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check or postal money order, or any combination thereof, payable to the payee designated in the advertisement, in an amount not less than 25 percent of the bonus bid, which shall be returned if that bid is not accepted.
(4) A successful oral auction bidder will be allowed five (5) working days to remit the required 25 percent deposit of the bonus bid.
(5) A successful bidder shall, within thirty (30) days after notification of the bid award, remit to the Secretary the balance of the bonus, the first year's rental, a $75 filing fee, its prorated share of the advertising costs as determined by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and file with the Secretary all required bonds. The successful bidder shall also file the lease in completed form at that time. However, for good reasons, the Secretary may grant extensions of time in thirty (30) day increments for filing of the lease and all required bonds, provided that additional extension requests are submitted and approved prior to the expiration of the original thirty (30) days or the previously granted extension. Failure on the part of the bidder to take all reasonable actions necessary to comply with the foregoing shall result in forfeiture of the required payment of 25 percent of any bonus bid for the use and benefit of the Indian mineral owner.
(6) If no satisfactory bid is received, or if the accepted bidder fails to complete all requirements necessary for the approval of the lease, or if the Secretary determines that it is not in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner to accept any of the bids the Secretary may re-advertise the lease for sale, or, subject to the consent of the Indian mineral owner, the lease may be let through private negotiations.
(c) The Secretary shall advise the Indian mineral owner of the results of the bidding, and shall not approve the lease until the consent of the Indian mineral owner has been obtained.
(d) The Indian mineral owner may also submit negotiated leases to the Secretary for review and approval.
§ 211.21
[Reserved]
§ 211.22
Leases for subsurface storage of oil or gas.
(a) The Secretary, with the consent of the Indian mineral owners, may approve storage leases, or modifications, amendments, or extensions of existing leases, on Indian lands to provide for the subsurface storage of oil or gas, irrespective of the lands from which production is initially obtained. The storage lease, or modification, amendment, or extension to an existing lease, shall provide for the payment of such storage fee or rental on such oil or gas as may be determined adequate in each case, or, in lieu thereof, for a royalty other than that prescribed in the oil and gas lease when such stored oil and gas is produced in conjunction with oil or gas not previously produced.
(b) The Secretary, with consent of the Indian mineral owners, may approve a provision in an oil and gas lease under which storage of oil and gas is authorized, for continuance of the lease at least for the period of such storage use and so long thereafter as oil or gas not previously produced is produced in paying quantities.
(c) Applications for subsurface storage of oil or gas shall be filed in triplicate with the authorized officer and shall disclose the ownership of the lands involved, the parties in interest, the storage fee, rental, or royalty offered to be paid for such storage, and all essential information showing the necessity for such project. Enough copies of the final agreement signed by the Indian mineral owners and other parties in interest shall be submitted for the approval of the Secretary to permit retention of five copies by the Department after approval.
§ 211.23
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
(a) The signing in a representative capacity and delivery of bids, geological and geophysical permits, mineral leases, or assignments, bonds, or other instruments required by the regulations in this part constitutes certification that the individual signing (except a surety agent) is authorized to act in such capacity. An agent for a surety shall furnish a power of attorney.
(b) A corporate applicant proposing to acquire an interest in a permit or lease shall have on file with the superintendent or area director a statement showing:
(1) The State(s) in which the corporation is incorporated, and that the corporation is authorized to hold such interests in the State where the land described in the instrument is situated; and
(2) A notarized statement that the corporation has power to conduct all business and operations as described in the lease or permit.
(c) The Secretary may, either before or after the approval of a permit, mineral lease, assignment, or bond, call for any reasonable additional information necessary to carry out the regulations in this part, or other applicable laws and regulations.
§ 211.24
Bonds.
(a) The lessee, permittee or prospective lessee acquiring a lease, or any interest therein, by assignment shall furnish with each lease, permit or assignment a surety bond or personal bond in an amount sufficient to ensure compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the lease(s), permit(s), or assignment(s) and the statutes and regulations applicable to the lease, permit, or assignment. Surety bonds shall be issued by a qualified company approved by the Department of the Treasury (see Department of the Treasury Circular No. 570).
(b) An operator may file a $75,000 bond for all geothermal, mining, or oil and gas leases, permits, or assignments in any one State, which may also include areas on that part of an Indian reservation extending into any contiguous State. Statewide bonds are subject to approval in the discretion of the Secretary.
(c) An operator may file a $150,000 bond for full nationwide coverage to cover all geothermal or oil and gas leases, permits, or assignments without geographic or acreage limitation to which the operator is or may become a party. Nationwide bonds are subject to approval in the discretion of the Secretary.
(d) Personal bonds shall be accompanied by:
(1) Certificate of deposit issued by a financial institution, the deposits of which are federally insured, explicitly granting the Secretary full authority to demand immediate payment in case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of the lease or permit. The certificate shall explicitly indicate on its face that Secretarial approval is required prior to redemption of the certificate of deposit by any party;
(2) Cashier's check;
(3) Certified check;
(4) Negotiable Treasury securities of the United States of a value equal to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury securities shall be accompanied by a proper conveyance to the Secretary of full authority to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of a lease or permit; or
(5) Letter of credit issued by a financial institution authorized to do business in the United States and whose deposits are federally insured, and identifying the Secretary as sole payee with full authority to demand immediate payment in the case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of a lease or permit.
(i) The letter of credit shall be irrevocable during its term.
(ii) The letter of credit shall be payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs upon demand, in part or in full, upon receipt from the Secretary of a notice of attachment stating the basis thereof (e.g., default in compliance with the lease or permit provisions and conditions or failure to file a replacement in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section).
(iii) The initial expiration date of the letter of credit shall be at least one (1)
year following the date it is filed in the proper Bureau of Indian Affairs office.
(iv) The letter of credit shall contain a provision for automatic renewal for periods of not less than one (1) year in the absence of notice to the proper Bureau of Indian Affairs office at least ninety (90) days prior to the originally stated or any extended expiration date.
(v) A letter of credit used as security for any lease or permit upon which operations have taken place and final approval for abandonment has not been given, or as security for a statewide or nationwide bond, shall be forfeited and shall be collected by the Secretary if not replaced by other suitable bond or letter of credit at least thirty (30) days before its expiration date.
(e) The required amount of bonds may be increased in any particular case at the discretion of the Secretary.
§ 211.25
Acreage limitation.
A lessee may acquire more than one lease but no single lease shall be granted for mineral leasing purposes on Indian tribal or restricted lands in excess of the following acreage except where the rule of approximation applies:
(a) Leases for oil and gas and all other minerals except coal are to be contained within one United States Governmental survey section of land and shall be described by legal subdivisions including lots or tract equivalents not to exceed 640 acres; in instances of irregular surveys, including lands not surveyed under the United States Governmental survey, lands shall be considered in multiples of 40 acres or the nearest aliquot equivalent thereof;
(b) Leases for coal shall ordinarily be limited to 2,560 acres in a reasonably compact form and shall be described by legal subdivisions including lots or tract equivalents. In instances of irregular surveys, including lands not surveyed under the United States Governmental survey, lands shall be considered in multiples of 40 acres or the nearest aliquot equivalent thereof. The Secretary may, upon application and with the consent of the Indian mineral owner, approve the issuance of a single lease for more than 2,560 acres, in a reasonably compact form, upon a finding that the issuance is in the best interest of the lessor.
§ 211.26
[Reserved]
§ 211.27
Duration of leases.
(a) All leases shall be for a term not to exceed a primary term of lease duration of ten (10) years and, absent specific lease provisions to the contrary, shall continue as long thereafter as the minerals specified in the lease are produced in paying quantities. Absent specific lease provisions to the contrary, all provisions in leases governing their duration shall be measured from the date of approval by the Secretary.
(b) An oil and gas or geothermal resource lease which stipulates that it shall continue in full force and effect beyond the expiration of the primary term of lease duration (“commencement clause”) if drilling operations have commenced during the primary term, shall be valid and shall hold the lease beyond the primary term of lease duration if the lessee or the lessee's designee has commenced actual drilling by midnight of the last day of the primary term of the lease with a drilling rig designed to reach the total proposed depth, and drilling is continued with reasonable diligence until the well is completed to production or abandoned. However, in no case shall such drilling hold the lease longer than 120 days past the primary term of lease duration without actual production of oil, gas, or geothermal resources.
Provided,
that this extension does not allow a lease to continue past the 10-year statutory limitation. Drilling which meets the requirements of this section and occurs within a unit or communitization agreement to which the lease is committed shall be considered as if it occurs on the leasehold itself. If there is a conflict between the commencement clause and the habendum clause of a lease, the commencement clause will control.
(c) A solid minerals lease which stipulates that it shall continue in full force and effect beyond the expiration of the primary term of lease duration if mining operations have commenced during the primary term (commencement clause), shall be valid and hold the lease beyond the primary term of
lease duration if the lessee or the lessee's designee has by midnight of the last day of the primary term of the lease commenced actual removal of mineral materials intended for sale and upon which royalties will be paid. If there is a conflict between the commencement clause and the habendum clause of a lease, the commencement clause will control.
§ 211.28
Unitization and communitization agreements, and well spacing.
(a) For the purpose of promoting conservation and efficient utilization of minerals, the Secretary may approve a cooperative unit, drilling or other development plan on any leased area upon a determination that approval is advisable and in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner. For the purposes of this section, a cooperative unit, drilling or other development plan means an agreement for the development or operation of a specifically designated area as a single unit without regard to separate ownership of the land included in the agreement. Such cooperative agreements include, but are not limited to, unit agreements, communitization agreements and other types of agreements that allocate costs and benefits.
(b) The consent of the Indian mineral owner to such unit or cooperative agreement shall not be required unless such consent is specifically required in the lease. However, the Secretary shall consult with the Indian mineral owner prior to making a determination concerning a cooperative agreement or well spacing plan.
(c) Requests for approval of cooperative agreements which comply with the requirements of all applicable rules and regulations shall be filed with the superintendent or area director.
(d) All Indian mineral owners of any right, title or interest in the mineral resources to be included in a cooperative agreement must be notified by the lessee at the time the agreement is submitted to the superintendent or area director. An affidavit from the lessee stating that a notice was mailed to each mineral owner of record for whom the superintendent or area director has an address will satisfy this notice requirement.
(e) A request for approval of a proposed cooperative agreement, and all documents incident to such agreement, must be filed with the superintendent or area director at least ninety (90) days prior to the first expiration date of any of the Indian leases in the area proposed to be covered by the cooperative agreement.
(f) Unless otherwise provided in the cooperative agreement, approval of the agreement commits each lease to the unit in the area covered by the agreement on the date approved by the Secretary or the date of first production, whichever is earlier, as long as the agreement is approved before the lease expiration date.
(g) Any lease committed in part to any such cooperative agreement shall be segregated into a separate lease or leases as to the lands committed and lands not committed to the agreement. Segregation shall be effective on the date the agreement is effective.
(h) Wells shall be drilled in conformity with a well spacing program approved by the authorized officer.
§ 211.29
Exemption of leases and permits made by organized tribes.
The regulations in this part may be superseded by the provisions of any tribal constitution, bylaw or charter issued pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 461-479), the Alaska Act of May 1, 1936 (49 Stat. 1250; 48 U.S.C. 362,258a), or the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of June 26, 1936 (49 Stat. 1967; 25 U.S.C., and Sup., 501-509), or by ordinance, resolution, or other action authorized under such constitution, bylaw or charter; Provided, that such tribal law may not supersede the requirements of Federal statutes applicable to Indian mineral leases. The regulations in this part, in so far as they are not so superseded, shall apply to leases and permits made by organized tribes if the validity of the lease or permit depends upon the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.

# Subpart C—Rents, Royalties, Cancellations and Appeals
§ 211.40
Manner of payments.
Unless otherwise specifically provided for in a lease, once production has been established, all payments shall be made to the MMS or such other party as may be designated, and shall be made at such time as provided in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C. Prior to production, all bonus and rental payments, shall be made to the superintendent or area director.
§ 211.41
Rentals and production royalty on oil and gas leases.
(a) A lessee shall pay, in advance, beginning with the effective date of the lease, an annual rental of $2.00 per acre or fraction of an acre or such other greater amount as prescribed in the lease. This rental shall not be credited against production royalty nor shall the rental be prorated or refunded because of surrender or cancellation.
(b) The Secretary shall not approve leases with a royalty rate less than 16-
2/3
percent of the amount or value of production produced and sold from the lease unless a lower royalty rate is agreed to by the Indian mineral owner and is found to be in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner. Such approval may only be granted by the area director if the approving official is the superintendent and by the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs if the approving official is the area director.
(c) Value of lease production for royalty purposes shall be determined in accordance with applicable lease provisions and regulations in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C. If the valuation provisions in the lease are inconsistent with the regulations in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C, the lease provisions shall govern.
(d) If the leased premises produce gas in excess of the lessee's requirements for the development and operation of said premises, then the lessor may use sufficient gas, free of charge, for any desired school or other buildings belonging to the tribe, by making his own connections to a regulator installed, connected to the well and maintained by the lessee, and the lessee shall not be required to pay royalty on gas so used. The use of such gas shall be at the lessor's risk at all times.
§ 211.42
Annual rentals and expenditures for development on leases other than oil and gas, and geothermal resources.
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, a lease for minerals other than oil, gas and geothermal resources shall provide for a yearly development expenditure of not less than $20 per acre. All such leases shall provide for a rental payment of not less than $2.00 for each acre or fraction of an acre payable on or before the first day of each lease year.
(b) Within twenty (20) days after the lease year, an itemized statement, in duplicate, of the expenditure for development under a lease for minerals other than oil and gas shall be filed with the superintendent or area director. The lessee must certify the statement under oath.
§ 211.43
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the minimum rates for leases of minerals other than oil and gas shall be as follows:
(1) For substances other than coal, the royalty rate shall be 10 percent of the value of production produced and sold from the lease at the nearest shipping point.
(2) For coal to be strip or open pit mined the royalty rate shall be 12
1/2
percent of the value of production produced and sold from the lease, and for coal removed from an underground mine, the royalty rate shall be 8 percent of the value of production produced and sold from the lease.
(3) For geothermal resources, the royalty rate shall be 10 percent of the amount or value of steam, or any other form of heat or energy derived from production of geothermal resources under the lease and sold or utilized by the lessee. In addition, the royalty rate shall be 5 percent of the value of any byproduct derived from production of geothermal resources under the lease and sold or utilized or reasonably susceptible of sale or utilization by the lessee, except that the royalty for any
mineral byproduct shall be governed by the appropriate paragraph of this section.
(b) A lower royalty rate shall be allowed if it is determined to be in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner. Approval of a lower rate may only be granted by the area director if the approving official is the superintendent or by the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, if the approving official is the area director.
§ 211.44
Suspension of operations.
(a) After the expiration of the primary term of the lease the Secretary may approve suspension of operations for remedial purposes which are necessary for continued production, to protect the resource, the environment, or for other good reasons.
Provided,
that such remedial operations are conducted in accordance with 43 CFR part 3160, subpart 3165 and under such stipulations and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary and are conducted with reasonable diligence. Any suspension shall not relieve the lessee from liability for the payment of rental and other payments as required by lease provisions.
(b) An application for permission to suspend operations or production for economic or marketing reasons on a lease capable of production after the expiration of the primary term of lease duration must be accompanied by the written consent of the Indian mineral owner, an economic analysis, and an executed amendment by the parties to the lease setting forth the provisions pertaining to the suspension of operations and production. Such application shall be treated as a negotiated change to lease provisions, and as such, shall be subject to review and approval by the Secretary.
§ 211.45
[Reserved]
§ 211.46
Inspection of premises, books and accounts.
Lessees shall allow the Indian mineral owner, the Indian mineral owner's representatives, or any authorized representative of the Secretary to enter all parts of the leased premises for the purpose of inspection and audit. Lessees shall keep a full and correct account of all operations and submit all related reports required by the lease and applicable regulations. Books and records shall be available for inspection during regular business hours.
§ 211.47
Diligence, drainage and prevention of waste.
The lessee shall:
(a) Exercise diligence in mining, drilling and operating wells on the leased lands while minerals production can be secured in paying quantities;
(b) Protect the lease from drainage (if oil and gas or geothermal resources are being drained from the lease premises by a well or wells located on lands not included in the lease, the Secretary reserves the right to impose reasonable and equitable terms and conditions to protect the interest of the Indian mineral owner of the lands, such as payment of compensatory royalty for the drainage);
(c) Carry on operations in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with approved methods and practices;
(d) Have due regard for the prevention of waste of oil or gas or other minerals, the entrance of water through wells drilled by the lessee to other strata, to the destruction or injury of the oil or gas, other mineral deposits, or fresh water aquifers, the preservation and conservation of the property for future productive operations, and the health and safety of workmen and employees;
(e) Securely plug all wells and effectively shut off all water from the oil or gas-bearing strata before abandoning them;
(f) Not construct any well pad location within 200 feet of any structures or improvements without the Indian surface owner's written consent;
(g) Carry out, at the lessee's expense, all reasonable orders and requirements of the authorized officer relative to prevention of waste;
(h) Bury all pipelines crossing tillable lands below plow depth unless other arrangements are made with the Indian surface owner; and
(i) Pay the Indian surface owner all damages, including damages to crops, buildings, and other improvements of the Indian surface owner occasioned by
the lessee's operations as determined by the superintendent.
§ 211.48
Permission to start operations.
(a) No exploration, drilling, or mining operations are permitted on any Indian lands before the Secretary has granted written approval of a mineral lease or permit pursuant to the regulations in this part.
(b) After a lease or permit is approved, written permission must be secured from the Secretary before any operations are started on the leased premises, in accordance with applicable rules and regulations in 25 CFR part 216; 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C; 30 CFR part 750 (Requirements for Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations on Indian Lands), 43 CFR parts 3160, 3260, 3480, 3590, and Orders or Notices to Lessees (NTLs) issued thereunder.
§ 211.49
Restrictions on operations.
Leases issued under the provisions of the regulations in this part shall be subject to such restrictions as to time or times for well operations and production from any leased premises as the Secretary judges may be necessary or proper for the protection of the natural resources of the leased land and in the interest of the lessor.
§ 211.50
[Reserved]
§ 211.51
Surrender of leases.
A lessee may, with the approval of the Secretary, surrender a lease or any part of it, on the following conditions:
(a) All royalties and rentals due on the date the request for surrender is received must be paid;
(b) The superintendent, after consultation with the authorized officer, must be satisfied that proper provisions have been made for the conservation and protection of the property, and that all operations on the portion of the lease surrendered have been properly reclaimed, abandoned, or conditioned, as required;
(c) If a lease has been recorded, the lessee must submit a release along with the recording information of the original lease so that, after acceptance of the release, it may be recorded;
(d) If a lessee requests to surrender an entire lease or an entire undivided portion of a lease document, the lessee must deliver to the superintendent or area director the original lease documents;
Provided,
that where the request is made by an assignee to whom no copy of the lease was delivered, the assignee must deliver to the superintendent or area director only its copy of the assignment;
(e) If the lease (or a portion thereof being surrendered) is owned in undivided interests, all lessees owning undivided interests in the lease must join in the request for surrender;
(f) No part of any advance rental shall be refunded to the lessee, nor shall any subsequent surrender or termination of a lease relieve the lessee of the obligation to pay advance rental if advance rental became due prior to the date the request for surrender was received by the superintendent or area director;
(g) If oil, gas, or geothermal resources are being drained from the leased premises by a well or wells located on lands not included in the lease, the Secretary reserves the right, prior to acceptance of the surrender, to impose reasonable and equitable terms and conditions to protect the interests of the Indian mineral owners of the lands surrendered. Such terms and conditions may include payment of compensatory royalty for any drainage; and
(h) Upon expiration or surrender of a solid mineral lease the lessee shall deliver the leased premises in a condition conforming to the approved reclamation plan. Unless otherwise provided in the lease, the machinery necessary to operate the mine is the property of the lessee. However, the machinery may not be removed from the leased premises without the written permission of the Secretary.
§ 211.52
Fees.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, each permit, lease, sublease, or other contract, or assignment, thereof shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $75.00 at the time of filing.
§ 211.53
Assignments, overriding royalties, and operating agreements.
(a) Approved leases or any interest therein may be assigned or transferred only with the approval of the Secretary. The Indian mineral owner must also consent if approval of the Indian mineral owner is required in the lease. If consent is not required, then the Secretary shall notify the Indian mineral owner of the proposed assignment. To obtain the approval of the Secretary the assignee must be qualified to hold the lease under existing rules and regulations and shall furnish a satisfactory bond conditioned for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions of the lease.
(b) No lease or interest therein or the use of such lease shall be assigned, sublet, or transferred, directly or indirectly, by working or drilling contract, or otherwise, without the consent of the Secretary.
(c) Assignments of leases, and stipulations modifying the provisions of existing leases, which stipulations are also subject to the approval of the Secretary, shall be filed with the superintendent within five (5) working days after the date of execution. Upon execution of satisfactory bonds by the assignee the Secretary may permit the release of any bonds executed by the assignor. Upon execution of satisfactory bonds the assignee accepts all the assignor's responsibilities and prior obligations and liabilities of the assignor (including but not limited to any underpaid royalties and rentals) under the lease.
(d) Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production shall not be considered as interests in the leases as such provision is used in this section. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production, or agreements designating operators are hereby authorized and the approval of the Secretary shall not be required with respect thereto, but such agreements shall be subject to the condition that nothing in such agreements shall be construed as modifying any of the obligations of the lessee, including, but not limited to, obligations imposed by requirements of the MMS for reporting, accounting, and auditing; obligations for diligent development and operation, protection against drainage and mining in trespass, compliance with oil and gas, geothermal, and mining regulations (25 CFR part 216; 43 CFR parts 3160, 3260, 3480, and 3590; and those applicable rules found in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C) and the requirements for Secretarial approval before abandonment of any oil and gas or geothermal well or mining operation. All such obligations are to remain in full force and effect, the same as if free of any such overriding royalties or payments. The existence of agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production, whether or not actually paid, shall not be considered as justification for the approval of abandonment of any oil and gas or geothermal well or mining operation. Nothing in this paragraph revokes the requirement for approval of assignments and other instruments which is required in this section, but any overriding royalties or payments out of production created by the provisions of such assignments or instruments shall be subject to the condition stated in this section. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production, or agreements designating operators shall be filed with the superintendent unless incorporated in assignments or instruments required to be filed pursuant to this section.
§ 211.54
Lease or permit cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
(a) If the Secretary determines that a permittee or lessee has failed to comply with the terms of the permit or lease; the regulations in this part; or other applicable laws or regulations; the Secretary may:
(1) Serve a notice of noncompliance specifying in what respect the permittee or lessee has failed to comply with the requirements referenced in this paragraph, and specifying what actions, if any, must be taken to correct the noncompliance; or
(2) Serve a notice of proposed cancellation of the lease or permit. The notice of proposed cancellation shall set forth the reasons why lease or permit cancellation is proposed and shall specify what actions, if any, must be taken to avoid cancellation.
(b) The notice of noncompliance or proposed cancellation shall specify in what respect the permittee or lessee has failed to comply with the requirements referenced in paragraph (a), and shall specify what actions, if any, must be taken to correct the noncompliance.
(c) The notice shall be served upon the permittee or lessee by delivery in person or by certified mail to the permittee or lessee at the permittee's or lessee's last known address. When certified mail is used, the date of service shall be deemed to be when the notice is received or five (5) working days after the date it is mailed, whichever is earlier.
(d) The lessee or permittee shall have thirty (30) days (or such longer time as specified in the notice) from the date that the notice is served to respond, in writing, to the official or the Bureau of Indian Affairs office that issued the notice.
(e) If a permittee or lessee fails to take any action that is prescribed in the notice of proposed cancellation, fails to file a timely written response to the notice, or files a written response that does not, in the discretion of the Secretary, adequately justify the permittee's or lessee's actions, then the Secretary may cancel the lease or permit, specifying the basis for the cancellation.
(f) If a permittee or lessee fails to take corrective action or to file a timely written response adequately justifying the permittee's or lessee's actions pursuant to a notice of noncompliance, the Secretary may issue an order of cessation of operations. If the permittee or lessee fails to comply with the order of cessation, or fails to timely file an appeal of the order of cessation pursuant to paragraph (h), the Secretary may issue an order of lease or permit cancellation.
(g) Cancellation of a lease or permit shall not relieve the lessee or permittee of any continuing obligations under the lease or permit.
(h) Orders of cessation or of lease or permit cancellation issued pursuant to this section may be appealed under 25 CFR part 2.
(i) This section does not limit any other remedies of the Indian mineral owner as set forth in the lease or permit.
(j) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the authority of the authorized officer or the MMS official to take any enforcement action authorized pursuant to statute or regulation.
(k) The authorized officer, MMS official, and the superintendent and/or area director should consult with one another before taking any enforcement actions.
§ 211.55
Penalties.
(a) In addition to or in lieu of cancellation under § 211.54, violations of the terms and conditions of any lease, or the regulations in this part, or failure to comply with a notice of noncompliance or a cessation order issued by the Secretary, or, in the case of solid minerals the authorized officer, may subject a lessee or permittee to a penalty of not more than $1,943 per day for each day that such a violation or noncompliance continues beyond the time limits prescribed for corrective action.
(b) A notice of a proposed penalty shall be served on the lessee or permittee either personally or by certified mail to the lessee or permittee at the lessee's or permittee's last known address. The date of service by certified mail shall be deemed to be the date when received or five (5) working days after the date mailed, whichever is earlier.
(c) The notice shall specify the nature of the violation and the proposed penalty, and shall specifically advise the lessee or permittee of the lessee's or permittee's right to either request a hearing within thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice or pay the proposed penalty. Hearings shall be held before the superintendent and/or area director whose findings shall be conclusive, unless an appeal is taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.
(d) If the lessee or permittee served with a notice of proposed penalty requests a hearing, penalties shall accrue each day the violations or noncompliance set forth in the notice continue beyond the time limits prescribed for corrective action. The Secretary may issue a written suspension of the requirement to correct the violations
pending completion of the hearings provided by this section only upon a determination, at the discretion of the Secretary, that such a suspension will not be detrimental to the lessor and upon submission and acceptance of a bond deemed adequate to indemnify the lessor from loss or damage. The amount of the bond must be sufficient to cover the cost of correcting the violations set forth in the notice or any disputed amounts plus accrued penalties and interest.
(e) Payment in full of penalties more than ten (10) days after a final decision imposing a penalty shall subject the lessee or permittee to late payment charges. Late payment charges shall be calculated on the basis of a percentage assessment rate of the amount unpaid per month for each month or fraction thereof until payment is received by the Secretary. In the absence of a specific lease provision prescribing a different rate, the interest rate on late payments and underpayments shall be a rate applicable under § 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. Interest shall be charged only on the amount of payment not received and only for the number of days the payment is late.
(f) None of the provisions of this section shall be interpreted as:
(1) Replacing or superseding the independent authority of the authorized officer, the director's representative or the MMS official to impose penalties for violations of applicable regulations pursuant to 43 CFR part 3160, and 43 CFR Groups 3400 and 3500, 30 CFR part 750, or 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C;
(2) Replacing or superseding any penalty provision in the terms and conditions of a lease or permit approved by the Secretary pursuant to this part; or
(3) Authorizing the imposition of a penalty for violations of lease or permit terms for which the authorized officer, director's representative or MMS official, have either statutory or regulatory authority to assess a penalty.
[61 FR 35653, July 8, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7652, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7347, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 211.56
Geological and geophysical permits.
Permits to conduct geological and geophysical operations on Indian lands which do not conflict with any mineral leases entered into pursuant to this part, may be approved by the Secretary with the consent of the Indian mineral owner under the following conditions:
(a) The permit must describe the area to be explored, the duration, and the consideration to be paid the Indian owner;
(b) The permit will not grant the permittee any option or preference rights to a lease or other development contract, or authorize the production of, or removal of oil and gas, geothermal resources, or other minerals, except samples for assay and experimental purposes, unless specifically so stated in the permit; and
(c) Copies of all data collected pursuant to operations conducted under the permit shall be forwarded to the Secretary and the Indian mineral owner, unless otherwise provided in the permit. Data collected under a permit may be held by the Secretary as privileged and proprietary information for the time prescribed in the permit. Where no time period is prescribed in the permit, the Secretary may release such information after six (6) years, with the consent of the Indian mineral owner.
§ 211.57
Forms.
Leases, bonds, permits, assignments, and other instruments relating to mineral leasing shall be on forms, prescribed by the Secretary, that may be obtained from the superintendent or area director. The provisions of a standard lease or permit may be changed, deleted, or added to by written agreement of all parties with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 211.58
Appeals.
Appeals from decisions of Bureau of Indian Affairs officers under this part may be taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.
Pt. 212

# PART 212—LEASING OF ALLOTTED LANDS FOR MINERAL DEVELOPMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
212.1
Purpose and scope.
212.2
Information collection.
212.3
Definitions.
212.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
212.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM).
212.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).
212.7
Environmental studies.
212.8
Government employees cannot acquire leases.

# Subpart B—How To Acquire Leases
212.20
Leasing procedures.
212.21
Execution of leases.
212.22
Leases for subsurface storage of oil or gas.
212.23
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
212.24
Bonds.
212.25
Acreage limitation.
212.26
[Reserved]
212.27
Duration of leases.
212.28
Unitization and communitization agreements, and well spacing.
212.29
[Reserved]
212.30
Removal of restrictions.
212.31-212.32
[Reserved]
212.33
Terms applying after relinquishment.
212.34
Individual tribal assignments excluded.

# Subpart C—Rents, Royalties, Cancellations, and Appeals
212.40
Manner of payments.
212.41
Rentals and production royalty on oil and gas leases.
212.42
Annual rentals and expenditures for development on leases other than oil and gas, and geothermal resources.
212.43
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
212.44
Suspension of operations.
212.45
[Reserved]
212.46
Inspection of premises, books and accounts.
212.47
Diligence, drainage and prevention of waste.
212.48
Permission to start operations.
212.49
Restrictions on operations.
212.50
[Reserved]
212.51
Surrender of leases.
212.52
Fees.
212.53
Assignments, overriding royalties, and operating agreements.
212.54
Lease or permit cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
212.55
Penalties.
212.56
Geological and geophysical permits.
212.57
Forms.
212.58
Appeals.

# Authority:
Act of March 3, 1909, (35 Stat. 783; 25 U.S.C. 396 (as amended)): Act of May 11, 1938, (Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 347; 25 U.S.C. 396 b-g: Act of August 1, 1956, (70 Stat. 774)); and 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9.

# Source:
61 FR 35661, July 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 212.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part govern leases for the development of individual Indian oil and gas, geothermal and solid mineral resources. These regulations are applicable to lands or interests in lands the title to which is held, for any individual Indian, in trust by the United States or is subject to restriction against alienation imposed by the United States. These regulations are intended to ensure that Indian mineral owners desiring to have their resources developed are assured that they will be developed in a manner that maximizes their best economic interests and minimizes any adverse environmental impacts or cultural impacts resulting from such development.
(b) The regulations in this part shall be subject to amendment at any time by the Secretary of the Interior. No regulation that becomes effective after the date of approval of any lease or permit shall operate to affect the duration of the lease or permit, rate of royalty, rental, or acreage unless agreed to by all parties to the lease or permit.
(c) Nothing in the regulations in this part is intended to prevent Indian tribes from exercising their lawful governmental authority to regulate the conduct of persons, businesses, operations or mining within their territorial jurisdiction.
(d) The regulations of the Bureau of Land Management, the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, and the Minerals Management Service that are referenced in §§ 212.4, 212.5, and 212.6 of this part are supplemental to these regulations, and apply
to parties holding leases or permits for development of Indian mineral resources unless specifically stated otherwise in this part or in such other Federal regulations.
(e) The regulations in this part do not apply to leasing and development governed by regulations in 25 CFR part 213 (Members of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma), 226 (Osage), or 227 (Wind River Reservation).
§ 212.2
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require a review by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501;
et seq.
).
§ 212.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following words and phrases have the specified meaning except where otherwise indicated:
Applicant
means any person seeking a permit, lease, or an assignment from the superintendent or area director.
Approving official
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official with delegated authority to approve a lease or permit.
Area director
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of an area office.
Authorized officer
means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described herein and in 43 CFR parts 3160, 3180, 3260, 3280, 3480, and 3590.
Cooperative agreement
means a binding arrangement between two or more parties purporting to the act of agreeing or of coming to a mutual arrangement that is accepted by all parties to a transaction (e.g., communitization and unitization).
Director's representative
means the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement director's representative authorized by law or lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR part 750.
Gas
means any fluid, either combustible or non-combustible, that is produced in a natural state from the earth and that maintains a gaseous or rarefied state at ordinary temperature and pressure conditions.
Geological and geophysical permit
means a written authorization to conduct on-site surveys to locate potential deposits of oil and gas, geothermal or solid mineral resources on the lands.
Geothermal resources
means:
(1) All products of geothermal processes, including indigenous steam, hot water and hot brines;
(2) Steam and other gases, hot water, and hot brines, resulting from water, gas or other fluids artificially introduced into geothermal formations;
(3) Heat or other associated energy found in geothermal formations; and
(4) Any by-product derived therefrom.
In the best interest of the Indian mineral owner
refers to the standards to be applied by the Secretary in considering whether to take an administrative action affecting the interests of an Indian mineral owner. In considering whether it is “in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner” to take a certain action (such as approval of a lease, permit, unitization or communitization agreement), the Secretary shall consider any relevant factor, including, but not limited to: economic considerations, such as date of lease expiration; probable financial effect on the Indian mineral owner; leasability of land concerned; need for change in the terms of the existing lease; marketability; and potential environmental, social, and cultural effects.
Indian lands
means any lands owned by any individual Indian or Alaska Native, Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other tribal group which owns lands or interest in the minerals, the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian mineral owner
means any individual Indian or Alaska Native who owns mineral interests in oil and gas, geothermal, or solid mineral resources, title to which is held in trust by the United States, or is subject to the restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian surface owner
means any individual Indian or Indian tribe whose surface estate is held in trust by the
United States, or is subject to restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Lease
means any contract, approved by the Secretary of the Interior under the Act of March 3, 1909 (35 Stat. 783)(25 U.S.C. 396), as amended, and the Act of May 11, 1938 (52 Stat. 347) (25 U.S.C. 396a-396g), as amended, that authorize exploration for, extraction of, or removal of any minerals.
Lessee
means a natural person, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other entity which has entered into a lease with an Indian mineral owner, or who has been assigned an obligation to make royalty or other payments required by the lease.
Lessor
means an Indian mineral owner who is a party to a lease.
Minerals
includes both metalliferous and non-metalliferous minerals; all hydrocarbons, including oil, gas, coal and lignite of all ranks; geothermal resources; and includes but is not limited to, sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay, silt, or any other energy or non-energy mineral.
Minerals Management Service official
means any employee of the Minerals Management Service (MMS) authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C.
Mining
means the science, technique, and business of mineral development including, but not limited to: opencast work, underground work, and in-situ leaching directed to severance and treatment of minerals;
Provided,
when sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay or silt is the subject mineral, an enterprise is considered “mining” only if the extraction of such a mineral exceeds 5,000 cubic yards in any given year.
Oil
means all nongaseous hydrocarbon substances other than those substances leasable as coal, oil shale, or gilsonite (including all vein-type solid hydrocarbons). Oil includes liquefiable hydrocarbon substances such as drip gasoline and other natural condensates recovered or recoverable in a liquid state from produced gas without resorting to a manufacturing process.
Permit
means any contract issued by the superintendent and/or area director to conduct exploration on; or removal of less than 5,000 cubic yards per year of common varieties of minerals from Indian lands.
Permittee
means a person holding or required by this part to hold a permit to conduct exploration operations on; or remove less than 5,000 cubic yards per year of common varieties of minerals from Indian lands.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.
Solid minerals
means all minerals excluding oil and gas and geothermal resources.
Superintendent
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of the agency office having jurisdiction over the minerals subject to leasing under this part.
§ 212.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
The functions of the Bureau of Land Management are found in 43 CFR part 3160—Onshore Oil and Gas Operations, 43 CFR part 3180—Onshore Oil and Gas Unit Agreements: Unproven Area, 43 CFR part 3260—Geothermal Resources Operations, 43 CFR part 3280—Geothermal Resources Unit Agreements: Unproven Areas, 43 CFR part 3480—Coal Exploration and Mining Operations, and 43 CFR part 3590—Solid Minerals (Other Than Coal) Exploration and Mining Operations, and currently include, but are not limited to, resource evaluation, approval of drilling permits, mining and reclamation, production plans, mineral appraisals, inspection and enforcement, and production verification. Those regulations, apply to leases or permits issued under this part.
§ 212.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM).
The OSM is the regulatory authority for surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Indian lands pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201
et seq.
). The relevant regulations for surface coal mining and reclamation
operations are found in 30 CFR part 750. Those regulations apply to mining and reclamation on leases issued under this part.
§ 212.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).
The functions of the MMS for reporting, accounting, and auditing are found in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C, which apply to leases approved under this part. To the extent the parties to a lease or permit are able to provide reasonable provisions satisfactorily addressing the functions governed by MMS regulations, the Secretary may approve alternate provisions in a lease or permit.
§ 212.7
Environmental studies.
The provisions of § 211.7 of this subchapter, as amended, are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.8
Government employees cannot acquire leases.
U.S. Government employees are prevented from acquiring leases or interests in leases by the provisions of 25 CFR part 140 and 43 CFR part 20 pertaining to conflicts of interest and ownership of an interest in trust land.

# Subpart B—How To Acquire Leases
§ 212.20
Leasing procedures.
(a) Application for leases shall be made to the superintendent having jurisdiction over the lands.
(b) Indian mineral owners may request the Secretary to prepare, advertise and negotiate mineral leases on their behalf. Leases for minerals shall be advertised for bids as prescribed in this section unless one or more of the Indian mineral owners of a tract sought for lease request the Secretary to negotiate for a lease on their behalf without advertising. Unless the Secretary decides that negotiation of a mineral lease is in the best interests of the Indian mineral owners, he shall use the following procedure for leasing:
(1) Leases shall be advertised to receive optimum competition for bonus consideration, under sealed bid, oral auction, or a combination of both. Notice of such advertisement shall be published in at least one local newspaper and in one trade publication at least thirty (30) days in advance of sale. If applicable, such notice must identify the reservation within which the tracts to be leased are found. No specific description of the tracts to be leased need be published. Specific description of such tracts shall be available at the office of the superintendent and/or area director upon request. The complete text of the advertisement, including a specific description, shall be mailed to each person listed on the appropriate agency or area mailing list. Individuals and companies interested in receiving advertisements on lease sales should send their mailing information to the appropriate agency or area office for future reference.
(2) The advertisement shall offer the tracts to a responsible bidder offering the highest bonus. The Secretary shall establish the rental and royalty rates which shall be stated in the advertisement and will not be subject to negotiation. The advertisement shall provide that the Secretary reserves the right to reject any or all bids, and that acceptance of the lease bid by or on behalf of the Indian mineral owner is required. The requirements under § 212.21 are applicable to the acceptance of a lease bid.
(3) Each sealed bid must be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check or postal money order, or any combination thereof, payable to the payee designated in the advertisement, in an amount not less than 25 percent of the bonus bid, which shall be returned if that bid is not accepted.
(4) A successful oral auction bidder will be allowed five (5) working days to remit the required 25 percent deposit of the bonus bid.
(5) A successful bidder shall, within thirty (30) days after notification of the bid award, remit to the Secretary the balance of the bonus, the first year's rental, a $75 filing fee, its prorated share of the advertising costs as determined by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and file with the Secretary all required bonds. The successful bidder shall also file the lease in completed form, signed by the Indian mineral owner(s), at that time. However, for
good reasons, the Secretary may grant extensions of time in thirty (30) day increments for filing of the lease and all required bonds, provided that additional extension requests are submitted and approved prior to the expiration of the original thirty (30) days or the previously granted extension. Failure on the part of the bidder to take all reasonable actions necessary to comply with the foregoing shall result in forfeiture of the required payment of 25 percent of any bonus bid for the use and benefit of the Indian mineral owner.
(6) If no satisfactory bid is received, or if the accepted bidder fails to complete all requirements necessary for approval of the lease, or if the Secretary determines that it is not in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner to accept any of the bids the Secretary may re-advertise the tract for sale, or subject to the consent of the Indian mineral owner, a lease may be let through private negotiations.
(c) The Secretary shall advise the Indian mineral owner of the results of the bidding, and shall not approve the lease until the consent of the Indian mineral owner has been obtained. The requirements under § 212.21 are applicable to the approval of a mineral lease.
§ 212.21
Execution of leases.
(a) The Secretary shall not execute a mineral lease on behalf of an Indian mineral owner, except when such owner is deceased and the heirs to or devisee of the estate have not been determined, or if determined, some or all of them cannot be located. Leases involving such interests may be executed by the Secretary, provided that the mineral interest shall have been offered for sale under the provisions of section 212.20(b) (1) through (6).
(b) The Secretary may execute leases on behalf of minors and persons who are incompetent by reason of mental incapacity;
Provided,
that there is no parent, guardian, conservator, or other person who has lawful authority to execute a lease on behalf of the minor or person with mental incapacity.
(c) If an owner is a life tenant, the procedures set forth in 25 CFR part 179 (Life Estates and Future Interests), shall apply.
§ 212.22
Leases for subsurface storage of oil or gas.
The provisions of § 211.22 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.23
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
The provisions of § 211.23 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.24
Bonds.
The provisions of § 211.24 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.25
Acreage limitation.
The provisions of § 211.25 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.26
[Reserved]
§ 212.27
Duration of leases.
The provisions of § 211.27 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.28
Unitization and communitization agreements, and well spacing.
(a) For the purpose of promoting conservation and efficient utilization of minerals, the Secretary may approve a cooperative unit, drilling or other development plan on any leased area upon a determination that approval is advisable and in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner. For the purposes of this section, a cooperative unit, drilling or other development plan means an agreement for the development or operation of a specifically designated area as a single unit without regard to separate ownership of the land included in the agreement. Such cooperative agreements include, but are not limited to, unit agreements, communitization agreements and other types of agreements that allocate costs and benefits.
(b) The consent of the Indian mineral owner to such unit or cooperative agreement shall not be required unless such consent is specifically required in the lease.
(c) Requests for approval of cooperative agreements which comply with the
requirements of all applicable rules and regulations shall be filed with the superintendent or area director.
(d) All Indian mineral owners of any right, title or interest in the mineral resources to be included in a cooperative agreement must be notified by the lessee at the time the agreement is submitted to the superintendent or area director. An affidavit from the lessee stating that a notice was mailed to each mineral owner of record for whom the superintendent or area director has an address will satisfy this notice requirement.
(e) A request for approval of a proposed cooperative agreement, and all documents incident to such agreement, must be filed with the superintendent or area director at least ninety (90) days prior to the first expiration date of any of the Indian leases in the area proposed to be covered by the cooperative agreement.
(f) Unless otherwise provided in the cooperative agreement, approval of the agreement commits each lease to the unit in the area covered by the agreement on the date approved by the Secretary or the date of first production, whichever is earlier, as long as the agreement is approved before the lease expiration date.
(g) Any lease committed in part to any such cooperative agreement shall be segregated into a separate lease or leases as to the lands committed and lands not committed to the agreement. Segregation shall be effective on the date the agreement is effective.
(h) Wells shall be drilled in conformity with a well spacing program approved by the authorized officer.
§ 212.29
[Reserved]
§ 212.30
Removal of restrictions.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any mineral lease to the contrary, the removal of all restrictions against alienation shall operate to divest the Secretary of all supervisory authority and responsibility with respect to the lease. Thereafter, all payments required to be made under the lease shall be made directly to the owner(s).
(b) In the event restrictions are removed from a part of the land included in any lease approved by the Secretary, the entire lease shall continue to be subject to the supervision of the Secretary until such times as the holder of the lease and the unrestricted Indian owner submits to the Secretary satisfactory evidence that adequate arrangements have been made to account for the mineral resources of the restricted land separately from those of the unrestricted. Thereafter, the unrestricted portion shall be relieved from the supervision of the Secretary, the lease, the regulations of this part, and all other applicable laws and regulations.
§§ 212.31-212.32
[Reserved]
§ 212.33
Terms applying after relinquishment.
All leases for individual Indian lands approved by the Secretary under this part shall contain provisions for the relinquishment of supervision and provide for operations of the lease after such relinquishment. These leases shall contain provisions that address the following issues:
(a)
Provisions of relinquishment.
If the Secretary relinquishes supervision at any time during the life of the lease instrument as to all or part of the acreage subject to the lease, the Secretary shall give the Indian mineral owner and the lessee thirty (30) days written notice prior to the termination of supervision. After notice of relinquishment has been given to the lessee, the lease shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1) All rentals and royalties thereafter accruing shall be paid directly to the lessor or the lessor's successors in title, or to a trustee appointed under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If, at the time supervision is relinquished by the Secretary, the lessee has made all payments then due and has fully performed all obligations on the lessee's part to be performed up to the time of such relinquishment, the bond given to secure the performance of the lease, on file in the appropriate agency or area office, shall be of no further force or effect.
(3) Should relinquishment affect only part of the lease, then the lessee may continue to conduct operations on the
land covered by the lease as an entirety;
Provided,
that the lessee shall pay, in the manner prescribed by the lease and regulations for the benefit of lessor, the same proportion of all rentals and royalties due under the provisions of this part as the acreage retained under the supervision of the Secretary bears to the entire acreage of the lessee, and shall pay the remainder of the rentals and royalties directly to the remaining lessors or successors in title or said trustee as the case may be, as provided in paragraph (a) (1) of this section.
(b)
Division of fee.
If, after the execution of the lease and after the Secretary relinquishes supervision thereof, the fee of the leased land is divided into separate parcels held by different owners, or if the rental or royalty interest is divided in ownership, the obligations of the lessee shall not be modified in any manner except as specifically provided by the provisions of the lease. Notwithstanding such separate ownership, the lessee may continue to conduct operations on said premises as an entirety. Each separate owner shall receive such proportion of all rental and royalties accruing after the vesting of its title as the acreage of the fee, or rental or royalty interest, bears to the entire acreage covered by the lease; or to the entire rental or royalty interest as the case may be. If at any time after departmental supervision of the lease is relinquished, in whole or in part, to rentals and royalties, whether said parties are so entitled by virtue of undivided interest or by virtue of ownership of separate parcels of the land covered, the lessee may elect to withhold the payment of further rentals or royalties (except as the portion due the Indian lessor while under restriction), until all of said parties shall agree upon and designate a trustee in writing and in a recordable instrument to receive all payments due thereunder on behalf of said parties and their respective successors in title. Payments to said trustee shall constitute lawful payments, and the sole risk of an improper or unlawful distribution of said funds by said trustee shall rest upon the parties naming said trustee and their said respective successors in title.
§ 212.34
Individual tribal assignments excluded.
The reference in this part to Indian mineral owners does not include assignments of tribal lands made pursuant to tribal constitutions or ordinances for the use of individual Indians and assignees of such lands.

# Subpart C—Rents, Royalties, Cancellations, and Appeals
§ 212.40
Manner of payments.
The provisions of § 211.40 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.41
Rentals and production royalty on oil and gas leases.
(a) A lessee shall pay, in advance, beginning with the effective date of the lease, an annual rental of $2.00 per acre or fraction of an acre or such other greater amount as prescribed in the lease. This rental shall not be credited against production royalty nor shall the rental be prorated or refunded because of surrender or cancellation.
(b) The Secretary shall not approve leases with a royalty rate less than 16-
2/3
percent of the amount or value of production produced and sold from the lease unless a lower royalty rate is agreed to by the Indian mineral owner and is found to be in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner. Such approval may only be granted by the area director if the approving official is the superintendent and the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs if the approving official is the area director.
(c) Value of lease production for royalty purposes shall be determined in accordance with applicable lease provisions and regulations in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C. If the valuation provisions in the lease are inconsistent with the regulations in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C, the lease provisions shall govern.
§ 212.42
Annual rentals and expenditures for development on leases other than oil and gas, and geothermal resources.
The provisions of § 211.42 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.43
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
The provisions of § 211.43 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.44
Suspension of operations.
The provisions of § 211.44 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.45
[Reserved]
§ 212.46
Inspection of premises, books, and accounts.
The provisions of § 211.46 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.47
Diligence, drainage and prevention of waste.
The provisions of § 211.47 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.48
Permission to start operations.
The provisions of § 211.48 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.49
Restrictions on operations.
The provisions of § 211.49 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.50
[Reserved]
§ 212.51
Surrender of leases.
The provisions of § 211.51 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.52
Fees.
The provisions of § 211.52 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.53
Assignments, overriding royalties, and operating agreements.
The provisions of § 211.53 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.54
Lease or permit cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
The provisions of § 211.54 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.55
Penalties.
The provisions of § 211.55 of this subchapter are applicable to this part.
§ 212.56
Geological and geophysical permits.
(a) Permits to conduct geological and geophysical operations on Indian lands which do not conflict with any mineral lease entered into pursuant to this part may be approved by the Secretary with the consent of the Indian owner under the following conditions:
(1) The permit must describe the area to be explored, the duration and the consideration to be paid the Indian owner;
(2) The permit may not grant the permittee any option or preference rights to a lease or other development contract, authorize the production of, or removal of oil and gas, or geothermal resources, or other minerals except samples for assay and experimental purposes, unless specifically so stated in the permit; and
(3) Copies of all data collected pursuant to operations conducted under the permit shall be forwarded to the Secretary and made available to the Indian mineral owner, unless otherwise provided in the permit. Data collected under a permit shall be held by the Secretary as privileged and proprietary information for the time prescribed in the permit. Where no time period is prescribed in the permit, the Secretary may, in the discretion of the Secretary, release such information after six (6) years.
(b) A permit may be granted by the Secretary without 100 percent consent of the individual mineral owners if:
(1) The minerals are owned by more than one person, and the owners of a majority of the interest therein consent to the permit;
(2) The whereabouts of one or more owners of the minerals or an interest therein is unknown, and all the remaining owners of the interests consent to the permit;
(3) The heirs or devisee of a deceased owner of the land or an interest therein have not been determined, and the Secretary finds that the permit activity will cause no substantial injury to the land or any owner thereof; or
(4) The owners of interests in the land are so numerous that the Secretary finds it would be impractical to obtain their consent, and also finds that the permit activity will cause no substantial injury to the land or any owner thereof.
(c) A lessee does not need a permit to conduct geological and geophysical operations on Indian lands, if provided for in the lessee's mineral lease, where the Indian mineral owner is also the surface land owner. In instances where the Indian mineral owner is not the surface owner, the lessee must obtain any additional necessary permits or rights of ingress or egress from the surface occupant.
§ 212.57
Forms.
The provisions of § 211.57 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 212.58
Appeals.
The provisions of § 211.58 of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
Pt. 213

# PART 213—LEASING OF RESTRICTED LANDS OF MEMBERS OF FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES, OKLAHOMA, FOR MINING
Sec.
213.1
Definitions.

# How To Acquire Leases
213.2
Applications for leases.
213.3
No Government employee shall acquire leases.
213.4
Sale of oil and gas leases.
213.5
Term of oil and gas leases.
213.6
Leases for minerals other than oil and gas.
213.7
Fees.
213.8
Filing of lease deemed constructive notice.
213.9
Noncontiguous tracts.
213.10
Lessor's signature.
213.11
Minor lessors.
213.12
Leases executed by guardians of minors.
213.13
Inherited lands.
213.14
Corporations and corporate information.
213.15
Bonds.
213.16
Additional information may be requested by Area Director.
213.17
Government reserves right to purchase minerals produced.

# Rents and Royalties
213.18
Manner of payment of rents and royalties.
213.19
Crediting advance annual payments.
213.20
[Reserved]
213.21
Rate of rents on leases other than oil and gas.
213.22
Expenditures under lease other than oil and gas.
213.23
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
213.24
Rate of rents and royalties on oil and gas leases.
213.25
Free use of gas by lessor.
213.26
Rate of royalty on casing-head gas.
213.27
Rate of rental for nonutilized gas wells.
213.28
Royalty payments and production reports.
213.29
Division orders.

# Operations
213.30
Permission to start operations.
213.31
Restrictions on operations.
213.32
Wells.
213.33
Diligence and prevention of waste.
213.34
Inspection of premises; books and accounts.
213.35
Mines to be timbered properly.
213.36
Surrender of leased premises in good condition.
213.37
Penalties.
213.38
Assignments and overriding royalties.
213.39
Stipulations.
213.40
Cancellations.

# Removal of Restrictions
213.41
Leases executed but not approved before restrictions removed from land.
213.42
Operations after removal of restrictions from leased lands.
213.43
Relinquishment of Government supervision.
213.44
Division of royalty to separate fee owners.
213.45
Restrictions especially continued as to certain lands.
213.46
Field clerks.
213.47
Forms.
213.48
Effective date.
213.49
Scope of regulations.

# Authority:
Sec. 2, 35 Stat. 312; sec. 18, 41 Stat. 426; sec. 1, 45 Stat. 495; sec. 1, 47 Stat. 777; 25 U.S.C. 356; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599. Interpret or apply secs. 3, 11, 35 Stat. 313, 316; sec. 8, 47 Stat. 779, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
For oil and gas operating regulations of the Geological Survey, see 30 CFR part 221.

# Source:
22 FR 10599, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 213.1
Definitions.
Area Director.
The term “Area Director” in this part refers to the officer in charge of the Five Civilized Tribes Indian Agency.
Supervisor.
The term “supervisor” in this part refers to a representative of the Secretary of the Interior under direction of the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, authorized and empowered to supervise and direct operations under oil and gas or other mining leases, to furnish scientific and technical information and advice, to ascertain and record the amount and value of production, and to determine and record rentals and royalties due and paid.

# How To Acquire Leases
§ 213.2
Applications for leases.
Applications for leases should be made to the Area Director.
§ 213.3
No Government employee shall acquire leases.
No lease, assignment thereof, or interest therein will be approved to any employee or employees of the U.S. Government, whether connected with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or otherwise, and no employee of the Department of the Interior shall be permitted to acquire any interest in such leases covering restricted Indian lands by ownership of stock in corporations having leases or in any other manner.
(R.S. 2078; 25 U.S.C. 68)
§ 213.4
Sale of oil and gas leases.
(a) At such times and in such manner as he may deem appropriate, the Area Director shall publish notices at least thirty days prior to the sale, unless a shorter period is authorized by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, that oil and gas leases on specific tracts, each of which shall be in a reasonably compact body, will be offered to the highest responsible bidder for a bonus consideration, in addition to stipulated rentals and royalties. Each bid must be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check, or postal money order, payable to the payee designated in the invitation to bid, in an amount not less than 25 percent of the bonus bid. Within 30 days after notification of being the successful bidder, said bidder must remit the balance of the bonus, the first year's rental, and his share of the advertising costs, and shall file with the Area Director the lease in completed form. The Area Director may, for good and sufficient reasons, extend the time for the completion and submission of the lease form, but no extension shall be granted for remitting the balance of monies due. If the successful bidder fails to pay the full consideration within said period, or fails to file the completed lease within said period or extension thereof, or if the lease is disapproved through no fault of the lessor or the Department of the Interior, 25 percent of the bonus bid will be forfeited for the use and benefit of the Indian lessor.
(b) In cases where any part of the bonus bid for a lease is paid directly to the Indian lessor, upon his signing the lease, the lessee must procure and file with the lease an affidavit of the lessor, sworn to before a U.S. Commissioner, Postmaster, Area Director, local representative of the Area Director, county or district judge, Federal judge or clerk of a Federal court, showing the amount of bonus so paid, and the balance thereof must be paid into the office of the Area Director upon filing the lease. Where possible lessees are requested to take the lessor to the nearest United States field clerk who will render all proper assistance in the execution of leases, and before whom the bonus affidavit may be executed in cases where any part of bonus consideration is paid directly to the lessor. Where leases are executed by guardians, under order of court, the affidavit of lessor may be executed before a notary public.
(c) All notices or advertisements of sales of oil and gas leases shall reserve to the Secretary of the Interior the right to reject all bids when in his judgment the interests of the Indians will be best served by so doing, and that if no satisfactory bid is received,
or if the accepted bidder fails to complete the lease or if the Secretary of the Interior shall determine that it is unwise in the interests of the Indians to accept the highest bid, the Secretary may readvertise such lease for sale, or if deemed advisable, with the consent of the Indian owners, a lease may be made by private negotiations. The successful bidder or bidders will be required to pay his or their share of the advertising costs. Amounts received from unsuccessful bidders will be returned; but when no bid is accepted on a tract, the costs of advertising will be assessed against the applicant who requested that said tract be advertised.
(Secs. 16, 17, 48 Stat. 987, 988, sec. 9, 49 Stat. 1968, sec. 4, 52 Stat. 348; 25 U.S.C. 396d, 476, 477, 509)
§ 213.5
Term of oil and gas leases.
Oil and gas mining leases which require the approval of the Secretary of the Interior may be made for periods of 10 years from the date of approval of lease by the Secretary of the Interior and as much longer thereafter as oil and/or gas is produced in paying quantities.
§ 213.6
Leases for minerals other than oil and gas.
Uncontested mining leases for minerals other than oil and gas shall be made on forms
1
prescribed by the Department, for a period of 15 years with the right of renewal on such terms as the superintendent may prescribe, and shall be subject only to approval by the Area Director. See provisions of the act of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 408). Any persons aggrieved by any decision or order of the Area Director approving, rejecting, or disapproving any such lease may appeal from the same to the Secretary of the Interior within 30 days from the date of such decision or order.
1
For further information regarding forms, see § 211.30.
§ 213.7
Fees.
The provisions of § 211.25 of this chapter, or as hereafter amended, are applicable to this part.
[24 FR 7949, Oct. 2, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 213.8
Filing of lease deemed constructive notice.
The filing of any lease in the office of the Area Director shall be deemed constructive notice of the existence of such lease. See act of March 1, 1907.
(34 Stat. 1026)
§ 213.9
Noncontiguous tracts.
No lease will be approved covering two or more noncontiguous tracts of land, but in such case a lease must be executed on each separate tract.
§ 213.10
Lessor's signature.
Any Indian who cannot write his name will be required to sign all official papers by making a distinct thumbprint which shall be designated as “right” or “left” thumbmark. Such signatures must be witnessed by two persons, one of whom must be a U.S. Government employee (such as field clerk, postmaster, U.S. Commissioner, etc.).
§ 213.11
Minor lessors.
Where the lessor is a minor, certified copies of letters of guardianship and court orders approving leases must be filed.
§ 213.12
Leases executed by guardians of minors.
Leases executed by guardians of minors under order of court for a period extending beyond the minority of the minor will be approved unless it appears that such action would be prejudicial to the interests of the minor:
Provided,
That in the event the minor becomes of age within 1 year from the date of execution of lease the consent of the minor to the execution of the lease should be obtained and submitted with the lease for consideration.
§ 213.13
Inherited lands.
Except to prevent loss or waste, leases on undivided inherited lands will not be approved until the heirship determination has been approved. If the heirs to undivided inherited lands are undetermined or cannot be located, or if the heirs owning less than one-half interest in the lands refuse to sign a lease and it appears necessary to lease the lands to prevent loss or waste, the
Area Director will report the facts to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and ask for instructions. Minor heirs can lease or joint adult heirs in leasing only through guardians under order of court. Proof of heirship shall be given upon Form F prescribed. If probate or other court proceedings have established the heirship in any case, or the land has been partitioned, certified copy of final order, judgment, or decree of the court will be accepted in lieu of Form F.
§ 213.14
Corporations and corporate information.
If the applicant for a lease is a corporation, it shall file evidence of authority of its officers to execute papers; and with its first application it shall also file a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, and, if foreign to the State in which the lands are located, evidence showing compliance with the corporation laws thereof. Statements of changes in officers and stockholders shall be furnished by a corporation lessee to the Area Director January 1 of each year, and at such other times as may be requested.
Whenever deemed advisable in any case the Area Director may require a corporation applicant or lessee to file:
(a) List of officers, principal stockholders, and directors, with post office addresses and numbers of shares held by each.
(b) A sworn statement of the proper officer showing:
(1) The total number of shares of the capital stock actually issued and the amount of cash paid into the treasury on each share sold; or, if paid in property, the kind of quantity and value of the same paid per share.
(2) Of the stock sold, how much remains unpaid and subject to assessment.
(3) The amount of cash the company has in its treasury and elsewhere.
(4) The property, exclusive of cash, owned by the company and its value.
(5) The total indebtedness of the company and the nature of its obligations.
(6) Whether the applicant or any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with the applicant has filed any registration statement, application for registration, prospectus or offering sheet with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or said Commission's rules and regulations under said acts; if so, under what provision of said acts or rules and regulations; and what disposition of any such statement, application, prospectus or offering sheet has been made.
(c) Affidavits of individual stockholders, setting forth in what corporations, or with what persons, firms, or associations such individual stockholders are interested in mining leases on restricted lands within the State, and whether they hold such interest for themselves or in trust.

# Cross Reference:
For regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, see 17 CFR chapter II.
§ 213.15
Bonds.
(a) Lessee shall furnish with each mining lease a bond (Form 5-154b), and an assignee of a lease shall furnish with each assignment a bond (Form 5-154m), with an acceptable company authorized to act as sole surety, or with two or more personal sureties and a deposit as collateral security of any public-debt obligations of the United States guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, equal to the full amount of such bonds, or other collateral satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior, or show ownership of unencumbered real estate of the value equal to twice the amount of the bonds. Lessee may file a bond on Form 5-154a without sureties and a deposit as collateral security of Government bonds equal in value to the full amount of the bond. Lease bonds, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, shall not be less than the following amounts:
For less than 80 acres
$l,000
For 80 acres and less than 120 acres
1,500
For 120 acres and not more than 160 acres
2,000
For each additional 40 acres, or part thereof, above 160 acres
500
Provided,
That for leases for minerals other than oil and gas the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative with the consent of the Indian landowner may authorize a bond
for a lesser amount if, in his opinion, the circumstances warrant and the interests of the Indian landowners are fully protected:
Provided further,
That a lessee may file a bond (Form 5-154f), in the sum of $15,000 for all leases of minerals up to 10,240 acres under the jurisdiction of the officer in charge of the Five Civilized Tribe Agency.
(b) In lieu of the bonds required under paragraph (a) of this section, a lessee may furnish a bond (Form 5-156) in the sum of $75,000 for full nationwide coverage with an acceptable company authorized to act as sole surety to cover all oil and gas leases and oil and gas prospecting permits without geographic or acreage limitation to which the lessee or permittee is or may become a party.
(c) The right is specifically reserved to increase the amount of bonds and the collateral security prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section in any particular case when the officer in charge deems it proper to do so. The nationwide bond may be increased at any time in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior.
[22 FR 10599, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 26 FR 164, Jan. 10, 1961. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 213.16
Additional information may be requested by Area Director.
The Area Director, or other Government officer having the matter in charge or under investigation, may, at any time, either before or after approval of a lease, call for any additional information desired to carry out the purpose of the regulations in this part, and such information shall be furnished within the time specified in the request therefor. If the lessee fails to furnish the information requested, the lease will be subject to disapproval or cancellation, whichever is appropriate.
§ 213.17
Government reserves right to purchase minerals produced.
In time of war or other public emergency any of the executive departments of the U.S. Government shall have the option to purchase at the prevailing market price on the date of sale all or any part of the minerals produced under any lease.

# Rents and Royalties
§ 213.18
Manner of payment of rents and royalties.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all rents, royalties and other payments due under leases which have been or may be approved in accordance with this part shall be paid by check or bank draft to the order of the Treasurer of the United States and mailed to the Area Director for deposit to the credit of the various lessors. When lessees and purchasers are instructed, in writing, by the Area Director, which instructions shall be complete as to lessors for each lease, separate remittances for each payment due each lessor shall be mailed to the Area Director. Any payments under this paragraph, covering lands or interests therein from which restrictions have been removed by death or otherwise, may continue to be made in the manner provided by this paragraph until ten days after notice of relinquishment of supervision has been mailed to the lessee.
(b) The Area Director may, in his discretion, whenever it appears to be in the best interest of any lessor, authorize and direct the lessee to pay directly to the lessor, or to the legal guardian of any lessor under guardianship, the rents, royalties and other payments (other than bonuses and advance payments for the first year) due under leases which have been or may be approved in accordance with the regulations in this part. Any such authority for direct payment shall be in writing, addressed to the owner or owners of the lease, and shall expressly provide for its revocation or modification at any time, in writing, by the Area Director. Written authorization for direct payment and written revocations or modifications thereof shall become a part of the lease and shall be distributed as in the case of original leases. All such revocations or modifications shall have a 5-day grace period after date of receipt. Rents, royalties, and other payments paid in accordance therewith shall constitute full compliance with the requirements of the lease pertaining to such payments.
(c) Rents and royalties paid pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section
on producing leases shall be supported by statements, acceptable to the Secretary or his duly authorized representative, to be transmitted to the Supervisor, in duplicate, covering each lease, identified by contract number and lease number. Such statements shall show the specific items of rents or royalties for which remittances are made, and shall identify each remittance by the remittance number, date, amount, and name of each payee.
(d) Rents paid on nonproducing leases pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be supported by a statement, acceptable to the Area Director, to be transmitted to the Area Director covering each lease, identified by contract number and lease number. Each remittance shall be identified by the remittance number, date, amount, name of each payee, and dates of mailing of remittances. Date of mailing, or, if remittance is sent by registered mail, the date of registration receipts covering remittances mailed, shall be considered as date of payment.
(e) For leases other than oil and gas, all advance rentals and royalties for the first year shall be paid to the Area Director at the time of filing the lease, and the advance royalty and 20 percent of the first year's rental so paid shall be and become the property of the lessor, if the lease be disapproved because of the lessee's failure to meet the requirements of the law or of the regulations in this part or because of any other fault or defect chargeable to the lessee.
§ 213.19
Crediting advance annual payments.
In the event of discovery of minerals, all advance rents and advance royalties shall be allowed as credit on stipulated royalties for the year for which such advance payments have been made. No refund of such advance payments made under any lease will be allowed in the event the royalty on production is not sufficient to equal such advance payment; nor will any part of the moneys so paid be refunded to the lessee because of any subsequent surrender or cancellation of the lease.
§ 213.20
[Reserved]
§ 213.21
Rate of rents on leases other than oil and gas.
On all mineral leases of allotted lands other than oil and gas leases, rental shall be paid annually in advance from the date of approval of the lease, as follows: Fifty cents per acre for the first year, 75 cents per acre for the second year, and $1 per acre for the third and each succeeding year of the term of the lease.
§ 213.22
Expenditures under lease other than oil and gas.
(a) On all leases for deposits of minerals other than oil and gas, there shall be expended for each calendar year the lease is in force, and for each fraction of a calendar year greater than 6 months, in actual mining operations, development, or improvements upon the lands leased, or for the benefit thereof, a sum which, with the annual rental, shall amount to not less than $5 per acre.
(b) The expenditures for development required by this section upon application may be waived in writing by the Area Director or other officer in charge of the Five Civilized Tribes Agency either before or after the approval of a lease, such waiver to be subject to termination at any time upon 10 days' written notice to the holder of the lease by the said Area Director or other officer in charge.
(c) Each lessee, except oil and gas lessees, shall file with the Area Director an itemized statement in duplicate, within 20 days after the close of each calendar year, of the amount and character of said expenditures during such years the statement to be certified under oath by the lessee or his agent having personal knowledge of the facts contained therein.
§ 213.23
Royalty rates for minerals other than oil and gas.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the minimum rates for minerals other than oil and gas shall be as follows:
(a) For substances other than gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, tungsten, coal, asphaltum and allied substances,
oil, and gas, the lessee shall pay quarterly or as otherwise provided in the lease, a royalty of not less than 10 percent of the value, at the nearest shipping point, of all ores, metals, or minerals marketed.
(b) For gold and silver the lessee shall pay quarterly or as otherwise provided in the lease, a royalty of not less than 10 percent to be computed on the value of bullion as shown by mint returns after deducting forwarding charges to the point of sale; and for copper, lead, zinc, and tungsten, a royalty of not less than 10 percent to be computed on the value of ores and concentrates as shown by reduction returns after deducting freight charges to the point of sale. Duplicate returns shall be filed by the lessee with the Area Director within 10 days after the ending of the quarter or other period specified in the lease within which such returns are made:
Provided, however,
That the lessee shall pay a royalty of not less than 10 percent of the value of the ore or concentrates sold at the mine unless otherwise provided in the lease.
(c) For coal the lessee shall pay quarterly or as otherwise provided in the lease, a royalty of not less than 10 cents per ton of 2,000 pounds of mine run, or coal as taken from the mine, including what is commonly called “slack.”
(d) For asphaltum and allied substances the lessee shall pay quarterly or as otherwise provided in the lease, a royalty of not less than 10 cents per ton of 2,000 pounds on crude material or not less than 60 cents per ton on refined substances.
§ 213.24
Rate of rents and royalties on oil and gas leases.
The lessee shall pay, beginning with the date of approval of oil and gas leases by the Secretary of the Interior, a rental of $1.25 per acre per annum in advance during the continuance thereof, together with a royalty of 12
1/2
percent of the value or amount of all oil, gas and/or natural gasoline, and/or all other hydrocarbon substances produced and saved from the land leased, save and except oil and/or gas used by the lessee for development and operation purposes on the lease, which oil or gas shall be royalty free. A higher rate of royalty may be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, prior to the advertisement of land for oil and gas leases. During the period of supervision, “value” for the purposes of the lease may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior be calculated on the basis of the highest price paid or offered (whether calculated on the basis of short or actual volume) at the time of production for the major portion of the oil of the same gravity, and gas, and/or natural gasoline, and/or all other hydrocarbon substances produced and sold from the field where the leased lands are situated, and the actual volume of the marketable product less the content of foreign substances as determined by the supervisor. The actual amount realized by the lessee from the sale of said products may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, be deemed mere evidence of or conclusive evidence of such value. When paid in value, such royalties shall be due and payable monthly at such time as the lease provides; when royalty on oil produced is paid in kind, such royalty oil shall be delivered in tanks provided by the lessee on the premises where produced without cost to the lessor unless otherwise agreed to by the parties thereto, at such time as may be required by the lessor. The lessee shall not be required to hold such royalty oil in storage longer than 30 days after the end of the calendar month in which said oil is produced. The lessee shall be in no manner responsible or held liable for loss or destruction of such oil in storage by causes beyond his control.
§ 213.25
Free use of gas by lessor.
If the leased premises produce gas in excess of the lessee's requirements for the development and operation of said premises, then the lessor may use sufficient gas, free of charge, for all stoves and inside lights in the principal dwelling house on said premises, by making his own connections to a regulator, connected to the well and maintained by the lessee, and the lessee shall not be required to pay royalty on gas so used. The use of such gas shall be at the lessor's risk at all times.
§ 213.26
Rate of royalty on casing-head gas.
(a) On casing-head gas used or sold for the manufacture of casing-head gasoline the minimum rate of royalty shall be 12
1/2
percent of the value of the casing-head gas, which value shall be determined and computed on the basis and in the manner provided in the applicable operating regulations of the Department.
(b) In cases where gas produced and sold has a value for drip gasoline, casing-head gasoline content, and as dry gas from which the casing-head gasoline has been extracted, then the royalties above provided shall be paid on all such values.
§ 213.27
Rate of rental for nonutilized gas wells.
If the gas from a gas producing well is not marketed or utilized, other than for operation of the lease, then for each such well the lessee shall pay such rental as may be determined by the supervisor and approved by the Secretary of the Interior, calculated from the date of the completion of the well. Payment of annual gas rentals shall be made within 30 days from the date such payment becomes due.
§ 213.28
Royalty payments and production reports.
(a) Royalty payments on all oil and gas or other producing leases shall be made at the rates, and at such time, and in the manner prescribed by the terms of the lease.
(b) Quarterly reports shall be made by each lessee on nonproducing leases other than oil and gas within 25 days after December 31, March 31, June 30, and September 30, of each year, upon forms provided, showing manner of operations and total production during such quarter. A lessee may include within one sworn statement all leases upon which there is no production or upon which dry holes have been drilled. Reports of oil and gas leases where royalty accounting is done in the field office of the supervisor will be made as required in the operating regulations.
§ 213.29
Division orders.
(a) Lessees may make arrangements with the purchasers of oil and gas for the payment of the royalties as provided for in the lease and the regulations but such arrangement, if made, shall not operate to relieve a lessee from responsibility should the purchaser fail or refuse to pay royalties when due. Where lessees avail themselves of this privilege, division orders should be executed by the lessee and forwarded to the supervisor for approval. Purchasers may be authorized by the supervisor to reimburse lessees out of royalties for advance rents and advance royalties. Copies of written instructions, notices, modifications, revocations, and authorizations, as provided for in § 213.18 (a) and (b), shall be furnished to purchasers. The right is reserved for the supervisor to cancel a division order at any time or require the purchaser to discontinue to run the oil of any lessee who fails to operate the lease properly or otherwise violates the provisions of the lease, of the regulations in this part, or of the operating regulations.
(b) When oil is taken by authority of a division order, the lessee or his representatives shall be actually present when the oil is gauged and records are made of the temperature, gravity, and impurities. The lessee will be held responsible for the correctness and the correct recording and reporting of all the foregoing measurements, which, except lowest gauge, shall be made at the time the oil is turned into the pipeline. Failure of the lessee to perform properly these duties will subject the division order to revocation.

# Operations
§ 213.30
Permission to start operations.
No operations will be permitted on any lease before it is approved. Written permission must be secured from the supervisor before any operations are started under any oil and gas lease. Operations must be in accordance with the operating regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior. Copies of these regulations may be secured from either the supervisor or the Area Director and no operations should be attempted without a study of the operating regulations.
§ 213.31
Restrictions on operations.
(a) Oil and gas leases issued under the provisions of this part shall be subject to imposition by the Secretary of the Interior of such restrictions as to time or times for the drilling of wells and as to the production from any well or wells as in his judgment may be necessary or proper for the protection of the natural resources of the leased land and in the interest of the lessor. In the exercise of his judgment the Secretary of the Interior may take into consideration, among other things, the Federal laws, State laws, regulations by competent Federal or State authorities, lawful agreements among operators regulating either drilling or production, or both.
(b) All such leases shall be subject to any cooperative or unit plan of development affecting the leased lands that may be required by the Secretary of the Interior, but no lease shall be included in any cooperative or unit plan without prior approval of the Secretary of the Interior. If said plan effects a change in the lease terms, the consent of the lessor or lessors must be obtained before the plan is effective.
§ 213.32
Wells.
The lessee shall agree (a) to drill and produce all wells necessary to offset or protect the leased land from drainage by wells on adjoining lands not the property of the lessor, or in lieu thereof, compensate the lessor in full each month for the estimated loss of royalty through drainage:
Provided,
That during the period of supervision by the Secretary of the Interior, the necessity for offset wells shall be determined by the supervisor and payment in lieu of drilling and producing shall be with the consent of, and in an amount determined by the Secretary of the Interior; (b) at the election of the lessee to drill and produce other wells:
Provided,
That the right to drill and produce such other wells shall be subject to any system of well spacing or production allotments authorized and approved under applicable law or regulations, approved by the Secretary of the Interior and affecting the field or area in which the leased lands are situated; and (c) if the lessee elects not to drill and produce such other wells for any period the Secretary of the Interior may, within 10 days after due notice in writing, either require the drilling and production of such wells to the number necessary, in his opinion, to insure reasonable diligence in the development and operation of the property, or may in lieu of such additional diligent drilling and production require the payment on and after the first anniversary date of the lease of not to exceed $1 per acre per annum, which sum shalI be in addition to any rental or royalty herein specified.
§ 213.33
Diligence and prevention of waste.
The lessee shall exercise diligence in drilling and operating wells for oil and gas on the leased lands while such products can be secured in paying quantities; carry on all operations in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with approved methods and practice, having due regard for the prevention of waste of oil or gas developed on the land, or the entrance of water through wells drilled by the lessee to the productive sands or oil or gas-bearing strata to the destruction or injury of the oil or gas deposits, the preservation and conservation of the property for future productive operations, and to the health and safety of workmen and employees; plug securely all wells before abandoning the same and to shut off effectually all water from the oil or gas-bearing strata; not drill any well within 200 feet of any house or barn on the premises without the lessor's written consent approved by the Area Director; carry out at his expense all reasonable orders and requirements of the supervisor relative to prevention of waste, and preservation of the property and the health and safety of workmen; bury all pipelines crossing tillable lands below plow depth unless other arrangements therefor are made with the Area Director; pay the lessor all damages to crops, buildings, and other improvements of the lessor occasioned by the lessee's operations:
Provided,
That the lessee shall not be held responsible for delays or casualties occasioned by causes beyond his control.
§ 213.34
Inspection of premises; books and accounts.
Lessees shall agree to allow the lessors and their agents or any authorized representative of the Interior Department to enter, from time to time, upon and into all parts of the leased premises for the purpose of inspection, and shall further agree to keep a full and correct account of all operations and make reports thereof, as required by the applicable regulations of the Department; and their books and records, showing manner of operations and persons interested, shall be open at all times for examination by such officers of the Department as shall be instructed in writing by the Secretary of the Interior or authorized by regulations to make such examination.
§ 213.35
Mines to be timbered properly.
In mining operations the lessee shall keep the mine well and sufficiently timbered at all points where necessary, in accordance with good mining practice, and in such manner as may be necessary to the proper preservation of the property leased and safety of workmen.
§ 213.36
Surrender of leased premises in good condition.
On expiration of the term of a lease, or when a lease is surrendered, the lessee shall deliver to the Government the leased ground, with the mine workings in case of leases other than oil and gas, in good order and condition, and the bondsmen will be held for such delivery in good order and condition, unless relieved by the Secretary of the Interior for cause. It shall, however, be stipulated that the machinery necessary to operate any mine is the property of the lessee, but that it may be removed by him only after the condition of the property has been ascertained by inspection by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized agents, to be in satisfactory condition.
§ 213.37
Penalties.
Failure of the lessee to comply with any provisions of the lease, of the operating regulations, of the regulations in this part, orders of the Area Director or his representative, or of the orders of the supervisor or his representative, shall subject the lease to cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior or the lessee to a penalty of not more than $1,617 per day for each day the terms of the lease, the regulations, or such orders are violated, or to both such penalty and cancellation:
Provided,
That the lessee shall be entitled to notice and hearing, within 30 days after such notice, with respect to the terms of the lease, regulations, or orders violated, which hearing shall be held by the supervisor, whose findings shall be conclusive unless an appeal be taken to the Secretary of the Interior within 30 days after notice of the supervisor's decision, and the decision of the Secretary of the Interior upon appeal shall be conclusive.
[22 FR 10599, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7652, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 213.38
Assignments and overriding royalties.
(a) Leases or any interest therein, may be assigned or transferred only with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and to procure such approval the assignee must be qualified to hold such lease under existing rules and regulations, and shall furnish a satisfactory bond for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions thereof. No lease or any interest therein, or the use of such lease, shall be assigned, sublet, or transferred, directly or indirectly, by working or drilling contract, or otherwise, without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior. Assignments of leases shall be filed with the Area Director within 20 days after the date of execution.
(b) An agreement creating overriding royalties or payments out of production on oil and gas leases under this part shall be subject to the provisions of § 211.26(d) of this subchapter, or as hereafter amended.
[22 FR 10599, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 9758, Dec. 18, 1958. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 213.39
Stipulations.
The lessee under any lease heretofore approved may by stipulation (Form 5-154i) with the consent of the lessor and the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, make such approved lease subject to all the terms, conditions, and provisions contained in the lease form and regulations currently in use. Stipulations shall be filed with the Area Director within 20 days after the date of execution.
§ 213.40
Cancellations.
(a) When, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, the lessee has violated any of the terms and conditions of a lease or of the applicable regulations, or if mining operations are conducted wastefully and without regard to good mining practice, the Secretary of the Interior shall have the right at any time after 30 days' notice to the lessee specifying the terms and conditions violated, and after a hearing, if the lessee shall so request within 30 days after issuance of the notice, to declare such lease null and void, and the lessor shall then be entitled and authorized to take immediate possession of the land.
(b) On the following conditions, the lessee may, on approval of the Secretary of the Interior, surrender a lease or any part of it:
(1) That he make application for cancellation to the Area Director having jurisdiction over the land.
(2) That he pay a surrender fee of $1 at the time the application is made.
(3) That he pay all royalties and rentals due to the date of such application.
(4) That he make a satisfactory showing that full provision has been made for conservation and protection of the property and that all wells, drilled on the portion of the lease surrendered, have been properly abandoned.
(5) If the lease has been recorded, that he file, with his application, a recorded release of the acreage covered by the application.
(6) If the application is for the cancellation of the entire lease or the entire undivided portion, that he surrender the lease:
Provided,
That where the application is made by an assignee to whom no copy of the lease was delivered, he will be required to surrender only his copy of assignment.
(7) If the lease (or portion being surrendered or canceled) is owned in undivided interests by more than one party, then all parties shall join in the application for cancellation.
(8) That all required fees and papers must be in the mail or received on or before the date upon which rents and royalties become due, in order for the lessee and his surety to be relieved from liability for the payment of such royalties and rentals.
(9) If there has been a contest respecting a lease or leases, the approved, the disapproved, or the canceled parts thereof will be held in the office of the Area Director for 5 days after the Department's decision has been promulgated, by mail or delivery, and will not be delivered, if within that period a motion for review and reconsideration be filed, until such motion is passed upon by the Department.
(10) In the event oil or gas is being drained from the leased premises by wells not covered by a lease; the lease, or any part of it, may be surrendered, only on such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may determine to be reasonable and equitable.
(c) No part of any advance rental shall be refunded to the lessee nor shall he be relieved, by reason of any subsequent surrender or cancellation of the lease, from the obligation to pay said advance rental when it becomes due.
(d) For proper method of terminating departmental leases covering lands from which restrictions have been removed see section 3 of the act of May 27, 1908 (35 Stat. 312).

# Removal of Restrictions
§ 213.41
Leases executed but not approved before restrictions removed from land.
Leases executed before the removal of restrictions against alienation on land from all of which restrictions against alienation shall be removed after such execution, if such leases contain specific provisions for approval by the Secretary of the Interior, whether now filed with the Department or presented for consideration hereafter, will be considered and acted upon by this Department as heretofore but only for
the purpose of approving or disapproving the instrument.
§ 213.42
Operations after removal of restrictions from leased lands.
(a) Oil and gas leases heretofore approved and leases for other minerals now or hereafter in force on land from all of which restrictions against alienation have been or shall be removed, even if such leases contain provision authorizing supervision by this Department, shall after such removal of restrictions against alienation, be operated entirely free from such supervision, and the authority and power delegated to the Secretary of the Interior in said leases shall cease and all payments required to be made to the Area Director shall thereafter be made to the lessor or the then owner of the land, and changes in regulations thereafter made by the Secretary of the Interior shall not apply to such leased land from which said restrictions are removed.
(b) In the event restrictions are removed from a part of the land included in any lease to which this section applies the entire lease shall continue subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, and all royalties thereunder shall be paid to the Area Director until such time as the lessor and lessee shall furnish the Secretary of the Interior satisfactory information that adequate arrangements have been made to account for the oil, gas or mineral upon the restricted land separately from that upon the unrestricted. Thereafter the restricted land only shall be subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided,
That the unrestricted portion shall be relieved from such supervision as in the lease or regulations provided.
§ 213.43
Relinquishment of Government supervision.
All oil and gas leases hereafter executed shall contain the following relinquishment of supervision clause and terms operative after such relinquishment, or other provisions similar in substance:
Relinquishment of supervision by the Secretary of the Interior.—Should the Secretary of the Interior, at any time during the life of this instrument, relinquish supervision as to all or part of the acreage covered hereby, such relinquishment shall not bind lessee until said Secretary shall have given 30 days' written notice. Until said requirements are fulfilled, lessee shall continue to make all payments due hereunder as heretofore in section 3(c). After notice of relinquishment has been received by lessee, as herein provided this lease shall be subject to the following further conditions:
(a) All rentals and royalties thereafter accruing shall be paid in the following manner: Rentals and royalties shall be paid to lessor or his successors in title, or to a trustee appointed under the provision of section 9 hereof. Rentals and royalties shall be paid directly to lessor, his successors in title, or to said trustee as the case may be.
(b) If, at the time supervision is relinquished by the Secretary of the Interior, lessee shall have made all payments then due hereunder, and shall have fully performed all obligations on its part to be performed up to the time of such relinquishment, then the bond given to secure the performance hereof, on file in the Indian Office, shall be of no further force or effect.
(c) Should such relinquishment affect only part of the acreage, then lessee may continue to drill and operate the land covered hereby as an entirety:
Provided,
That lessee shall pay in the manner prescribed by section 3(c), for the benefit of lessor such proportion of all rentals and royalties due hereunder as the acreage retained under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior bears to the entire acreage of the lease, the remainder of such rentals and royalties to be paid directly to lessor or his successors in title or said trustee as the case may be, as provided in subdivision (a) of this section.
Division of fee. It is covenanted and agreed that should the fee of said land be divided into separate parcels, held by different owners, or should the rental or royalty interests hereunder be so divided in ownership, after the execution of this lease and after the Secretary of the Interior relinquishes supervision hereof, the obligations of lessee hereunder shall not be added to or changed in any manner whatsoever save as specifically provided by the terms of this lease. Notwithstanding such separate ownership, lessee may continue to drill and operate said premises as an entirety:
Provided,
That each separate owner shall receive such proportion of all rentals and royalties accruing after the vesting of his title as the acreage of the fee, or rental or royalty interest, bears to the entire acreage covered by the lease; or to the entire rental and royalty interest as the case may be:
Provided further,
That, if, at any time after departmental supervision hereof is relinquished, in whole or in part, there
shall be four or more parties entitled to rentals or royalties hereunder, whether said parties are so entitled by virtue of undivided interests or by virtue of ownership of separate parcels of the land covered hereby, lessee at his election may withhold the payment of further rentals or royalties (except as to the portion due the Indian lessor while under restriction), until all of said parties shall agree upon and designate in writing and in a recordable instrument a trustee to receive all payments due hereunder on behalf of said parties and their respective successors in title. Payments to said trustee shall constitute lawful payments hereunder, and the sole risk of an improper or unlawful distribution of said funds by said trustee shall rest upon the parties naming said trustee and their respective successors in title. (The above provisions are copied from oil and gas mining lease Form 5-154h,
1
revised April 24, 1935.)
1
For information relative to obtaining Form 5-154h, see § 211.30.
§ 213.44
Division of royalty to separate fee owners.
Should the removal of restrictions affect only part of the acreage covered by a lease containing provisions to the effect that the royalties accruing under the lease, where the fee is divided into separate parcels, shall be paid to each owner in the proportion which his acreage bears to the entire acreage covered by the lease, the lessee or assignee of such unrestricted portion will be required to make the reports required by the regulations in this part and the operating regulations with respect to the beginning of drilling operations, completion of wells, and production the same as if the restrictions had not been removed. In the event the unrestricted portion of the leased premises is producing, the owner of the lease thereon will be required to pay the portion of the royalties due the Indian lessor at the time and in the manner specified by the regulations in this part.
§ 213.45
Restrictions especially continued as to certain lands.
Restricted lands allotted as either homestead or surplus allotments, designated as tax exempt under section 4 of the act of May 10, 1928, as amended May 24, 1928 (45 Stat. 495, 733), the entire interest in which was acquired by inheritance, gift, devise, or purchase with restricted funds, by persons of one-half or more Indian blood, after the passage of the act of January 27, 1933 (47 Stat. 777), continue to be restricted under the provisions of the last mentioned act and oil and gas leases thereof are subject to the regulations in this part and all such leases to be valid must be approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Lands inherited by or devised to full blood Indians prior to the act of January 27, 1933, are not affected as to restrictions by the provisions of said act and may continue to be leased with the approval of the county court having jurisdiction of the estate of the deceased allottee and without approval of the Secretary of the Interior (54 L.D. 382; 10 F. (2d), 487). Lands acquired prior to the passage of the act of January 27, 1933 by Indians of less than full blood, whether such lands were restricted and tax exempt or restricted and taxable, passed to such persons free of all restrictions. Inherited homesteads restricted prior to April 26, 1931, by section 9,
2
of the act of May 27, 1908 (35 Stat. 312), for the benefit of heirs of one-half or more Indian blood but less than full bloods, born after March 4, 1906, became unrestricted April 26, 1931, or upon the death prior thereto of the heir born subsequent to March 4, 1906, and oil and gas leases thereof are not subject to the regulations in this part nor under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior.
2
Repealed restrictions on inherited homesteads, by sec. 2 of the act of May 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 495).
§ 213.46
Field clerks.
Local representatives known officially as “field clerks” are located in the various districts comprising that part of the State of Oklahoma occupied by the Five Civilized Tribes. Such field clerks shall report to and act under the direction of the Area Director. Any and all counsel and advice desired by allottees concerning deeds, leases, or other instruments or matters relating to lands allotted to them shall be furnished by such field clerks free of charge. Field clerks shall not, during their term of employment, have any personal interest, directly or indirectly, in any transaction concerning leases covering lands of allottees or in
the purchase or sale of any such lands regardless of whether the restrictions have or have not been removed. This prohibition, however, shall not apply to lands which such field clerks have legally acquired before their employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Field clerks shall report to the Area Director at the end of each month the work performed during such period and special reports shall be made immediately of any apparently illegal transaction involving the estates or allotments of allottees.
§ 213.47
Forms.
The provisions of § 211.30 of this chapter, or as hereafter amended, are applicable to this part.
[24 FR 7949, Oct. 2, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 213.48
Effective date.
The regulations in this part shall become effective and in full force from and after the date of approval (Apr. 27, 1938), and shall be subject to change or alteration at any time by the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided,
That no regulations made after the approval of any lease shall operate to affect the term of the lease, rate of royalty, rental, or acreage unless agreed to by both parties to the lease. All former regulations governing the leasing of individually owned lands of the Five Civilized Tribes for mining purposes are superseded by the regulations in this part.
§ 213.49
Scope of regulations.
The regulations in this part shall apply in so far as practicable to land purchased for Indians under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of June 26, 1936 (49 Stat. 1967; 25 U.S.C. 501-509), as well as to other lands of individual Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes.
Pt. 214

# PART 214—LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS, OKLAHOMA, FOR MINING, EXCEPT OIL AND GAS
Sec.
214.1
Definition.
214.2
Sale of leases.
214.3
Corporate information.
214.4
Bonds.
214.5
Additional information.
214.6
Failure of lessee to complete lease.
214.7
Operation not permitted until lease approved; 160 acres maximum for single lease.
214.8
Acreage limitation.
214.9
Advance rental.
214.10
Royalty rates.
214.11
Payment of rents and royalties.
214.12
Time of payment of royalties.
214.13
Diligence; annual expenditures; mining records.
214.14
Use of surface lands.
214.15
Homesteads.
214.16
Settlement of damages.
214.17
Use of timber from restricted lands.
214.18
Assignments.
214.19
Cancellation.
214.20
Annual reports by corporate lessees.
214.21
Inspection of lessees' books and records.
214.22
Serving of notices.
214.23
Plat of mine location.
214.24
Forms.
214.25
Forfeiture of lease.
214.26
Fine; notice and hearing.
214.27
Changes in regulations.
214.28
Location of sites for mines and buildings.
214.29
Prospecting; abandonment of mines.
214.30
Lessees must appoint local representative.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, 34 Stat. 543.

# Source:
22 FR 10605, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 214.1
Definition.
The term “officer in charge” shall refer to the superintendent of the Osage Indian Agency and school or other representative of the Government who may, for the time, be in charge of the Osage Agency and school, or any person who may be detailed by the Secretary of the Interior or the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to take charge of leasing or mining operations under the regulations in this part.
§ 214.2
Sale of leases.
Leases of minerals other than oil and gas may be negotiated with the tribal council after permission to do so has been obtained from the officer in charge. Leases with all papers required, shall be filed with the officer in charge within 30 days from the date of execution by the lessee and the principal chief of the Osage Tribe. The lease will be forwarded to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for consideration by him and the Secretary of the Interior and
will become effective only after approval by the Secretary of the Interior. If any lease should be disapproved through no fault of the lessee, all amounts deposited by him will be promptly refunded.
§ 214.3
Corporate information.
A corporation shall file with its first lease a certified copy of articles of incorporation, and, if a foreign corporation, evidence showing compliance with local corporation laws in duplicate; a list of all stockholders, with their post office addresses, and showing the number of shares of capital stock held by each; together with a sworn statement of its proper officer showing:
(a) The total number of shares of the capital stock actually issued, the number of shares actually sold and the amount of cash paid into the treasury out of the stock sold, or, if paid in property, kind, quantity, and value of the same.
(b) Of the stock sold, how much per share remains unpaid and subject to assessment.
(c) How much cash the company has in its treasury and elsewhere, and from what source it was received.
(d) What property, exclusive of cash, is owned by the company, and its value.
(e) What the total indebtedness of the company is, and the nature of its obligations.
(f) Names of officers and directors.
§ 214.4
Bonds.
Lessee shall furnish with each lease at the time it is filed with the officer in charge an acceptable bond not less than the following amounts:
For less than 80 acres
$1,000
For 80 acres and less than 120 acres
1,500
For 120 acres and not more than 160 acres
2,000
For each additional 40 acres, or part thereof above 160 acres
500
Provided,
That for leases for minerals other than oil and gas the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representatives with the consent of the Indian landowner may authorize a bond for a lesser amount if, in his opinion, the circumstances warrant and the interests of the Indian landowners are fully protected:
Provided further,
That the lessee shall be allowed to file bond, Form S
1
covering all leases to which he or they are or may become parties instead of a separate bond in each case, such bond to be in the penal sum of $15,000. The right is reserved to change the amount of the bond in any particular case, or to require a new bond in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior.
1
For further information concerning forms, see § 214.24.
[26 FR 164, Jan. 10, 1961. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 214.5
Additional information.
The officer in charge may, at any time, either before or after approval of a lease call for any additional information necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of the regulations in this part, and such information shall be furnished within the time specified in the request therefor.
§ 214.6
Failure of lessee to complete lease.
Should a lessee fail to furnish, within the time specified after his bid is accepted, the papers necessary to put his lease and bond in proper form for consideration, the officer in charge shall recommend that the sale be disapproved and money paid forfeited to the Osage Tribe.
§ 214.7
Operation not permitted until lease approved; 160 acres maximum for single lease.
No mining or work of any nature will be permitted upon any tract of land until a lease covering such tract shall have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior and delivered to the lessee. All leases shall be made for such period as the title to the minerals remain in the Osage Tribe, which time will expire April 8, 1931, unless otherwise provided by Congress and shall be subject to cancellation or termination as specified in this part. Leases made by corporations shall be accompanied by an affidavit by the secretary or president of the company showing the authority of its officers to execute leases, bonds, and other papers. No lease shall be made covering more than 160 acres.
§ 214.8
Acreage limitation.
No person, firm, or corporation shall hold under lease at any one time without special permission from the Secretary of the Interior in excess of the following areas:
(a) For deposits of the nature of lodes, or veins containing ores of gold, silver, copper, or other useful metals, 640 acres.
(b) For beds of placer gold, gypsum, asphaltum, phosphate, iron ores, and other useful minerals, other than coal, lead, and zinc, 960 acres.
(c) For coal, 4,800 acres.
(d) For lead and zinc, 1,280 acres.
§ 214.9
Advance rental.
(a) Lessees shall pay, in addition to other considerations, annual advance rentals as follows: 15 cents per acre for the first year; 30 cents per acre for the second year; 50 cents per acre for the third year; and $1 per acre per annum for the fourth and each succeeding year during the life of any lease:
Provided,
That all such payments of advance rentals shall be credits on royalties on production during the year for which payment of advance rental is made.
(b) The payment of annual advance rental shall not release the lessee from the obligation to conduct mining operations, as required by the terms of the lease.
§ 214.10
Royalty rates.
Royalties will be required as follows, subject to the approval of the President, in accordance with the act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 543):
(a) For gold, silver, or copper lessee shall pay quarterly a royalty of 10 percent to be computed on the gross value of the ores as shown by reduction returns after deducting freight and treatment charges. Duplicate reduction returns shall be filed by the lessee with the officer in charge within 20 days after the reduction of the ores.
(b) For coal the lessee shall pay a royalty of 10 cents per ton of 2,000 pounds on mine run or coal as taken from the mines, including what is commonly called “slack.”
(c) For asphaltum and allied substances, the lessee shall pay quarterly a royalty of 10 cents per ton of 2,000 pounds on crude material, and 60 cents per ton on refined substances.
(d) For substances other than gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, coal, and asphaltum the lessee shall pay quarterly a royalty of 10 percent of the value at the nearest shipping point of all ores, metals, or minerals marketed.
(e) The royalties to be paid for lead and zinc shall be computed for each mineral at the same rate that the amount of the concentrates of such mineral bears to the total amount of dirt or rock actually mined, except as stipulated in this section. The royalty so determined shall be increased by adding 1 percent for each increase of $10 in the selling price per ton thereof over and above the following, which shall be the agreed base or standard:
For zinc—$50
For lead—$65
but in no case shall the rate of royalty be less than 5 percent or more than 20 percent. The percentage of recovery shall be computed as nearly as practicable upon the ore included in each sale, but where it is impracticable so to do the officer in charge and the lessee shall agree upon some other method of computation which will produce substantially the same result:
Provided,
That in case of their disagreement the Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall prescribe a rule of computation to be followed in such cases.

# Note:
The royalty would always be determined under this rule by ascertaining the percentage of recovery were it not for two things: (1) the flat rates which are fixed as the minimum and the maximum rates of royalty and (2) variations in the selling price of the ores. Concrete examples coming under the rule are set forth in the following table:
Zinc
[Where the base or standard is $50 per ton]
Percentage of recovery
Selling price
Royalty (percent)
7
$48
7
14
49
14
12
50
12
15
60
16
30
60
20
9
70
11
A similar table might be constructed for royalties on lead, but in so doing it would be necessary to bear in mind that the base or
standard selling price for the lead is to be $65 instead of $50.
§ 214.11
Payment of rents and royalties.
All rentals, royalties, damages, or other amounts which may become due under leases approved in accordance with the regulations in this part shall be paid to the disbursing agent at Pawhuska, Okla. The remittances shall be in St. Louis exchange, except that where such exchanges cannot be procured post office or express money orders will be accepted. All royalties or other payments or claims of the Osage Tribe arising under such leases shall be a lien upon the mining plant machinery, and all minerals mined on the property leased or in which the lessee still retains any right, claim, or interest.
§ 214.12
Time of payment of royalties.
Royalties on all minerals produced in any quarter (January-March, April-June, July-September, October-December) shall be paid on or before the 25th day of the month next succeeding, and the remittance shaIl be accompanied by sworn reports covering all operations, whether there has been production or not. Annual advance rentals shall be paid within 10 days after the beginning of the lease year.
§ 214.13
Diligence; annual expenditures; mining records.
(a) Lessees shall exercise diligence in the conduct of prospecting and mining operations, and on all leases referred to in § 214.8(a) shall expend annually in development work a sum which with the annual rental shall make an amount of not less than $5 per acre. On all leases referred to in § 214.8 (b) and (c) there shall be expended annually in development work a sum which inclusive of the annual rental shall make an amount of not less than $1 for each acre or fraction thereof included in the lease. The lands covered by each lease referred to in § 214.8 (d) shall be prospected for lead and zinc ores by drilling within 1 year test holes aggregating 2,000 feet unless a sufficient ore body is discovered to justify the sinking of a shaft to the ore body and the erecting of a mill when such tract may be released from further prospecting by the written consent of the superintendent:
Provided,
That within 90 days after an ore body of sufficient quantity is discovered, and shown by the logs or records of the drill holes, to justify the expenditure, the sinking of a shaft to the ore body, and the erection of a mill shall be commenced and continued to completion without cessation of work thereon, barring unavoidable accidents or causes beyond the control of the lessee.
(b) Lessee shall keep upon the leased premises accurate records of the drilling, redrilling, or deepening of all holes showing the formations, and upon the completion of such holes, copies of such records shall be transmitted to the superintendent by the lessee after the first completion and of any further drilling thereafter, and a failure to so furnish report within the time prescribed shall be considered a violation of the regulations. Lessee shall, before commencing operations, file with the superintendent a plat and preliminary statement of how the openings are to be made and the property developed.
§ 214.14
Use of surface lands.
(a) Lessees may use so much of the surface of the leased land as shall be reasonably necessary for the prospecting and mining operations and buildings required by the lease, and shall also have the right-of-way over and across such land to any point of prospecting or mining operations, but such use of the surface shall be permissible only under condition of least injury and inconvenience to the allottee or owner of the land. Lessees before commencing and during such operations shall pay all reasonable damages for the use of the surface land and to any growing crops thereon, or to improvements on said land, or any damage that during the life of the lease may be occasioned in any manner whatsoever by the use of the surface, to the allottee or his successor in interest or assignee, or to a lessee of the surface of said land or to an oil and gas lessee, damages to be apportioned among the parties interested in the surface, whether as owner, lessee, or otherwise, as the parties in interest
may mutually agree or as their interests may appear. If the parties are unable to agree concerning damages the same shall be determined by arbitration.
(b) All agreements (or authenticated copies thereof) providing for the settlement of damages shall be filed in the Osage Agency if the surface owner is a restricted Indian, and all such amounts which may be due and payable to any such Indian shall be paid to the superintendent and by him immediately remitted to the Indian entitled thereto. All sums due as royalty or damages shall be a lien on all equipment on leased premises.
§ 214.15
Homesteads.
Lessees and those acting under them shall not conduct prospecting or mining operations within or upon any homestead selection without written consent of the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 214.16
Settlement of damages.
Any person, other than a lessee or an allottee or the heirs of a deceased allottee, claiming an interest in any leased tract or in damages thereto must furnish to the officer in charge a statment in writing showing his interest, and failure to furnish such statement shall constitute a waiver of notice and estop said person from claiming any part of such damages after the same shall have been disbursed.
§ 214.17
Use of timber from restricted lands.
Lessees will not be permitted to use any timber from any Osage lands not relieved of restrictions upon alienation except under written agreement with the owner approved by the officer in charge.
§ 214.18
Assignments.
Approved leases or any interest therein may be transferred or assigned with the consent and approval of the Secretary of the Interior and not otherwise. Transfers or assignments, when so approved, shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the original leases and regulations under which such leases were approved as well as to such additional requirements as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. The transferee or assignee shall furnish with his transfer or assignment a satisfactory bond as prescribed in § 214.4 in connection with leases. Any attempt to transfer or assign an approved lease or any interest therein without the consent and approval of the Secretary of the Interior shall be absolutely void and shall subject the original lease to cancellation in the discretion of the secretary.
§ 214.19
Cancellation.
When a lessee makes application for the cancellation of a lease in whole or in part, all royalties or rentals due up to and including the date of the application for cancellation must be paid, and that part of the lease delivered to the lessee shall be surrendered before such application will be considered. In the event a lease is surrendered for cancellation in whole or in part, after a new lease year has been entered upon, the lessee and his surety shall be liable for the advance rentals required to be paid under the lease for that year, and no part of such rentals which may have been paid shall be refunded.
§ 214.20
Annual reports by corporate lessees.
Lessees and assignees must submit to the officer in charge on January 1, of each year and at such other times as may be required by the Secretary of the Interior, a statement containing the information called for in § 214.3(a) and (f) and also showing any changes in officers or changes in or additions to stockholders. At any time individual stockholders may be required to show to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior in what companies or with what persons or firms they are interested in mining leases on the Osage Reservation and whether they hold such stock or interest for themselves or in trust.
§ 214.21
Inspection of lessees' books and records.
Lessees shall allow the agents and representatives of the lessor, or any authorized representative of the Interior Department, to enter, from time to time, upon and into all parts of the
leased premises for the purpose of inspection, and their books and records showing manner of operations and persons interested, shall be open at all times for the examination of such officers of the department as shall be instructed by the Secretary of the Interior to make such examinations.
§ 214.22
Serving of notices.
Wherever notice is provided for in this part it shall be sufficient if notice has been mailed to the last known place of address of the party, and time shall begin to run with the day next ensuing after the mailing or from the date of delivery of personal notice; but where the party is outside the State of Oklahoma the officer in charge may, in his discretion, increase the time allowed.
§ 214.23
Plat of mine location.
Lessees are required, when so requested, to file a plat of their leases showing exact locations of all mines, proposed locations, power houses, etc.
§ 214.24
Forms.
Applications, leases, and other papers must be upon forms prepared by the department, and the superintendent of the Osage Indian school, Pawhuska, Okla., will furnish prospective lessees with such forms at a cost of $1 per set.
Form M. Application for mining lease, including financial showing.
Form N. Lease (except lead and zinc).
Form O. Bond.
Form P. Authority of officers to execute papers.
Form Q. Assignment.
Form R. Lease for lead and zinc.
Form S. Collective bond.
§ 214.25
Forfeiture of lease.
On the failure of any lessee or assignee to comply with any regulation or any obligation in the lease or assignment, the Secretary of the Interior may cancel and annul such lease without resorting to the courts and without any further proceeding:
Provided,
That the party or parties charged with such violation shall be first given not less than 30 days' notice to show cause why such lease should not be canceled and annulled or other order made with reference thereto.
§ 214.26
Fine; notice and hearing.
Violation of any of the terms or conditions of any lease or of the regulations pertaining thereto shall subject the lease to cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior, or the lessee to a fine of not exceeding $500 per day for each and every day the terms of the lease or of the regulations are violated, or the orders of the superintendent in reference thereto are not complied with, or to both such fine and cancellation in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided,
That the lessee shall be entitled to notice and hearing with respect to the terms of the lease or of the regulations violated, which hearing shall be held by the superintendent, whose findings shall be conclusive unless an appeal be taken to the Secretary of the Interior within 30 days after notice of the superintendent's decision, and the decision of the Secretary of the Interior upon appeal shall be conclusive.
§ 214.27
Changes in regulations.
The regulations in this part are subject to change or alteration at any time by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 214.28
Location of sites for mines and buildings.
In event of disagreement between two or more mineral lessees regarding sites for the location of wells, mines, buildings, plants, etc., the same shall be determined by the superintendent after investigation and after due consideration of prior right of any lessee by reason of date of approval of lease.
§ 214.29
Prospecting; abandonment of mines.
All prospecting or mining operations or the abandonment of a well or mine shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent, and any disagreement between lessees of mineral leases regarding operations likely to result in injury to either lessee shall be determined by the superintendent, whose decision shall be final, unless an appeal is filed with the Secretary of the Interior within 30 days after notice of such decision.
§ 214.30
Lessees must appoint local representative.
Before actual drilling or development operations are commenced on leased lands, the lessee or assignee shall appoint a local or resident representative within the State, on whom the superintendent or other authorized representative of the department may serve notice or otherwise communicate with in securing compliance with the regulations in this part and shall notify the superintendent of the name and post office address of the representative so appointed.
Pt. 215

# PART 215—LEAD AND ZINC MINING OPERATIONS AND LEASES, QUAPAW AGENCY
Sec.
215.0
Definitions.
215.1
No operations until lease approved.
215.2
Local representative of lessee.
215.3
Manner and time of royalty payments.
215.4
Leases to be sold at public auction.
215.5
Royalty rates.
215.6
Applications for leases; consent of Indian owners.
215.7
Advertisement of sale of leases.
215.8
Submission of bids.
215.9
Execution of leases.
215.10
Renewal of leases on developed lands.
215.11
New leases where prior leases have been forfeited or abandoned.
215.12
Advertising costs.
215.13
Bond.
215.14
Payments to be made to superintendent.
215.15
Leases to be accompanied by Form D.
215.16
Requirements of corporate lessees.
215.17
Additional information required.
215.18
Term of leases.
215.19
Forms.
215.20
Assignment.
215.21
Payment of gross production tax on lead and zinc.
215.22
Operations.
215.23
Cooperation between superintendent and district mining supervisor.
215.23a
Suspension of operations and production on leases for minerals other than oil and gas.
215.24
Books and accounts.
215.25
Other minerals and deep-lying lead and zinc minerals.

# Authority:
Sec. 26, 41 Stat. 1248; 50 Stat. 68.

# Source:
22 FR 10608, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 215.0
Definitions.
The following expressions, wherever used in the regulations in this part or leases thereunder, shall have the meaning designated in this section:
(a)
Superintendent.
The term “superintendent” shall mean any person in charge of the Quapaw Indian Agency, or having supervision under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior of the Indian restricted and trust allotted lands thereunder.
(b)
Allottee.
The term “allottee” shall mean any Indian to whom land has been allotted, or any Indian owner of land or interest therein as an heir or devisee.
(c)
Incompetent Indian.
The term “incompetent Indian” or “incompetent” shall mean any Indian who has been declared by the Secretary of the Interior to be incompetent to improve or manage his restricted or trust lands properly or with benefit to himself. The term shall also include any Indian who is a minor and any Indian who is a legal incompetent under the laws of the State. The term shall also apply to any Indian who is in fact incompetent, and the question of whether an Indian is competent or incompetent at the time of making a lease of his restricted or trust Indian lands is one for the Secretary of the Interior to determine.
(d)
Lessee.
The term “lessee,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part, shall mean any person, firm, or corporation, their legal representatives, heirs, or assigns, to whom a lead and zinc mining lease has been made by or on behalf of Indians under the provisions of the regulations in this part.
(e)
Lessor.
The term “lessor,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part, shall mean any Indian owning or having any interest in restricted or trust allotted any inherited lands under the supervision of the Quapaw Indian Agency, by or for whom a lease has been executed pursuant to the regulations in this part.
(f)
Leased lands.
The terms “leased lands,” “leased premises,” or “leased tract” shall mean any leased restricted or trust lands within and under jurisdiction of the Quapaw Indian Agency allotted to or inherited by an Indian.
(g)
Mining operations.
The term “mining operation” or “operations,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part or in leases thereunder shall mean actual drilling, mining, or construction on the leased lands.
§ 215.1
No operations until lease approved.
No operations under any lease executed under the regulations in this part shall be permitted upon any restricted or trust lands allotted to or inherited by an Indian until such lease covering such tract shall be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 215.2
Local representative of lessee.
Before actual drilling or development operations are commenced on the leased lands the lessee shall appoint a local or resident representative within Ottawa County, Oklahoma, on whom the superintendent may serve notice or otherwise communicate with in securing compliance with the regulations, and shall notify the superintendent of the name and post office address of the representative so appointed. In the event of the incapacity or absence from the county of Ottawa of such designated local or resident representative, the lessee shall appoint some person to serve in his stead, and in the absence of such representative or of notice of the appointment of a substitute any employee of the lessee upon the leased premises, or the contractor, or other person in charge of mining operations thereon shall be considered the representative of the lessee for the purpose of service of orders or notices as provided in this part, and service upon any employee, contractor, or other person shall be deemed service on the lessee. Wherever a notice is provided for in the regulations in this part or in the lease from it shall be deemed sufficient if notice has been mailed to the last known address of the lessee or his local or resident representatives, and time shall begin to run with the day next ensuing after the mailing, or from date of delivery of personal notice.
§ 215.3
Manner and time of royalty payments.
All royalties belonging to the lessor shall be paid to the superintendent of the Quapaw Agency at Miami, Okla., or such other official as the Secretary of the Interior may designate, for the benefit of the lessor, not later than 15 days from the 1st of each month for ore and concentrates sold during the preceding month.
§ 215.4
Leases to be sold at public auction.
Except as otherwise provided in the regulations in this part, no lead and zinc mining lease under this part of restricted or trust allotted and inherited Indian lands within and under the Quapaw Indian Agency shall be made except to the highest responsible bidder at public auction.
§ 215.5
Royalty rates.
(a) In leases offered for sale at public auction under the regulations in this part the royalty to be paid by the lessee shall be stipulated at a fixed percent of the gross proceeds of all lead and zinc ores and concentrates extracted from the leased premises, the royalty to be computed and based upon each sale of ore or concentrates separately, the rate of royalty to be determined and fixed by the Secretary of the Interior in the case of each lease prior to the offering of such lease for sale. Subject to the right of the Secretary of the Interior to reject any and all bids, leases offered for sale at public auction shall be awarded in each case to the responsible bidder submitting the highest bonus offer.
(b) In leases not offered for sale at public auction but otherwise made and entered into under the provisions of the regulations in this part the royalty stipulated and fixed therein shall be such as may be determined by the Secretary of the Interior or as may be agreed upon in each case, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
(c) It shall be further provided, however, that said sale-price basis for the determination of the rates and amount of royalty shall not be less than the highest and best obtainable market
price of the lead and zinc ores and concentrates at the usual and customary place of disposing of such ores and concentrates at the time of sale:
Provided, however,
That the right is reserved to the Secretary of the Interior to determine and declare such market price if it is deemed necessary for him to do so for the protection of the interests of the Indian lessor:
And provided further,
That the right is reserved to the Secretary of the Interior on behalf of the Indian lessors to reserve at any time it shall be deemed to be to the best interests of the Indian lessors and upon due notice to the lessee, the royalty share of the gross production of the ore and concentrates and upon such notice that the royalty share of such production shall be stored and not sold, the lessee shall be required to store, free of charge to the Indian lessors in the ore bins of said lessee, said royalty shares of the gross production of ore and concentrates, provided that the lessee may not be required to store ore or concentrates for the lessor in amounts greater than one-third of his bin capacity or for a period longer than 6 months.
§ 215.6
Applications for leases; consent of Indian owners.
(a) Applications or requests by the Indian owners of restricted or trust land, or by others, that such land be leased or offered for lease for lead and zinc mining purposes should be addressed to the Secretary of the Interior and submitted through the superintendent of the Quapaw Indian Agency. Upon receipt of such applications or requests, the superintendent shall give consideration thereto and forward the same to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs with his report and recommendation.
(b) In no instance will a new lease be executed and delivered (or advertised for sale to the highest bidder) unless the Indian owner thereof, if an adult who has not been specifically found by the Secretary of the Interior to be personally incompetent to transact ordinary business affairs, has agreed to the terms of said lease or the terms under which said lease is advertised for lease, except in cases where the land is owned by several co-tenants, and, in such cases, no such lease shall be given or advertised for sale unless the co-owners or a majority in interest, if adults, and not specifically declared incompetent, have first consented thereto:
Provided,
That in the event the majority in interest is owned by minors, or adults specifically found to be incompetent, then and in that event, the Secretary of the Interior reserves the right to lease the entire tract if, in his opinion, such leasing will inure to the best interest of the restricted Indian owners.
§ 215.7
Advertisement of sale of leases.
Upon authority being granted by the Secretary of the Interior to the superintendent to offer for sale at public auction a lead and zinc mining lease of any tract or tracts of restricted or trust allotted and inherited Indian lands, the superintendent shall cause a notice to be published once a week for at least 4 weeks in some designated newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the land is located, setting forth that upon a certain day, which shall be not less than 30 days from the first publication of such notice and at a place to be named in the notice, the superintendent or other duly authorized representatives of the Secretary of the Interior will offer for sale at public auction a lead and zinc mining lease of such lands to the highest and best bidder, subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, notice to be in such form as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 215.8
Submission of bids.
At the time of public auction bidders may submit their bids in person or by authorized agents, but in the latter case the bids must be accompanied by power of attorney duly executed by the real party or person in interest. Sealed bids may be submitted by mail or otherwise to the superintendent at his office at Miami, Okla., or delivered to him at the place set for the sale at any time prior to the hour fixed for offering the lease for sale. At the time and place of the public auction and before receiving the public bids the officer in charge shall announce the amounts and terms of all sealed bids received by him
and the names of the bidders. The persons present, including those, if any, who may have theretofore submitted sealed bids, shall then be allowed to offer public bids. Bids must contain the offer of the stipulated and fixed royalty (see § 215.5 as to royalty) and, in addition thereto, the offer of a bonus payable as follows: 25 percent at time of sale and the balance before or at time of execution of the lease contract. Bidders shall be required to submit with their bids a draft or certified check payable to the order of the superintendent covering the advance rental for the first year on the proposed leasehold and 25 percent of the amount of the bonus offered. The superintendent shall, in each case, determine the highest and best bid, said determination, however, to be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Upon approval by the Secretary of the Interior of the award, the successful bidder shall, within 30 days from notice thereof, enter into and execute the lease contract in accordance with said bid and the regulations in this part. The lease so executed shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and may be accepted or rejected by him when submitted for his approval. The right is reserved to the Secretary of the Interior, in the event of the rejection of such lease, to authorize and instruct the superintendent to accept the offer of some competitive bidder or to readvertise the land for lease. The report of the superintendent to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs relative to the auction sale shall contain full information as to all bids received for the lease rights on the land. If any person or party fails or refuses to execute a lease after being declared the highest bidder or after being awarded such lease, the amount tendered with his bid shall be forfeited to the superintendent for the benefit of the owner of the land.
§ 215.9
Execution of leases.
Whenever a lease award to a proposed lessee has been approved by the Secretary of the Interior, as provided in §§ 215.7 and 215.8, the lease contract shall be executed by the Indian owner of the land, if he be an adult and not incompetent as defined in § 215.0(c). Before any lease is entered into by the Indian owners or is approved by the Secretary of the Interior, all the adult and competent owners or co-owners of the tract of land which it is proposed to lease, shall be furnished by the Bureau such geological reports as may be available or that can be secured from the representative of the Geological Survey showing the estimated mineral reserves on said property, the estimated reasonable value of such property for mining purposes, and such other data as might reasonably be necessary to fully advise the owners of said property of the then present status and mining value of their lands. If the Quapaw or other Indian owner of the land is a minor, or is otherwise an incompetent as defined in the regulations in this part, the lease contract shall be executed by the superintendent for and on behalf of such minor or such incompetent. The leases executed, either by the Indian owner of the land or by the superintendent in his behalf, shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and shall be effective only upon such approval.
[22 FR 10608, Dec. 24, 1957. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982; 48 FR 13414, Mar. 31, 1983]
§ 215.10
Renewal of leases on developed lands.
(a) In cases where the lands have heretofore been leased, and lead and zinc ores have been discovered hereon, and it shall appear to the Secretary of the Interior to be advisable and to the best interests of the Indian owners of the lands that the terms of the existing lease or leases be extended or that a new lease or leases for an additional period of time, or that a new lease or leases to take effect upon the expiration of present valid leases, should, upon application therefor, be granted to either the present lessees or to parties holding under assignments, subleases, or mining contracts, from such present lessees, or to parties who have expended capital in lead and zinc mining operation and development of the land under such leases, assignments, subleases, or mining contracts, a new lease or leases or contract of extension or existing lease or leases as may be
authorized by the Secretary of the Interior may be entered into with the proper party or parties as may be determined by said Secretary of the Interior, and such new lease or leases or contract of extension of existing lease or leases shall be executed subject to the regulations in this part by and between the Indian owner of the land, if an adult and not incompetent as defined in § 215.0 (c), and said proper party or parties. If the Quapaw or other Indian owner of the land is a minor or an otherwise incompetent as defined in § 215.0 (c), the superintendent shall execute the new lease or leases or contract of extension of existing lease or leases for and on behalf of said Indian minor or incompetent. Said new leases or contracts of extension of old leases, whether executed by the Indian owner of the land or by the superintendent for and in his behalf, shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and shall become effective only upon such approval. No offering for sale at public auction or advertisement of sale will be necessary in reference to contracts of extension of leases, or to leases entered into under this section, as above provided, but such lease or contract shall be upon such terms as to bonus and royalty as may be determined and fixed in each case by the Secretary of the Interior under the provisions of § 215.5. The approval by the Secretary of the Interior of new leases or of the contracts of extension of old leases shall be conclusive as to the validity of said leases, or contracts of extension of leases, the manner and method of negotiating the same, and the execution thereof. If, however, in any case where lands have heretofore been leased and lead and zinc ores have been discovered thereon, it shall appear to the Secretary of the Interior that the extension of the existing lease or leases or the granting of new leases to the present lessees, or to the persons or parties holding under said lessees by assignment, sublease, or mining contract, would not be to the best interests of the Indian owners of the land, the Secretary of the Interior may, at the expiration, cancellation, or forfeiture of the existing lease, cause the mining lease rights on said land to be offered for sale at public auction to the highest bidder. If the lead and zinc mining lease on said land be offered for sale at public auction, the same procedure shall be followed as provided in §§ 215.7 through 215.9.
(b) Applications under the provision of this section for a lease or extension of lease or for the approval of such lease or extension of lease will not be received or considered prior to the period of 1 year next preceding the date of the expiration of such valid existing lease or leases as may be on the land covered by such application.
(c) Applications under the provisions of this section for a lease or extension of lease or for the approval of such lease or extension of lease shall be filed with the superintendent of the Quapaw Agency at any time within the period of 1 year next preceding the date of the expiration of such valid existing lease or leases as may be on the land covered by such application, and if the records of or papers in the office of said superintendent or the records of the county court of Ottawa County, Okla., indicate that there are any prior existing leases, subleases, assignments of leases or mining contracts covering any of the land applied for, the superintendent shall notify all persons having or claiming any rights or interest in or under said prior existing leases, subleases, assignments of leases, or mining contract concerning said application for lease or extension of lease, and that they will be allowed 10 days in which to file with the superintendent any objection they may have to the allowance of the application or to the approval of the new lease or extension of existing lease. If objection or protest is made by any owner of the land or by any person claiming rights or interests in or under existing lease, sublease, assignment of lease, or mining contract, a reasonable time, not exceeding 20 days, shall be allowed them in which to file their statement or brief in support of their protest or objection, and a reasonable further time not exceeding 10 days shall be allowed the applicant for new lease or for extension of existing lease to reply in support of the application. In case of contest, hearings may be had if deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Interior or his representative. The application and papers in
each case shall be forwarded by the superintendent of the Quapaw Indian Agency to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs with his report and recommendation in regard thereto.
§ 215.11
New leases where prior leases have been forfeited or abandoned.
In cases where the lands have heretofore been leased and lead and zinc ores have been discovered but the mines and mining operations have been abandoned and the leases have been canceled or forfeited or have expired, special arrangements in the matter of the leasing and mining of said lands may be made provided the consent thereto of the Secretary of the Interior be first obtained. Applications containing special offers as to the terms and conditions may be considered by the Secretary of the Interior and the leasing of said lands may be made upon such special terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may in each case deem to be for the best interests of the Indian owners of the land. If, however, in any case, it shall appear to the Secretary of the Interior that the granting of such lease would not be to the best interest of the Indian owners of the land, the Secretary of the Interior may cause the mining lease rights on said land to be offered for sale at public auction to the highest bidder. If the lead and zinc mining lease on said land be offered for sale at public auction, the same procedure shall be followed as provided in §§ 215.7 through 215.9.
§ 215.12
Advertising costs.
All advertising costs, publication fees, expenses incurred for abstracts of lease title, and other expenses incurred in connection with the advertising and sale of leases and in connection with the execution of lease contracts shall be borne by the lessee. In the event a lease of the land is offered to the highest bidder and he fails or refuses to execute such lease when duly notified and as required by or under the regulations in this part, and no other bid is accepted, such costs, fees, and expenses shall be paid from such money as he may have paid with his bid. If no bid is tendered after a tract is advertised, or if all bids are refused, said items of expenses shall be charged to the Indian owner of the land and be paid by him or be paid by the superintendent from any funds held by such superintendent to the credit of such Indian owner of the land.
§ 215.13
Bond.
Every mineral lease made and entered into under the regulations in this part, by an Indian or by the superintendent as his representative or in his behalf, must be accompanied by a surety bond, executed by the lessee and by a responsible surety company or two or more satisfactory sureties, guaranteeing the payment of all deferred installments of bonus and the payment of all specified royalties and rentals and the performance of all covenants and agreements undertaken by the lessee. Such bonds, unless authorized by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, with the consent of the Indian landowner, shall be not less than the following amounts:
For less than 80 acres—$2,500
For 80 acres and less than 120 acres—3,500
For 120 acres or more—5,000
Provided, however,
That the lessee may, in lieu of such surety bond and upon execution of a proper penal bond to the United States in the sum prescribed and a proper power of attorney to the Secretary of the Interior, submit therewith United States bonds or notes in the aggregate sum prescribed as security for the carrying out of the terms, conditions, and provisions of the lease:
Provided further,
That a lessee may file in lieu of such individual lease bonds, one bond in a sum to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior covering all leases to which he is or may become a party. The right is specifically reserved to the Secretary of the Interior to require an increase of the amount of any bond above the sum named in any particular case where he deems it necessary to require such increased bond.
[26 FR 164, Jan. 10, 1961. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 215.14
Payments to be made to superintendent.
No bonus, rents, royalties, nor other payments accruing under any mineral lease executed in accordance with or
subject to the regulations in this part and approved by the Secretary of the Interior shall be paid direct to the Indian lessor; but all such bonus, rents, royalties, and other payments accruing under any such lease shall be paid to the superintendent for the benefit of the Indian lessors, to be deposited by that officer to the credit of the superintendent in some bank designated for the deposit of individual Indian moneys.
§ 215.15
Leases to be accompanied by Form D.
Lead and zinc leases should be accompanied, when filed, with application for approval (Form D)
1
made under oath, and said application shall set forth the information therein required.
1
For further information concerning forms, see § 215.19.
§ 215.16
Requirements of corporate lessees.
(a) When the lessee is a corporation, its first application must be accompanied by a sworn statement of its proper officers showing:
(1) The total number of shares of the capital stock actually issued and, specifically, the amount of cash paid into the treasury on each share sold; or, if paid in property, state kind, quantity, and value of the same paid per share.
(2) Of the stock sold how much per share remains unpaid and subject to assessment.
(3) How much cash the company has in its treasury and elsewhere and from what source it was received.
(4) What property, exclusive of cash, is owned by the company and its value.
(5) What the total indebtedness of the company is, and, specifically, the nature of its obligations.
(b) Subsequent applications of the corporation should show briefly the aggregate amounts of assets and liabilities.
§ 215.17
Additional information required.
Corporations, with their first application, must file one certified copy of articles of incorporation and, if a foreign corporation, evidence showing compliance with local corporation laws; also a list showing officers and stockholders, with post-office addresses and number of shares held by each. Statements of any changes of officers or any changes or additions of stockholders must be furnished to the Indian superintendent on January 1 of each year and at any time when requested. The right is reserved to the Secretary of the Interior to require of individual stockholders affidavits setting forth in what companies or with what persons or firms they are interested in lead and zinc mining leases, or land under the jurisdiction of the Quapaw Indian Agency, and whether they hold such stock for themselves or in trust. Evidence must also be given in a single affidavit (Form I) by the Secretary of the company or by the president of said company, showing authority of the officers of the company to execute the lease, bond, and other papers.
§ 215.18
Term of leases.
The term of lead and zinc mining leases executed pursuant to acts of Congress and under the regulations in this part shall be for such period of time as may be determined in each case by the Secretary of the Interior, but in no case shall a lease be made to extend beyond the restriction or trust period on the lands covered by such lease.
§ 215.19
Forms.
2
2
Forms may be obtained from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C.
Application, leases, and other papers must be upon forms prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior. Except as may be otherwise provided and required by the Secretary of the Interior, the leases and other papers required under the regulations in this part shall be in conformity with the forms designated, respectively, as follows:
Form A. Lease of Quapaw Indian land.
Form B. For lease of Indian land other than Quapaw.
Form C. Application by Indian.
Form D. Application for approval of lease.
Form E. Affidavit of lessor (or of superintendent acting for him) and affidavit of lessee.
Form F. Surety bond.
Form G. Affidavit of surety on personal bond.
Form H. Certificate as to sufficiency of surety on personal bond.
Form I. Affidavit as to authority of officers of corporation to execute lease and other papers.
Form J. Penal bond (in lieu of surety bond), and accompanying power of attorney.
Form K. Assignment of lead and zinc lease.
§ 215.20
Assignment.
Leases granted or approved under the regulations in this part may be assigned and the leased premises may be subleased or sublet, but only with the consent and authority of the Secretary of the Interior and subject to his approval as to the terms and conditions of such assignments, sublease, and subletting contracts and not otherwise, and provided also that the proposed assignees, sublessee, or sublettee shall be qualified to hold such lease under the regulations in this part and shall furnish such bond as may be required by the Secretary of the Interior, such bond to be with responsible surety to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior and conditioned for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions of the lease. Upon the filing with the Indian agent of such assignment, financial statement, and bond, the said agent shall at once give notice in writing to all restricted Indian owners of said land, advising them of said proposed assignment, and that if they have any bona fide objections to same, such objections must be filed in writing within 10 days from the date of said notice.
§ 215.21
Payment of gross production tax on lead and zinc.
The superintendent of the Quapaw Indian Agency is hereby authorized and directed to pay at the appropriate times, from the respective individual Indian funds held under his supervision, such gross production tax due the State on production of lead and zinc from restricted lands under his jurisdiction as may be properly assessed under provisions of law against the royalty interests of the respective Indian owners in the mineral produced from their lands.
§ 215.22
Operations.
(a) All shafts shall be securely cribbed to a point at least 8 inches above the immediate surrounding surface and cribbing shall be maintained in good condition during the life of the mining lease:
Provided, however,
That at any time shafts may be permanently sealed by a reinforced concrete slab after first obtaining the written approval of the duly authorized representative of the Department of the Interior. The slab shall be so placed as to prevent caving of the ground around the shaft collar.
(b) All shafts, prior to the expiration, surrender, or upon cancellation of the mining lease or abandonment of the property, shall be permanently sealed so as to prevent the caving of the ground around the shaft collar:
Provided, however,
That this requirement may be waived after first obtaining the written consent of the duly authorized representative of the Department of the Interior.
(c) All shaft entrances not permanently sealed shall be so fenced, boxed, or covered as to prevent persons or animals from falling into the mine when the shaft is not in actual use, and such fencing, boxing, or covering shall be maintained in good condition during the life of the mining lease.
(d) All shafts where hoisting is done shall be boxed or fenced on three sides and the fourth side equipped with a gate which shall be kept closed when access to the shaft is not necessary.
(e) All churn drill holes shall be securely plugged to the surface unless used for ventilation or other mining purposes, in which case they shall be cased or otherwise prevented from caving or becoming a hazard to persons or animals. If cased, the casing shall extend 4 feet above the collar of the hole.
§ 215.23
Cooperation between superintendent and district mining supervisor.
(a) The district mining supervisor of the Miami field office, Geological Survey, directly or through his assistants, shall receive from lessees for the superintendent, all notices, reports, drill logs, maps, and records, and all other information relating to mining operations required by said regulations to
be submitted by lessees, and shall maintain a file thereof for the superintendent.
(b) The files of the Geological Survey supervisor relating to lead and zinc leases of Quapaw Indian lands shall be at all times available for inspection and use by authorized employees of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the employees of the Geological Survey assigned to work relating to Indian lands shall furnish to authorized employees of the Bureau of Indian Affairs such information and technical advice as may be necessary or appropriate to the most efficient cooperation in the conduct of the work assigned to the two bureaus. Likewise, similar facilities and service shall be provided for the benefit of the authorized employees of the Geological Survey by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(c) No orders of any kind will be issued by Geological Survey representatives to any Indian, but such representatives shall have full authority to issue and amend orders to operators relative to production and operations: i.e., the supervision of all operations, including safety and efficiency, health and sanitation, and prevention of material or economic waste, such orders to be prepared with the advice of the local representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

# Cross Reference:
For regulations of the Geological Survey, see 30 CFR chapter II.
§ 215.23a
Suspension of operations and production on leases for minerals other than oil and gas.
The provisions of § 212.15a of this subchapter are applicable to leases under this part.
[24 FR 9511, Nov. 26, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 215.24
Books and accounts.
(a) The lessee shall maintain books in which shall be kept a correct account of all ore and rock mined on the tract, of all ore put through the mill, of all lead and zinc concentrates produced, and of all ore and concentrates sold and to whom sold, the weight, assay value, moisture content, base price, dates, penalties, and price received, and the percentage of lead and zinc recovered. A correct statement of the same for each month shall be furnished the office of the district mining supervisor pursuant to § 215.23 not later than 15 days after the first of each month for the preceding month, together with a certificate from the smelter showing the unit price paid for the mineral purchased and the amount of ore and concentrates purchased during the month from said land.
(b) An audit of the lessee's accounts and books shall be made semiannually, or at such other times as may be directed by the Secretary of the Interior, by certified public accountants, approved by the Secretary, and at the expense of the lessee. The lessee shall furnish free of cost a copy of such semiannual or other audit, through the office of the district mining supervisor pursuant to § 215.23, within 30 days after the completion of each auditing.
§ 215.25
Other minerals and deep-lying lead and zinc minerals.
Except as provided in § 215.6(b), leases on Quapaw Indian lands, for mining minerals other than lead and zinc and for lead and zinc and associated minerals below the horizon of the rock stratum known as the Reed Springs Formation, shall be made pursuant to the provisions of part 212 of this subchapter.
[26 FR 1910, Mar. 4, 1961. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
Pt. 216

# PART 216—SURFACE EXPLORATION, MINING, AND RECLAMATION OF LANDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
216.1
Purpose.
216.2
Scope.
216.3
Definitions.
216.4
Technical examination of prospective surface exploration and mining operations.
216.5
Basis for denial of a permit or lease.
216.6
Approval of exploration plan.
216.7
Approval of mining plan.
216.8
Performance bond.
216.9
Reports.
216.10
Inspection: Notice of noncompliance: Revocation.
216.11
Appeals.
216.12
Consultation.

# Authority:
34 Stat. 539, 35 Stat. 312; 25 U.S.C. 355 NT; 35 Stat 781; 25 U.S.C. 396; sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1250; 25 U.S.C. 473a; 49 Stat. 1967, 25 U.S.C. 501, 502; 52 Stat. 347, 25 U.S.C. 396a-f; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
34 FR 813, Jan. 18, 1969, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 63394, Dec. 16, 1977; and further redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 216.1
Purpose.
It is the policy of this Department to encourage the development of the mineral resources underlying Indian lands where mining is authorized. However, interest of the Indian owners and the public at large requires that, with respect to the exploration for, and the surface mining of, such minerals, adequate measures be taken to avoid, minimize, or correct damage to the environment—land, water, and air—and to avoid, minimize, or correct hazards to the public health and safety. The regulations in this part prescribe procedures to that end.
§ 216.2
Scope.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the regulations in this part provide for the protection and conservation of nonmineral resources during operations for the discovery, development, surface mining, and onsite processing of minerals under permits or leases issued pursuant to statutes pertaining to Indian lands including but not limited to the following statutes or amendments thereto:
The Act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539);
The Act of May 27, 1908 (35 Stat. 312);
The Act of March 3, 1909 (35 Stat. 781, 25 U.S.C. 396);
The Act of May 1, 1936 (49 Stat. 1250);
The Act of June 26, 1936 (49 Stat. 1967);
The Act of May 11, 1939 (52 Stat. 347, 25 U.S.C. 396a-f, and 5 U.S.C. 301).
(b) The regulations in this part do not cover the exploration for oil and gas or the issuance of leases, or operations thereunder, nor minerals underlying lands, the surface of which is not owned by the owner of the minerals.
(c) The regulations in this part shall apply only to permits or leases issued subsequent to the date on which these regulations become effective and which are subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior or his designated representative.
§ 216.3
Definitions.
As used in the regulations in the part:
(a)
Superintendent
means the superintendent or other officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs having jurisdiction under delegated authority, over the lands involved.
(b)
Mining supervisor
means the Regional Mining Supervisor, or his authorized representative, of the Geological Survey authorized as provided in 30 CFR 211.3 and 231.2 to supervise operations on the land covered by a permit or lease.
(c)
Overburden
means all the earth and other materials which lie above a natural deposit of minerals and such earth and other materials after removal from their natural state in the process of mining.
(d)
Area of land to be affected
or
area of land affected
means the area of land from which overburden is to be or has been removed and upon which the overburden or waste is to be or has been deposited, and includes all lands affected by the construction of new roads or the improvement or use of existing roads to gain access to an operation and for haulage.
(e)
Operation
means all of the premises, facilities, roads, and equipment used in the process of determining the location, composition or quality of a mineral deposit, or in developing, extracting, or onsite processing of a mineral deposit in a designated area.
(f)
Method of operation
means the method or manner by which a cut or open pit is made, the overburden is placed or handled, water is controlled or affected and other acts performed by the operator in the process of exploring or uncovering and removing or onsite processing of a mineral deposit.
(g)
Holder
or
operator
means the permittee or lessee designated in a permit or lease.
(h)
Reclamation
means measures undertaken to bring about the necessary reconditioning or restoration of land or
water that has been affected by exploration or mineral development, mining or onsite processing operations, and waste disposal, in ways which will prevent or control onsite and offsite damage to the environment.
§ 216.4
Technical examination of prospective surface exploration and mining operations.
(a)(1) In connection with an application for a permit or lease, the superintendent shall make, or cause to be made, a technical examination of the prospective effects of the proposed exploration or surface mining operations upon the environment. The technical examination shall take into consideration the need for the preservation and protection of other resources, including cultural, recreational, scenic, historic, and ecological values; and control of erosion, flooding, and pollution of water; the isolation of toxic materials; the prevention of air pollution; the reclamation by revegetation, replacement of soil or by other means, of lands affected by the exploration or mining operations; the prevention of slides; the protection of fish and wildlife and their habitat; and the prevention of hazards to public health and safety.
(2) A technical examination of an area should be made with the recognition that actual potential mining sites and mining operations vary widely with respect to topography, climate, surrounding land uses, proximity to densely used areas, and other environmental influences and that mining and reclamation requirements should provide sufficient flexibility to permit adjustment to local conditions.
(b) Based upon the technical examination, the superintendent shall formulate the general requirements which the applicant must meet for the protection of nonmineral resources during the conduct of exploration or mining operations and for the reclamation of lands or waters affected by exploration or mining operations. The general requirements shall be made known in writing to the applicant before the issuance of a permit or lease and upon acceptance thereof by the applicant, shall be incorporated in the permit or lease.
(c) In each instance in which an application is made the mining supervisor shall participate in the technical examination and in the formulation of the general requirements.
(d) The superintendent may prohibit or otherwise restrict operations on any part of an area whenever it is determined that such part of the area described in an application for a permit or lease is such that previous experience under similar conditions has shown that operations cannot feasibly be conducted by any known methods or measures to avoid—
(1) Rock or landslides which would be a hazard to human lives or endanger or destroy private or public property; or
(2) Substantial deposition of sediment and silt into streams, lakes, reservoirs; or
(3) A lowering of water quality below standards established by the appropriate State water pollution control agency, or by the Secretary of the Interior, or his authorized representative; or
(4) A lowering of the quality of waters whose quality exceeds that required by the established standards—unless and until it has been affirmatively demonstrated to the Secretary of the Interior, or his authorized representative, that such lowering of quality is necessary to economic and social development and will not preclude any assigned uses made of such waters; or
(5) The destruction of key wildlife habitat or important scenic, historical, or other natural or cultural features.
(e) If, on the basis of a technical examination, the superintendent determines that there is a likelihood that there will be a lowering of water quality as described in paragraphs (d) (3) and (4) of this section caused by the operation, no lease or permit shall be issued until after consultation with the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration and a finding by the Administration that the proposed operation would not be in violation of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 466
et seq.
), or of Executive Order No. 11288 (31 FR 9261). Where a permit or lease is involved the Superintendent's determination shall be made in consultation with the mining supervisor.
§ 216.5
Basis for denial of a permit or lease.
An application for a permit or lease to conduct exploratory or mining operations may be denied any applicant who has forfeited a required bond because of failure to comply with a mining plan. However, a permit or lease may not be denied an applicant because of the forfeiture of a bond if the lands disturbed under his previous permit or lease have subsequently been reclaimed without cost to the lessor or the United States.
§ 216.6
Approval of exploration plan.
(a) Before commencing any surface disturbing operations to explore, test or prospect for minerals, the operator shall file with the mining supervisor a plan for the proposed exploration operations. The mining supervisor shall consult with the superintendent with respect to the surface protection and reclamation aspects before approving said plan.
(b) Depending upon the size and nature of the operation and the requirements established pursuant to § 216.4 the mining supervisor may require that the exploration plan submitted by the operator include any or all of the following:
(1) A description of the area within which exploration is to be conducted;
(2) Two copies of a suitable map or aerial photograph showing topographic, cultural and drainage features;
(3) A statement of proposed exploration methods; i.e., drilling, trenching, etc., and the location of primary support roads and facilities;
(4) A description of measures to be taken to prevent or control fire, soil erosion, pollution of surface and ground water, damage to fish and wildlife or other natural resources, and hazards to public health and safety both during and upon abandonment of exploration activities.
(c) The mining supervisor shall promptly review the exploration plan submitted to him by the operator and shall indicate to the operator any changes, additions, or amendments necessary to meet the requirements formulated pursuant to § 216.4, the provisions of these regulations, and the terms of the permit.
(d) The operator shall comply with the provisions of an approved exploration plan. The mining supervisor may, with respect to such a plan, exercise the authority provided by paragraphs (f) and (g) of § 216.7 respecting a mining plan.
§ 216.7
Approval of mining plan.
(a) Before surface mining operations may commence under any permit or lease, the operator must file a mining plan with the mining supervisor and obtain his approval of the plan. The mining supervisor shall consult with the superintendent with respect to the surface protection and reclamation aspects before approving said plan.
(b) Depending on the size and nature of the operation and the requirements established pursuant to § 216.4 the mining supervisor may require that the mining plan submitted by the operator include any or all of the following:
(1) A description of the location and area to be affected by the operations;
(2) Two copies of a suitable map, or aerial photograph showing the topography, the area covered by the permit or lease, the name and location of major topographic and cultural features, and the drainage plan away from the area affected;
(3) A statement of proposed methods of operating, including a description of proposed roads or vehicular trails; the size and location of structures and facilities to be built;
(4) An estimate of the quantity of water to be used and pollutants that are expected to enter any receiving waters;
(5) A design for the necessary impoundment, treatment or control of all runoff water and drainage from workings so as to reduce soil erosion and sedimentation and to prevent the pollution of receiving waters;
(6) A description of measures to be taken to prevent or control fire, soil erosion, pollution of surface and ground water, damage to fish and wildlife, and hazards to public health and safety; and
(7) A statement of the proposed manner and time of performance of work to
reclaim areas disturbed by the holder's operation.
(c) In those instances in which the permit or lease requires the revegetation of an area of land to be affected, the mining plan shall show:
(1) Proposed methods of preparation and fertilizing the soil prior to replanting;
(2) Types and mixtures of shrubs, trees, or tree seedlings, grasses or legumes to be planted; and
(3) Types and methods of planting, including the amount of grasses or legumes per acre, or the number and spacing of trees, or tree seedlings, or combinations of grasses and trees.
(d) In those instances in which the permit or lease requires regrading and backfilling, the mining plan shall show the proposed methods and the timing of grading and backfilling of areas of land to be affected by the operation.
(e) The mining supervisor shall review the mining plan submitted to him by the operator and shall promptly indicate to the operator any changes, additions, or amendments necessary to meet the requirements formulated pursuant to § 216.4, the provisions of these regulations and the terms of the permit or lease. The operator shall comply with the provisions of an approved mining plan.
(f) A mining plan may be changed by mutual consent of the mining supervisor and the operator at any time to adjust to changed conditions or to correct any oversight. To obtain approval of a change or supplemental plan, the operator shall submit a written statement of the proposed changes or supplement and the justification for the changes proposed. The mining supervisor shall promptly notify the operator that he consents to the proposed changes or supplement, or in the event he does not consent, he shall specify the modifications thereto under which the proposed changes or supplement would be acceptable. After mutual acceptance of a change of a plan, the operator shall not depart therefrom without further approval.
(g) If circumstances warrant or if development of a mining plan for the entire operation is dependent upon unknown factors which cannot or will not be determined except during the progress of the operations, a partial plan may be approved and supplemented from time to time. The operator shall not, however, perform any operation except under an approved plan.
§ 216.8
Performance bond.
(a) Upon approval of an exploration plan or mining plan, the operator shall be required to file a suitable performance bond of not less than $2,000 with satisfactory surety, payable to the Secretary of the Interior, and the bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful compliance with applicable regulations, the terms and conditions of the permit, lease, or contract, and the exploration or mining plan as approved, amended or supplemented. The bond shall be in an amount sufficient to satisfy the reclamation requirements established pursuant to an approved exploration or mining plan, or an approved partial or supplemental plan. In determining the amount of the bond consideration shall be given to the character and nature of the reclamation requirements and the estimated costs of reclamation in the event that the operator forfeits his performance bond. In lieu of a surety bond an operator may elect to deposit cash or negotiable bonds of the U.S. government. The cash deposit or the market value of such securities shall be equal at least to the required sum of the bond.
(b) In a particular instance where the circumstances are such as to warrant an exception, the amount of the bond for a particular operation may be reduced to less than the required minimum of $2,000.
(c) The superintendent shall set the amount of a bond and take the necessary action for an increase or for a complete or partial release of a bond. He shall take action with respect to bonds for leases or permits only after consultation with the mining supervisor.
§ 216.9
Reports.
(a) Within 30 days after the end of each calendar year, or if operations cease before the end of a calendar year, within 30 days after the cessation of operations, the operator shall submit
an operations report to the mining supervisor containing the following information:
(1) An identification of the permit or lease and the location of the operation.
(2) A description of the operations performed during the period of time for which the report is filed.
(3) An identification of the area of land affected by the operations and a description of the manner in which the land has been affected.
(4) A statement as to the number of acres disturbed by the operations and the number of acres which were reclaimed during the period of time.
(5) A description of the method utilized for reclamation and the results thereof.
(6) A statement and description of reclamation work remaining to be done.
(b) Upon completion of such grading and backfilling as may be required by an approved exploration or mining plan, the operator shall make a report thereon to the mining supervisor and request inspection for approval. Whenever it is determined by such inspection that backfilling and grading have been carried out in accordance with the established requirements and approved exploration or mining plan, the superintendent shall issue a release of an appropriate amount of the performance bond for the area graded and backfilled. Appropriate amounts of the bond shall be retained to assure that satisfactory planting, if required, is carried out.
(c)(1) Whenever planting is required by an approved exploration or mining plan, the operator shall file a report with the superintendent whenever such planting is completed. The report shall—
(i) Identify the permit or lease;
(ii) Show the type of planting or seeding, including mixtures and amounts;
(iii) Show the date of planting or seeding;
(iv) Identify or describe the areas of the lands which have been planted;
(v) Contain such other information as may be relevant.
(2) The superintendent, as soon as possible after the completion of the first full growing season, shall make an inspection and evaluation of the vegetative cover and planting to determine if a satisfactory growth has been established.
(3) If it is determined that a satisfactory vegetative cover has been established and is likely to continue to grow, any remaining portion of the surety bond may be released if all requirements have been met by the operator.
(d)(1) Not less than 30 days prior to cessation or abandonment of operations, the operator shall report to the mining supervisor his intention to cease or abandon operations, together with a statement of the exact number of acres of land affected by his operations, the extent of reclamation accomplished and other relevant information.
(2) Upon receipt of such report an inspection shall be made to determine whether operations have been carried out in accordance with the approved exploration or mining plan.
§ 216.10
Inspection: Notice of noncompliance: Revocation.
(a) The mining supervisor and superintendent shall have the right to enter upon the lands under a permit or lease, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of inspection or investigation to determine whether the terms and conditions of the permit or lease and the requirements of the exploration or mining plan have been complied with.
(b) If the mining supervisor determines that an operator has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit or lease, or with the requirements of an exploration or mining plan, or with the provisions of applicable regulations, the superintendent shall serve a notice of noncompliance upon the operator by delivery in person to him or his agent or by certified or registered mail addressed to the operator at his last known address.
(c) A notice of noncompliance shall specify in what respects the operator has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit or lease or the requirements of an exploration or mining plan, or the provisions of applicable regulations, and shall specify the action which must be taken to correct the noncompliance and the time limits
within which such action must be taken.
(d) Failure of the operator to take action in accordance with the notice of noncompliance shall be grounds for suspension by the mining supervisor of operations or for the initiation of action for the cancellation of the permit or lease and for forfeiture of the surety bond required under § 216.8.
§ 216.11
Appeals.
An applicant, permittee, lessee, or lessor aggrieved by a decision or order of a mining supervisor or superintendent may appeal such decision or order. An appeal from a decision or order of a superintendent shall be made pursuant to 25 CFR part 2. An appeal from a decision or order of a mining supervisor shall be made pursuant to 30 CFR parts 211 and 231.
§ 216.12
Consultation.
A superintendent shall consult with the Indian landowner with respect to actions he proposes to take under §§ 216.4, 216.6, 216.7, 216.9, and 216.10.
Pt. 217

# PART 217—MANAGEMENT OF TRIBAL ASSETS OF UTE INDIAN TRIBE, UINTAH AND OURAY RESERVATION, UTAH, BY THE TRIBE AND THE UTE DISTRIBUTION CORP.
Sec.
217.1
Definitions.
217.2
Authority and purpose.
217.3
Referral of questions by superintendent.
217.4
Referral of questions by the joint managers.
217.5
Management decisions.
217.6
Method of casting votes.
217.7
Implementation of decision.

# Authority:
Secs. 27 and 28 of the Act of August 27, 1954, 68 Stat. 868 (25 U.S.C. 677-677aa); 5 U.S.C. 301; secs. 463, 465 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 2 and 9) and 230 DM 1 and 2.

# Source:
43 FR 40458, Sept. 12, 1978, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 217.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Assets
means all unadjudicated or unliquidated claims against the United States, all gas, oil, and mineral rights of every kind, and all other assets of the Ute Tribe of Uintah and Ouray Reservation as constituted on August 27, 1954, not distributed in accordance with the terms of the Ute Partition Act.
Business Committee
means the Uintah and Ouray Tribal Business Committee, created pursuant to the provisions of the constitution and bylaws of the Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation.
Board of directors
means the board of directors of the Ute Distribution Corp., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah.
Joint manager
or
joint managers
means the business committee and the board of directors, or either of them, as is appropriate, within the context where one of those terms is used.
Superintendent
means the superintendent of the Uintah and Ouray Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Secretary
means the secretary of the Interior or a subordinate official acting pursuant to authority delegated by said Secretary.
§ 217.2
Authority and purpose.
In accordance with the Ute Partition Act approved August 27, 1954 (68 Stat. 868; 25 U.S.C. 677-677aa), as amended by the Act of August 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 936), and the Act of September 25, 1962 (76 Stat. 597), assets shall be managed jointly by the business committee and the board of directors. These regulations set out the procedures for exercising such joint management.
§ 217.3
Referral of questions by superintendent.
The superintendent shall refer all questions and problems related to the management of the assets as they come to his attention, together with his analysis of alternative solutions to each question or problem, to the business committee and to the board of directors for resolution. Such referrals shall be in writing and shall be addressed to the joint managers at such addresses as they furnish to the superintendent and to each other from time to time.
§ 217.4
Referral of questions by the joint managers.
The business committee and the board of directors must refer to each other for resolution any questions or problems related to joint management of the assets which they from time to time determine need to be resolved together with the submitting party's proposal, if any, for solution. Such referrals shall be in writing, addressed to the other joint manager at the address furnished in accordance with § 217.3 of this part. Copies of all such referrals shall also be furnished to the superintendent. Either of the parties may request an analysis of alternative solutions of each question or problem referred pursuant to this section, and the superintendent will furnish such analysis within ten working days, or within such longer period as he may notify the parties is required to prepare such analysis.
§ 217.5
Management decisions.
In arriving at management decisions concerning the assets, the business committee shall be entitled to cast 72.83814 votes and the board of directors shall be entitled to cast 27.16186 votes. Any total number of votes cast exceeding 50 shall be sufficient to determine an issue submitted to the joint managers for resolution. A majority of votes cast will decide an issue.
§ 217.6
Method of casting votes.
Within 30 days after an issue and any analysis provided for in §§ 217.4 and 217.5 have been submitted to the joint managers for resolution, they shall each notify the superintendent in writing of the number of votes cast for and against the proposed or alternative solutions. If either of the joint managers fails or refuses to cast his votes and to notify the superintendent thereof within the time specified, the superintendent may conclude that such joint managers' votes have been cast against the proposed solution or solutions; or, if no solutions have been proposed, for the maintenance of the status quo. At the time they notify the superintendent of the votes cast on an issue, each joint manager shall furnish to the superintendent a certified copy of a resolution of the business committee or the board of directors, as the case may be, authorizing such vote.
§ 217.7
Implementation of decision.
The Secretary shall issue such documents as are necessary or expendient to implement the decisions of the joint managers, insofar as such issuance is authorized by law, and he shall execute and/or approve such documents for and on behalf of the joint managers, or either of them, and on behalf of the United States, as necessary. If it becomes necessary for the Secretary to execute an instrument on behalf of one or both of the joint managers and to approve the same instrument as trustee, two different officials having delegated authority from the Secretary shall serve as executing and approving officers, respectively.
Pt. 224

# PART 224—TRIBAL ENERGY RESOURCE AGREEMENTS UNDER THE INDIAN TRIBAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AND SELF DETERMINATION ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
224.10
What is the purpose of this part?
224.20
How will the Secretary interpret and implement this part and the Act?
224.30
What definitions apply to this part?
224.40
How does the Act or a TERA affect the Secretary's trust responsibility?
224.41
When does the Secretary require agreement of more than one Tribe to approve a TERA?
224.42
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect these regulations?

# Subpart B—Procedures for Obtaining Tribal Energy Resource Agreements
224.50
What is the purpose of this subpart?

# Pre-application Consultation and the Form of Application
224.51
What is a pre-application consultation between a Tribe and the Secretary?
224.52
What may a Tribe include in a TERA?
224.53
What must an application for a TERA contain?

# Processing Applications
224.54
How must a Tribe submit an application?
224.55
Is information a Tribe submits throughout the TERA process under this
part subject to disclosure to third parties?
224.56
What is the effect of the Secretary's receipt of a qualified Tribe's complete application?
224.57
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of an application?

# Application Consultation Meeting
224.58
What is an application consultation meeting?
224.59
How will the Secretary use the results of the application consultation meeting?
224.60
What will the Secretary provide to the Tribe after the application consultation meeting?
224.61
What will the Tribe provide to the Secretary after receipt of the Secretary's report on the application consultation meeting?
224.62
May a final proposed TERA differ from the original proposed TERA?

# TERA Requirements
224.63
What provisions must a TERA contain?
224.64
How may a Tribe assume management of development of different types of energy resources?
224.65
How may a Tribe assume additional activities under a TERA?
224.66
How may a Tribe reduce the scope of the TERA?

# Public Notification and Comment
224.67
What must the Secretary do upon the Secretary's receipt of a final proposed TERA?
224.68
How will the Secretary use public comments?

# Subpart C—Approval of Tribal Energy Resource Agreements
224.70
Will the Secretary review a proposed TERA under the National Environmental Policy Act?
224.71
What standards will the Secretary use to decide to approve a final proposed TERA?
224.72-224.73
[Reserved]
224.74
When must the Secretary approve or disapprove a final proposed TERA?
224.75
What must the Secretary do upon approval or disapproval of a final proposed TERA?
224.76
Upon notification of disapproval, may a Tribe re-submit a revised final proposed TERA?
224.77
Who may appeal the Secretary's decision on a final proposed TERA or a revised final proposed TERA?
224.78
How long will a TERA remain in effect?
224.79
Will the Secretary make non-expended amounts available to the Tribe?

# Subpart D—Implementation of Tribal Energy Resource Agreements

# Applicable Authorities and Responsibilities
224.80
Under what authority will a Tribe perform activities for energy resource development?
224.81
What laws are applicable to activities?
224.82
What activities will the Department continue to perform after approval of a TERA?

# Leases, Business Agreements, and Rights-of-Way Under a TERA
224.83
What must a Tribe do after executing a lease or business agreement, or granting a right-of-way?
224.84
When may a Tribe grant a right-of-way?
224.85
When may a Tribe enter into a lease or business agreement?
224.86
Are there limits on the duration of leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way?

# Violation or Breach
224.87
What are the obligations of a Tribe if it discovers a violation or breach?
224.88
What must the Secretary do after receiving notice of a violation or breach from the Tribe?
224.89
What procedures will the Secretary use to enforce leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way?

# Subpart E—Interested Party Petitions
224.100
May a person or entity ask the Secretary to review a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
224.101
Who is an interested party?
224.102
Must a Tribe establish a comment or hearing process for addressing environmental concerns?
224.103
Must a Tribe establish other public participation processes?
224.104
Must a Tribe enact Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures permitting a person or entity to allege that a Tribe is not complying with a TERA?
224.105
How may a person or entity obtain copies of Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that would permit an allegation of noncompliance with a TERA?
224.106
If a Tribe has enacted Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures for challenging Tribal action, how must the Tribe respond to a petition?
224.107
What must a petitioner do before filing a petition with the Secretary?
224.108
May Tribes offer a resolution of a petitioner's claim?
224.109
What must a petitioner claim or request in a petition filed with the Secretary?
224.110
What must a petition to the Secretary contain?
224.111
When may a petitioner file a petition with the Secretary?
224.112
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of a petition?
224.113
What must the Tribe do after it completes petition consultation with the Secretary?
224.114
How may the Tribe address a petition in its written response?
224.115
When in the petition process must the Secretary investigate a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
224.116
What is the time period in which the Secretary must investigate a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
224.117
Must the Secretary make a determination of the Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
224.118
How must the Tribe respond to the Secretary's notice of the opportunity for a hearing?
224.119
What must the Secretary do when making a decision on a petition?
224.120
What action may the Secretary take to ensure compliance with a TERA?
224.121
How may a Tribe or a petitioner appeal the Secretary's decision about the Tribe's compliance with the TERA?

# Subpart F—Periodic Reviews
224.130
What is the purpose of this subpart?
224.131
What is a periodic review and evaluation?
224.132
How does the Secretary conduct a periodic review and evaluation?
224.133
What must the Secretary do after a periodic review and evaluation?
224.134
How often must the Secretary conduct a periodic review and evaluation?
224.135
Under what circumstances may the Secretary conduct additional reviews and evaluations?

# Noncompliance
224.136
How will the Secretary's report address a Tribe's noncompliance?
224.137
What must the Secretary do if a Tribe's noncompliance has resulted in harm or the potential for harm to a physical trust asset?
224.138
What must the Secretary do if a Tribe's noncompliance has caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?
224.139
What must a Tribe do after receiving a notice of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?
224.140
What must the Secretary do if the Tribe fails to respond to or does not comply with the Secretary's order?
224.141
What must the Secretary do if the Tribe responds to the Secretary's order?

# Subpart G—Reassumption
224.150
What is the purpose of this subpart?
224.151
When may the Secretary reassume activities?
224.152
Must the Secretary always reassume the activities upon a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?

# Notice of Intent to Reassume
224.153
Must the Secretary notify the Tribe of an intent to reassume the authority granted?
224.154
What must a notice of intent to reassume include?
224.155
When must a Tribe respond to a notice of intent to reassume?
224.156
What information must the Tribe's response to the notice of intent to reassume include?
224.157
How must the Secretary proceed after receiving the Tribe's response?
224.158
What must the Secretary include in a written notice of reassumption?
224.159
How will reassumption affect valid existing rights or lawful actions taken before the effective date of the reassumption?
