(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a result of any amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall
publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the
Federal Register
of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by the agencies.
Pt. 1235

# PART 1235—RECORD RETENTION FOR REGULATED ENTITIES AND OFFICE OF FINANCE
Sec.
1235.1
Purpose and scope.
1235.2
Definitions.
1235.3
Establishment and evaluation of a record retention program.
1235.4
Minimum requirements of a record retention program.
1235.5
Record hold.
1235.6
Access to records.
1235.7
Supervisory action.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511(b), 4513(a), 4513b(a)(10) and (11), 4526.

# Source:
76 FR 33127, June 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1235.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to set forth minimum requirements for a record retention program for each regulated entity and the Office of Finance. The requirements are intended to further prudent management as well as to ensure that complete and accurate records of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance are readily accessible to FHFA.
§ 1235.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Electronic record
means a record created, generated, communicated, or stored by electronic means.
E-mail
means a document created or received on a computer network for transmitting messages electronically, and any attachments which may be transmitted with the document.
Employee
means any officer or employee of a regulated entity or the Office of Finance.
Record
means any information, whether generated internally or received from outside sources by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance, related to the conduct of the business of a regulated entity or the Office of Finance (which business, in the case of the Office of Finance, shall include any functions performed with respect to the Financing Corporation) or to legal or regulatory requirements, regardless of the following—
(1) Form or format, including hard copy documents (
e.g.,
files, logs, and reports), electronic documents (
e.g.,
e-mail, databases, spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, electronic reporting systems, electronic tapes and back-up tapes, optical discs, CD-ROMS, and DVDs), and voicemail or recorded telephone line records;
(2) Where the information is stored or located, including network servers, desktop or laptop computers and handheld computers, other wireless devices with text messaging capabilities, and on-site or off-site at a storage facility;
(3) Whether the information is maintained or used on regulated entity or Office of Finance equipment, or on personal or home computer systems of an employee; or
(4) Whether the information is active or inactive.
Record hold
means a requirement, an order, or a directive from a regulated entity, the Office of Finance, or FHFA that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance is to retain records relating to a particular issue in connection with an actual or a potential FHFA examination, investigation, enforcement proceeding, or litigation of which the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has received notice from FHFA or otherwise has knowledge.
Record retention schedule
means a schedule that details the categories of records a regulated entity or the Office of Finance is required to retain and the corresponding retention periods. The record retention schedule includes all
media, such as microfilm and machine-readable computer records, for each record category.
Retention period
means the length of time that records must be kept before they are destroyed, as determined by the organization's record retention schedule. Records not authorized for destruction have a retention period of “permanent.”
[76 FR 33127, June 8, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013]
§ 1235.3
Establishment and evaluation of a record retention program.
(a)
Establishment.
Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall establish and maintain a written record retention program and provide a copy of such program to the Deputy Director of the Division of Enterprise Regulation, or his or her designee, or the Deputy Director for the Division of Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation, or his or her designee, as appropriate, within 180 days of the effective date of this part, and annually thereafter, and whenever a significant revision to the program has been made.
(b)
Evaluation.
Management of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall evaluate in writing the adequacy and effectiveness of the record retention program at least every two years and provide a copy of the evaluation to the board of directors and the Director.
§ 1235.4
Minimum requirements of a record retention program.
(a)
General minimum requirements.
The record retention program established and maintained by each regulated entity and the Office of Finance under § 1235.3 shall:
(1) Assure that retained records are complete and accurate;
(2) Assure that the form of retained records and the retention period—
(i) Are appropriate to support administrative, business, external and internal audit functions, and litigation of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance; and
(ii) Comply with requirements of applicable laws and regulations, including this part;
(3) Assign in writing the authorities and responsibilities for record retention activities for employees, including line managers and corporate management;
(4) Include policies and procedures concerning record holds, consistent with § 1235.5, and, as appropriate, integrate them with policies and procedures throughout the organization;
(5) Include an accurate, current, and comprehensive record retention schedule that lists records by major categories, subcategories, record type, and retention period, which retention period is appropriate to the specific record and consistent with applicable legal, regulatory, fiscal, operational, and business requirements;
(6) Include appropriate security and internal controls to protect records from unauthorized access and data alteration;
(7) Provide for appropriate back-up and recovery of electronic records to ensure the same accuracy as the primary records;
(8) Provide for a periodic testing of the ability to access records; and
(9) Provide for the proper disposition of records.
(b)
Minimum storage requirements for electronic records.
Electronic records, preferably searchable, must be maintained on immutable, non-rewritable storage in a manner that provides for both ready access by any person who is entitled to access the records, including staff of FHFA, and accurate reproduction for later reference by transmission, printing or other means.
(c)
Communication and training
—(1) The record retention program established and maintained by each regulated entity and the Office of Finance under § 1235.3 shall provide for periodic training and communication throughout the organization.
(2) The record retention program shall:
(i) Provide for communication throughout the organization on record retention policies, procedures, and record retention schedule updates; and
(ii) Provide for training of and notice to all employees on a periodic basis on their record retention responsibilities, including instruction regarding penalties provided by law for the unlawful removal or destruction of records. The record retention program also shall
provide for training for the agents or independent contractors of a regulated entity or the Office of Finance, as appropriate, consistent with their respective roles and responsibilities to the regulated entity or the Office of Finance.
§ 1235.5
Record hold.
(a)
Notification by FHFA.
In the event that FHFA is requiring a record hold, FHFA shall notify the chief executive officer of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance. Regulated entities and the Office of Finance must have a written policy for handling notice of a record hold.
(b)
Notification by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance.
The record retention program of a regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall—
(1) Address how employees and, as appropriate, how agents or independent contractors consistent with their respective roles and responsibilities to the regulated entity or the Office of Finance, will receive prompt notification of a record hold;
(2) Designate an individual to communicate specific requirements and instructions, including, when necessary, the instruction to cease immediately any otherwise permissible destruction of records; and
(3) Provide that any employee and, as appropriate, any agent or independent contractor consistent with his or her respective role and responsibility to the regulated entity or Office of Finance, who has received notice of a potential investigation, enforcement proceeding, or litigation by FHFA involving the regulated entity or the Office of Finance or an employee, or otherwise has actual knowledge that an issue is subject to such an investigation, enforcement proceeding or litigation, shall notify immediately the legal department or the individual providing legal services as well as senior management of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance and shall retain any records that may be relevant in any way to such investigation, enforcement proceeding, or litigation.
(c)
Method of record retention during a record hold.
The record retention program of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall address the method by which the regulated entity or the Office of Finance will retain records during a record hold. Specifically, the program shall describe the method for the continued preservation of electronic records, including e-mail, and, as applicable, the conversion of records from paper to electronic form as well as any alternative storage method.
(d)
Access to and retrieval of records during a record hold.
The record retention program of each regulated entity or the Office of Finance shall ensure access to and retrieval of records by the regulated entity and the Office of Finance, and access, upon request, by FHFA, during a record hold. Such access shall be by reasonable means, consistent with the nature and availability of the records and existing information technology.
§ 1235.6
Access to records.
Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall make its records available promptly upon request by FHFA, at a location and in a form and manner acceptable to FHFA.
§ 1235.7
Supervisory action.
(a)
Supervisory action.
Failure by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance to comply with this part may subject the regulated entity or the Office of Finance or the board members, officers, or employees thereof to supervisory action by FHFA under the Safety and Soundness Act, including but not limited to cease-and-desist proceedings, temporary cease-and-desist proceedings, and civil money penalties.
(b)
No limitation of authority.
This part does not limit or restrict the authority of FHFA to act under its safety and soundness mandate, in accordance with the Safety and Soundness Act. Such authority includes, but is not limited to, conducting examinations, requiring reports and disclosures, and enforcing compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Pt. 1236

# PART 1236—PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
Sec.
1236.1
Purpose.
1236.2
Definitions..
1236.3
Prudential standards as regulations or guidelines.
1236.4
Failure to meet a Standard; corrective plans.
1236.5
Failure to submit a corrective plan; noncompliance.
Appendix to Part 1236—Prudential Management and Operations Standards

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511, 4513(a) and (f), 4513b, and 4526.

# Source:
77 FR 33959, June 8, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1236.1
Purpose.
This part addresses prudential management and operations standards that are required and authorized by 12 U.S.C. 4513b, including the establishment of Standards by Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) and the processes by which FHFA can notify a regulated entity or the Office of Finance of its failure to operate in accordance with a Standard and direct the regulated entity or the Office of Finance to take corrective action. This part further specifies the possible consequences if any regulated entity or the Office of Finance fails to operate in accordance with an applicable Standard or otherwise fails to comply with this part.
[89 FR 3539, Jan. 19, 2024]
§ 1236.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise indicated, terms used in this part have the meanings that they have in part 1201 of this chapter, in the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.,
or in the Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. 1421
et seq.
Extraordinary growth
—(1) For purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4513b(b)(3)(C), means:
(i) With respect to a Bank, growth of non-advance assets in excess of 30 percent over the six calendar quarter period preceding the date on which FHFA notified the Bank that it was required to submit a corrective plan; and
(ii) With respect to an Enterprise, quarterly non-annualized growth of assets in excess of 7.5 percent in any calendar quarter during the six calendar quarter period preceding the date on which FHFA notified the Enterprise that it was required to submit a corrective plan.
(2) For purposes of calculating an increase in assets, assets acquired through merger or acquisition approved by FHFA are not to be included.
Standard(s)
means any one (or more) of the prudential management and operations standards established by the Director pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4513b(a). Standard includes the introductory statement of general responsibilities of boards of directors and senior management of the regulated entities set forth in the appendix to this part.
[77 FR 33959, June 8, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 80 FR 72336, Nov. 19, 2015; 89 FR 3539, Jan. 19, 2024]
§ 1236.3
Prudential standards as regulations or guidelines.
(a)
Form.
As expressly authorized by 12 U.S.C. 4513b(a), FHFA may establish Standards as regulations or guidelines.
(b)
Standards established as guidelines.
Each Standard that has been established as a guideline is located in the appendix to this part. FHFA will provide public notice of, and seek public comment on, any Standard it plans to establish as a guideline, or on any material modification to any Standard established as a guideline. FHFA may revoke any Standard established as a guideline at any time by order or notice. Standards established as guidelines are subject to the remedial provisions of §§ 1236.4 and 1236.5.
(c)
Standards established as regulations.
When establishing a Standard as a regulation or amending such a Standard, FHFA shall follow applicable rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act, 12 U.S.C. 553. Standards established as regulations may be set forth as subparts or provisions of this part; or as other parts or subparts, or as provisions of such other parts or subparts, of this chapter XII of title 12. When not set forth as a subpart of this part, the regulation or any provision thereof that is a Standard shall be identified as a Standard in the body of the regulation. Standards established as regulations are subject to this part, including the remedial provisions of §§ 1236.4 and 1236.5, and to the enforcement provisions of 12 U.S.C. chapter 46, subchapter III.
(d)
Conflicts.
In the case of a direct conflict between a Standard established as a guideline and any FHFA regulation, when it is not possible to comply with both that Standard and the FHFA regulation, the FHFA regulation shall control.
[89 FR 3539, Jan. 19, 2024]
§ 1236.4
Failure to meet a Standard; corrective plans.
(a)
Determination.
FHFA may determine, based upon an examination, inspection, or any other information, that a regulated entity or the Office of Finance has failed to meet one or more of the Standards. Failure to meet any Standard may constitute an unsafe and unsound practice for purposes of the enforcement provisions of 12 U.S.C. chapter 46, subchapter III.
(b)
Submission of corrective plan.
When a regulated entity or the Office of Finance is required to submit a corrective plan, FHFA shall inform the regulated entity or the Office of Finance of that requirement by written notice, which shall also set forth FHFA's determination that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has failed a particular Standard or Standards. FHFA shall require a regulated entity or the Office of Finance to submit a corrective plan if FHFA determines that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has failed to meet a Standard established as a regulation. FHFA may require a regulated entity or the Office of Finance to submit a corrective plan for failure to meet a Standard established as a guideline.
(c)
Corrective plans
—(1)
Contents of plan.
A corrective plan shall be in writing and shall describe the actions the regulated entity or the Office of Finance will take to correct its failure(s) as determined by FHFA, and the time within which each action will be taken.
(2)
Filing deadline
—(i)
In general.
A regulated entity or the Office of Finance must file a corrective plan with FHFA within thirty (30) calendar days of being notified by FHFA of the requirement to file a corrective plan, unless FHFA notifies the regulated entity or the Office of Finance in writing that the plan must be filed within a different time period.
(ii)
Other plans or submissions.
If a regulated entity must file a capital restoration plan submitted pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4622, it may submit the corrective plan required under this section as part of the capital restoration plan, subject to the deadline established in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. If a regulated entity or the Office of Finance is operating under a cease-and-desist order entered into pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4631 or 4632, or a formal or informal agreement, or must file a response to a report of examination or report of inspection, it may, with the permission of FHFA, submit the corrective plan required under this section as part of its compliance with that order, agreement, or response, subject to the deadline established in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, but the corrective plan would not become a part of the order, agreement, or response. FHFA may also permit a regulated entity or the Office of Finance to submit a corrective plan required under this section as part of another type of required plan or submission by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance, as deemed appropriate by FHFA.
(d)
Amendment of corrective plan.
A regulated entity or the Office of Finance that is operating in accordance with an approved corrective plan may submit a written request to FHFA to amend the plan as necessary to reflect any changes in circumstance. Until such time that FHFA approves a proposed amendment, the regulated entity or the Office of Finance must continue to operate in accordance with the terms of the corrective plan as previously approved.
(e)
Review of corrective plans and amendments.
Within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving a corrective plan or proposed amendment to a plan, FHFA will notify the regulated entity or the Office of Finance in writing of its decision on the plan, will direct the regulated entity to submit additional information, or will notify the regulated entity in writing of any extended deadline for review that FHFA has established.
[89 FR 3539, Jan. 19, 2024]
§ 1236.5
Failure to submit a corrective plan; noncompliance.
(a)
Remedies.
If a regulated entity or the Office of Finance fails to submit an acceptable corrective plan under § 1236.4(b), or fails in any material respect to implement or otherwise comply with an approved corrective plan, FHFA shall order the regulated entity or the Office of Finance to correct that deficiency, and may:
(1) Prohibit the regulated entity from increasing its average total assets, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4516(b)(4), for any calendar quarter over its average total assets for the preceding calendar quarter, or may otherwise restrict the rate at which the average total assets of the regulated entity may increase from one calendar quarter to another;
(2) Prohibit the regulated entity from paying dividends;
(3) Prohibit the regulated entity from redeeming or repurchasing capital stock;
(4) Require the regulated entity to maintain or increase its level of retained earnings;
(5) Require an Enterprise to increase its ratio of core capital to assets, or require a Bank to increase its ratio of total capital, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1426(a)(5), to assets; or
(6) Require the regulated entity or the Office of Finance to take any other action that the Director determines will better carry out the purposes of the statute by bringing the regulated entity or the Office of Finance into conformance with the Standards.
(b)
Extraordinary growth.
If a regulated entity that has failed to submit an acceptable corrective plan or has failed in any material respect to implement or otherwise comply with an approved corrective plan, also has experienced extraordinary growth, FHFA shall impose at least one of the sanctions listed in paragraph (a) of this section, consistently with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 4513b(b)(3).
(c)
Orders
—(1)
Notice.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, FHFA will notify a regulated entity or the Office of Finance in writing of FHFA's intent to issue an order requiring the regulated entity or the Office of Finance to correct its failure to submit a corrective plan or its failure in any material respect to implement or otherwise comply with an approved corrective plan. Any such notice will include:
(i) A statement that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has failed to submit a corrective plan under § 1236.4, or has not implemented or otherwise has not complied in any material respect with an approved plan;
(ii) A description of any sanctions that FHFA intends to impose and, in the case of the mandatory sanctions required by 12 U.S.C. 4513b(b)(3), a statement that FHFA believes that the regulated entity has experienced extraordinary growth; and
(iii) The proposed date when any sanctions would become effective or the proposed date for completion of any required actions.
(2)
Response to notice.
A regulated entity or the Office of Finance may file a written response to a notice of intent to issue an order, which must be delivered to FHFA within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date of the notice, unless FHFA determines that a different time period is appropriate in light of the safety and soundness of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance or other relevant circumstances. The response should include:
(i) An explanation of why the regulated entity or the Office of Finance believes that the action proposed by FHFA is not an appropriate exercise of discretion;
(ii) Any recommended modification of the proposed order; and
(iii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation or other evidence in support of the position of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance regarding the proposed order.
(3)
Failure to file response.
The failure of a regulated entity or the Office of Finance to file a written response within the specified time period will constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and will constitute consent to issuance of the order.
(4)
Immediate issuance of final order.
FHFA may issue an order requiring a regulated entity or the Office of Finance immediately to take actions to correct a Standards deficiency or to
take or refrain from taking other actions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the issuance of an order under this paragraph, or other time period specified by FHFA, a regulated entity or the Office of Finance may submit a written appeal of the order to FHFA. FHFA will respond in writing to a timely filed appeal within sixty (60) days after receiving the appeal. During this period, the order will remain in effect unless FHFA stays the effectiveness of the order.
(d)
Request for modification or rescission of order.
A regulated entity or the Office of Finance subject to an order under this part may submit a written request to FHFA for an amendment to the order to reflect a change in circumstance. Unless otherwise ordered by FHFA, the order shall continue in place while such a request is pending before FHFA.
(e)
Agency review and determination.
FHFA will respond in writing within thirty (30) days after receiving a response or amendment request, unless FHFA notifies the regulated entity or the Office of Finance in writing that it will respond within a different time period. After considering the response or amendment request from a regulated entity or the Office of Finance, FHFA may:
(1) Issue the order as proposed or in modified form;
(2) Determine not to issue the order and instead issue a different order; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response from the regulated entity, or any other relevant source.
[77 FR 33959, June 8, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 3540, Jan. 19, 2024]
Pt. 1236, App.

# Appendix to Part 1236—Prudential Management and Operations Standards
The following provisions constitute the prudential management and operations standards established as guidelines pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4513b(a). The General Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Standards 1, 2, 8, and 10 apply to the Office of Finance as appropriate.

# General Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
The following provisions address the general responsibilities of the boards of directors and senior management of the regulated entities as they relate to the matters addressed by each of the Standards, and the general responsibilities of the board of directors and senior management of the Office of Finance to the extent a particular Standard is applicable to the Office of Finance. The descriptions are not a comprehensive listing of the responsibilities of either the boards or senior management, each of whom have additional duties and responsibilities to those described in these Standards.

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
1. With respect to the subject matter addressed by each applicable Standard, the board of directors of each regulated entity and of the Office of Finance is responsible for adopting business strategies and policies that are appropriate for the particular subject matter. The board should review all such strategies and policies periodically. It should review and approve all major strategies and policies at least annually and make any revisions that are necessary to ensure that such strategies and policies remain consistent with the overall business plan of the entity or the Office of Finance.
2. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing management of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance, which includes ensuring that management includes personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to oversee the operation of the regulated entity and the Office of Finance as it relates to the functions and requirements addressed by each applicable Standard, and that management implements the policies set forth by the board.
3. The board of directors is responsible for remaining informed about the operations and condition of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance, including operating consistently with the applicable Standards, and senior management's implementation of the strategies and policies established by the board of directors.
4. The board of directors must remain sufficiently informed about the nature and level of the regulated overall risk exposures of the entity or the Office of Finance, including, as applicable, market, credit, operational, and counterparty risk, so that it can understand the possible short- and long-term effects of those exposures on the financial health of the regulated entity, including the possible short- and long-term consequences, as applicable, to earnings, liquidity, and economic value. The board of directors should: establish the risk tolerances of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance and provide management with clear guidance regarding the
level of acceptable risks; review the entire risk management framework of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance, including policies and entity-wide risk limits at least annually; oversee the adequacy of the actions taken by senior management to identify, measure, manage, and control the risk exposures of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance; and ensure that management takes appropriate corrective measures whenever risk limit violations or breaches occur.

# Responsibilities of Senior Management
5. With respect to the subject matter addressed by each applicable Standard, senior management is responsible for developing the policies, procedures and practices that are necessary to implement the business strategies and policies adopted by the board of directors. Senior management should ensure that such items are clearly written, sufficiently detailed, and are followed by all personnel. Senior management also should ensure that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to carry out their respective functions and that all delegated responsibilities are performed.
6. Senior management should ensure that the regulated entity or the Office of Finance has adequate resources, systems, and controls available to execute effectively the business strategies, policies, and procedures of the entity or the Office of Finance, including operating consistently with each of the applicable Standards.
7. Senior management should provide the board of directors with periodic reports relating to the condition and performance of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance, including the subject matter addressed by each of the applicable Standards, that are sufficiently detailed to allow the board of directors to remain fully informed about the business of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance.
8. Senior management should regularly review and discuss with the board of directors information regarding the risk exposures of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance that is sufficient in detail and timeliness to permit the board of directors to understand and assess the performance of management in identifying and managing the various risks to which the regulated entity or the Office of Finance is exposed.

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
9. The board of directors and senior management should conduct themselves in such a manner as to promote high ethical standards and a culture of compliance throughout the organization.
10. The board of directors and senior management should ensure that the overall risk profile of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance is aligned with its mission objectives.

# Standard 1—Internal Controls and Information Systems

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
1. Regarding internal controls and information systems, the board of directors of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should adopt appropriate policies, ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent, approve and periodically review overall business strategies, approve the organizational structure, and assess the adequacy of senior management's oversight of this function.

# Responsibilities of Senior Management
2. Regarding internal controls and information systems, senior management should implement strategies and policies approved by the board of directors, establish appropriate policies, monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of this function, and ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent. The organizational structure should clearly assign responsibility, authority, and reporting relationships.

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
3. Regarding internal controls and information systems, both the board of directors and senior management should promote high ethical standards, create a culture that emphasizes the importance of this function, and promptly address any issues in need of remediation.

# Framework
4. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an adequate and effective system of internal controls, which should include a board approved organizational structure that clearly assigns responsibilities, authority, and reporting relationships, and establishes an appropriate segregation of duties that ensures that personnel are not assigned conflicting responsibilities.
5. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should establish appropriate internal control policies and should monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of its internal controls and information systems on an ongoing basis through a formal self-assessment process.
6. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an organizational culture that emphasizes and demonstrates to personnel at all levels the importance of internal controls.
7. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should address promptly any violations, findings, weaknesses, deficiencies, and other issues in need of remediation relating to the internal control systems.

# Risk Recognition and Assessment
8. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an effective risk assessment process that ensures that management recognizes and continually assesses all material risks, including credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk.

# Control Activities and Segregation of Duties
9. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an effective internal control system that defines control activities at every business level.
10. The control activities of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should include:
a. Board of directors and senior management reviews of progress toward goals and objectives;
b. Appropriate activity controls for each business unit;
c. Physical controls to protect property and other assets and limit access to property and systems;
d. Procedures for monitoring compliance with exposure limits and follow-up on non-compliance;
e. A system of approvals and authorizations for transactions over certain limits; and
f. A system for verification and reconciliation of transactions.

# Information and Communication
11. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have information systems that provide relevant, accurate and timely information and data.
12. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have secure information systems that are supported by adequate contingency arrangements.
13. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have effective channels of communication to ensure that all personnel understand and adhere to policies and procedures affecting their duties and responsibilities.

# Monitoring Activities and Correcting Deficiencies
14. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should monitor the overall effectiveness of its internal controls and key risks on an ongoing basis and ensure that business units and internal and external audit conduct periodic evaluations.
15. Internal control deficiencies should be reported to senior management and the board of directors on a timely basis and addressed promptly.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
16. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing internal controls and information systems.

# Standard 2—Independence and Adequacy of Internal Audit Systems

# Audit Committee
1. The board of directors of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an audit committee that exercises proper oversight and adopts appropriate policies and procedures designed to ensure the independence of the internal audit function. The audit committee should ensure that the internal audit department includes personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to oversee the internal audit function.
2. The board of directors should review and approve the audit committee charter at least every three years.
3. The audit committee of the board of directors is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal audit function of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance.
4. Issues reported by the internal audit department to the audit committee should be promptly addressed and satisfactorily resolved.

# Internal Audit Function
5. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an internal audit function that provides for adequate testing of the system of internal controls.
6. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have an independent and objective internal audit department that reports directly to the audit committee of the board of directors.
7. The internal audit department of each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should be adequately staffed with properly trained and competent personnel.
8. The internal audit department should conduct risk-based audits.
9. The internal audit department should conduct adequate testing and review of internal control and information systems.
10. The internal audit department should determine whether violations, findings, weaknesses and other issues reported by regulators, external auditors, and others have been promptly addressed.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
11. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the independence and adequacy of internal audit systems.

# Standard 3—Management of Market Risk Exposure

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
1. Regarding the overall management of market risk exposure, the board of directors should remain sufficiently informed about the nature and level of the regulated entity's market risk exposures. At least annually, the board should review the entire market risk framework, including policies and risk limits, and provide an assessment of compliance.
2. Regarding the policies, practices and procedures surrounding the management of market risk, the board of directors should approve all major strategies and policies relating to the management of market risk, ensure all major strategies and policies are consistent with the overall business plan, establish and communicate a market risk tolerance, and ensure appropriate corrective measures are taken when market risk limit violations or breaches occur.
3. The board, or a board appointed committee, should oversee the adequacy of actions taken by senior management to identify, measure, manage, and control market risk exposures, ensure market risk policies establish lines of authority and responsibility, and review risk exposures on a periodic basis.

# Responsibilities of Senior Management
4. Regarding the overall management of market risk exposure, senior management should provide sufficient and timely information to the board of directors, ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent, ensure adequate systems and resources are available to manage and control market risk, report any breaches to the board of directors (or the appropriate board committee), and take appropriate remedial action.
5. Regarding the policies, practices, and procedures surrounding market risk exposure, senior management should ensure market risk policies and procedures are clearly written, sufficiently detailed, and followed. Approved policies and procedures should include clear market risk limits and lines of authority for managing market risk.

# Market Risk Strategy
6. A regulated entity should have a clearly defined and well-documented strategy for managing market risk, which must be consistent with its overall business plan, must enable the regulated entity to identify, manage, monitor, and control the regulated entity's risk exposures on a business unit and an enterprise-wide basis, and must ensure that the lines of authority and responsibility for managing market risk and monitoring market risk limits are clearly identified. The strategy should specify a target account, or target accounts, for managing market risk (
e.g.,
specify whether the objective is to control risk to earnings, net portfolio value, or some other target, or some combination of targets), and, if a market risk limit is breached, should require that the breach be reported to the board of directors, or the appropriate board committee, and that appropriate remedial action, including any ordered by the board of directors, should be taken.
7. Management should ensure that the board of directors is made aware of the advantages and disadvantages of the regulated entity's chosen market risk management strategy, as well as those of alternative strategies, so that the board of directors can make an informed judgment about the relative efficacy of the different strategies.
8. A Bank's strategy for managing market risk should take into account the importance of maintaining the market value of equity of member stock commensurate with the par value of that stock so that the Bank is able to redeem and repurchase member stock at par value.
9. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the independence and adequacy of the management of market risk exposure.

# Standard 4—Management of Market Risk—Measurement Systems, Risk Limits, Stress Testing, and Monitoring and Reporting

# Risk Measurement Systems
1. A regulated entity should have a risk measurement system (a model or models) that capture(s) all material sources of market risk and provide(s) meaningful and timely measures of the regulated entity's risk exposures, as well as personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to operate and oversee the risk measurement system.
2. The risk measurement system should be capable of estimating the effect of changes in interest rates and other key risk factors on the regulated entity's earnings and market value of equity over a range of scenarios.
3. The measurement system should be capable of valuing all financial assets and liabilities in the regulated entity's portfolio.
4. The measurement system should address all material sources of market risk including repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis risk, and options risk.
5. Management should ensure the integrity and timeliness of the data inputs used to measure the regulated entity's market risk
exposures, and should ensure that assumptions and parameters are reasonable and properly documented.
6. The measurement system's methodologies, assumptions, and parameters should be thoroughly documented, understood by management, and reviewed on a regular basis.
7. A regulated entity's market risk model should be upgraded periodically to incorporate advances in risk modeling technology.
8. A regulated entity should have a documented approval process for model changes that requires model changes to be authorized by a party independent of the party making the change.
9. A regulated entity should ensure that its models are independently validated on a regular basis.

# Risk Limits
10. Risk limits should be consistent with the regulated entity's strategy for managing interest rate risk and should take into account the financial condition of the regulated entity, including its capital position.
11. Risk limits should address the potential impact of changes in market interest rates on net interest income, net income, and the regulated entity's market value of equity.

# Stress Testing
12. A regulated entity should conduct stress tests on a regular basis for a variety of institution-specific and market-wide stress scenarios to identify potential vulnerabilities and to ensure that exposures are consistent with the regulated entity's tolerance for risk.
13. A regulated entity should use stress test outcomes to adjust its market risk management strategies, policies, and positions and to develop effective contingency plans.
14. Special consideration should be given to ensuring that complex financial instruments, including instruments with complex option features, are properly valued under stress scenarios and that the risks associated with options exposures are properly understood.
15. Management should ensure that the regulated entity's board of directors or a committee thereof considers the results of stress tests when establishing and reviewing its strategies, policies, and limits for managing and controlling interest rate risk.
16. The board of directors and senior management should review periodically the design of stress tests to ensure that they encompass the kinds of market conditions under which the regulated entity's positions and strategies would be most vulnerable.

# Monitoring and Reporting
17. A regulated entity should have an adequate management information system for reporting market risk exposures.
18. The board of directors, senior management, and the appropriate line managers should be provided with regular, accurate, informative, and timely market risk reports.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
19. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the management of market risk.

# Standard 5—Adequacy and Maintenance of Liquidity and Reserves

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
1. Regarding the adequacy and maintenance of liquidity and reserves, the board of directors should review (at least annually) all major strategies and policies governing this area, approve appropriate revisions to such strategies and policies, and ensure senior management are appropriately trained to effectively manage liquidity.

# Responsibilities of Senior Management
2. Regarding the adequacy and maintenance of liquidity and reserves, senior management should develop strategies, policies, and practices to manage liquidity risk, ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent, and provide the board of directors with periodic reports on the regulated entity's liquidity position.

# Policies, Practices, and Procedures
3. A regulated entity should establish a liquidity management framework that ensures it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a range of stressful events.
4. A regulated entity should articulate a liquidity risk tolerance that is appropriate for its business strategy and its mission goals and objectives.
5. A regulated entity should have a sound process for identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling, and reporting its liquidity position and its liquidity risk exposures.
6. A regulated entity should establish a funding strategy that provides effective diversification in the sources and tenor of funding.
7. A regulated entity should conduct stress tests on a regular basis for a variety of institution-specific and market-wide stress scenarios to identify sources of potential liquidity strain and to ensure that current exposures remain in accordance with each regulated entity's established liquidity risk tolerance.
8. A regulated entity should use stress test outcomes to adjust its liquidity management
strategies, policies, and positions and to develop effective contingency plans.
9. A regulated entity should have a formal contingency funding plan that clearly sets out the strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergencies. Where practical, contingent funding sources should be tested or drawn on periodically to assess their reliability and operational soundness.
10. A regulated entity should maintain adequate reserves of liquid assets, including adequate reserves of unencumbered, marketable securities that can be liquidated to meet unexpected needs.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
11. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the adequacy and maintenance of liquidity and reserves.

# Standard 6—Management of Asset and Investment Portfolio Growth

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
1. Regarding the management of asset and investment portfolio growth, the board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of growth in these areas, ensuring senior management are appropriately trained and competent, establishing policies governing the regulated entity's assets and investment growth, with prudential limits on the growth of mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, and reviewing policies at least annually.
2. Regarding the management of asset and investment portfolio growth, senior management should adhere to board-approved policies governing growth in these areas, and ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent to manage the growth.

# Risk Measurement, Monitoring, and Control
3. A regulated entity should manage its asset growth and investment growth in a prudent manner that is consistent with the regulated entity's business strategy, board-approved policies, risk tolerances, and safe and sound operations, and should establish prudential limits on the growth of its portfolios of mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities.
4. A regulated entity should manage asset growth and investment growth in a way that is compatible with mission goals and objectives.
5. A regulated entity should manage investments and acquisition of assets in a way that complies with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins).

# Standard 7—Investments and Acquisitions of Assets

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
1. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing the regulated entity's investments and acquisition of other assets, ensuring senior management are appropriately trained and competent, and establishing, approving and periodically reviewing policies and procedures governing investments and acquisitions of other assets.

# Policies, Practices, and Procedures
2. A regulated entity should have a board-approved investment policy that establishes clear and explicit guidelines that are appropriate to the regulated entity's mission and objectives. The investment policy should establish the regulated entity's investment objectives, risk tolerances, investment constraints, and policies and procedures for selecting investments.
3. A regulated entity should have a board-approved policy governing acquisitions of major categories of assets other than investments. The policy should establish clear and explicit guidelines for asset acquisitions that are appropriate to the regulated entity's mission and objectives.
4. A regulated entity should manage investments and acquisitions of assets prudently and in a manner that is consistent with mission goals and objectives.
5. Each Bank's investment policies and acquisition of assets should take into account the importance of maintaining the market value of member stock commensurate with the par value of that stock so that the Bank is able to redeem and repurchase member stock at par value at all times.
6. A regulated entity should manage investments and acquisitions of assets in a way that complies with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins).

# Standard 8—Overall Risk Management Processes

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
1. Regarding overall risk management processes, the board of directors is responsible for overseeing the process, ensuring senior management are appropriately trained and competent, ensuring processes are in place to identify, manage, monitor and control risk exposures (this function may be delegated to a board appointed committee), approving all major risk limits, and ensuring incentive compensation measures for senior management capture a full range of risks to the regulated entity or the Office of Finance.

# Responsibilities of the Board and Senior Management
2. Regarding overall risk management processes, the board of directors and senior management should establish and sustain a culture that promotes effective risk management. This culture includes timely, accurate and informative risk reports, alignment of the overall risk profile of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance with its mission objectives, and the annual review of comprehensive self-assessments of material risks.

# Independent Risk Management Function
3. A regulated entity or the Office of Finance should have an independent risk management function, or unit, with responsibility for risk measurement and risk monitoring, including monitoring and enforcement of risk limits.
4. The chief risk officer should head the risk management function.
5. The chief risk officer should report directly to the chief executive officer and the risk committee of the board of directors.
6. The risk management function should have adequate resources, including a well-trained and capable staff.

# Risk Measurement, Monitoring, and Control
7. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should measure, monitor, and control its overall risk exposures, reviewing, as applicable, market, credit, liquidity, and operational risk exposures on both a business unit (or business segment) and enterprise-wide basis.
8. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have the risk management systems to generate, at an appropriate frequency, the information needed to manage risk. As applicable, such systems should include systems for market, credit, operational, and liquidity risk analysis, asset and liability management, regulatory reporting, and performance measurement.
9. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have a comprehensive set of risk limits and monitoring procedures to ensure that risk exposures remain within established risk limits, and a mechanism for reporting violations and breaches of risk limits to senior management and the board of directors.
10. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should ensure that it has sufficient controls around risk measurement models to ensure the completeness, accuracy, and timeliness of risk information.
11. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have adequate and well-tested disaster recovery and business resumption plans for all major systems and have remote facilitates to limit the impact of disruptive events.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
12. As applicable, each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the management of risk.

# Standard 9—Management of Credit and Counterparty Risk

# Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
1. Regarding the management of credit and counterparty risk, the board of directors and senior management are responsible for ensuring that the regulated entity has appropriate policies, procedures, and systems that cover all aspects of credit administration, including credit pricing, underwriting, credit limits, collateral standards, and collateral valuation procedures. This should also include derivatives and the use of clearing houses. They are also responsible for ensuring personnel are appropriately trained, competent, and equipped with the necessary tools, procedures and systems to assess risk.
2. Senior management should provide the board of directors with regular briefings and reports on credit exposures.

# Policies, Procedures, Controls, and Systems
3. A regulated entity should have policies that limit concentrations of credit risk and systems to identify concentrations of credit risk.
4. A regulated entity should establish prudential limits to restrict exposures to a single counterparty that are appropriate to its business model.
5. A regulated entity should establish prudential limits to restrict exposures to groups of related counterparties that are appropriate to its business model.
6. A regulated entity should have policies, procedures, and systems for evaluating credit risk that will enable it to make informed credit decisions.
7. A regulated entity should have policies, procedures, and systems for evaluating credit risk that will enable it to ensure that claims are legally enforceable.
8. A regulated entity should have policies and procedures for addressing problem credits.
9. A regulated entity should have an ongoing credit review program that includes stress testing and scenario analysis.

# Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Policies
10. A regulated entity should manage credit and counterparty risk in a way that complies with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins).

# Standard 10—Maintenance of Adequate Records
1. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should maintain financial records in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), FHFA guidelines, and applicable laws and regulations.
2. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should ensure that assets are safeguarded and financial and operational information is timely and reliable.
3. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should have a records retention program consistent with laws and corporate policies, including accounting policies, as well as personnel that are appropriately trained and competent to oversee and implement the records management plan.
4. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance, with oversight from its board of directors, should conduct a review and approval of the records retention program and records retention schedule for all types of records at least once every two years.
5. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should ensure that reporting errors are detected and corrected in a timely manner.
6. Each regulated entity and the Office of Finance should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (
e.g.,
advisory bulletins) governing the maintenance of adequate records.
[77 FR 33959, June 8, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 72336, Nov. 19, 2015; 89 FR 3540, Jan. 19, 2024]
Pt. 1237

# PART 1237—CONSERVATORSHIP AND RECEIVERSHIP
Sec.
1237.1
Purpose and applicability.
1237.2
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Powers
1237.3
Powers of the Agency as conservator or receiver.
1237.4
Receivership following conservatorship; administrative expenses.
1237.5
Contracts entered into before appointment of a conservator or receiver.
1237.6
Authority to enforce contracts.

# Subpart B—Claims
1237.7
Period for determination of claims.
1237.8
Alternate procedures for determination of claims.
1237.9
Priority of expenses and unsecured claims.

# Subpart C—Limited-Life Regulated Entities
1237.10
Limited-life regulated entities.
1237.11
Authority of limited-life regulated entities to obtain credit.

# Subpart D—Other
1237.12
Capital distributions while in conservatorship.
1237.13
Payment of Securities Litigation Claims while in conservatorship.
1237.14
Golden parachute payments [Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4513b, 4526, 4617.

# Source:
76 FR 35733, June 20, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1237.1
Purpose and applicability.
The provisions of this part shall apply to the appointment and operations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“Agency”) as conservator or receiver of a regulated entity. These provisions implement and supplement the procedures and process set forth in the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended, by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA), Public Law 110-289 for conduct of a conservatorship or receivership of such entity.
§ 1237.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part the following definitions shall apply:
Agency
means the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) established under 12 U.S.C. 4511, as amended.
Authorizing statutes
mean—
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act,
(2) The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, and
(3) The Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
Capital distribution
has, with respect to a Bank, the definition stated in § 1229.1 of this chapter, and with respect to an Enterprise, the definition stated in § 1229.13 of this chapter.
Compensation
means any payment of money or the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection with employment.
Conservator
means the Agency as appointed by the Director as conservator for a regulated entity.
Default; in danger of default:
(1)
Default
means, with respect to a regulated entity, any official determination by the Director, pursuant to
which a conservator or receiver is appointed for a regulated entity.
(2)
In danger of default
means, with respect to a regulated entity, the definition under section 1303(8)(B) of the Safety and Soundness Act or applicable FHFA regulations.
Entity-affiliated party
means any party meeting the definition of an entity-affiliated party under section 1303(11) of the Safety and Soundness Act or applicable FHFA regulations.
Equity security
of any person shall mean any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase or otherwise acquire, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests (however designated) in equity, ownership or profits of such person, including any preferred stock, any limited or general partnership interest and any limited liability company membership interest, and any securities or other rights or interests convertible into or exchangeable for any of the foregoing.
Executive officer
means, with respect to an Enterprise, any person meeting the definition of executive officer under section 1303(12) of the Safety and Soundness Act and applicable FHFA regulations under that section, and, with respect to a Bank, an executive officer as defined in applicable FHFA regulations.
Golden parachute payment
means, with respect to a regulated entity, the definition under 12 CFR part 1231 or other applicable FHFA regulations.
Limited-life regulated entity
means an entity established by the Agency under section 1367(i) of the Safety and Soundness Act with respect to a Federal Home Loan Bank in default or in danger of default, or with respect to an Enterprise in default or in danger of default.
Receiver
means the Agency as appointed by the Director to act as receiver for a regulated entity.
Securities litigation claim
means any claim, whether or not reduced to judgment, liquidated or unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed or undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, arising from rescission of a purchase or sale of an equity security of a regulated entity or for damages arising from the purchase, sale, or retention of such a security.
Transfer
means every mode, direct or indirect, absolute or conditional, voluntary or involuntary, of disposing of or parting with property or with an interest in property, including retention of title as a security interest and foreclosure of the equity of redemption of the regulated entity.
[76 FR 35733, June 20, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 80 FR 72336, Oct. 22, 2015]

# Subpart A—Powers
§ 1237.3
Powers of the Agency as conservator or receiver.
(a)
Operation of the regulated entity.
The Agency, as it determines appropriate to its operations as either conservator or receiver, may:
(1) Take over the assets of and operate the regulated entity with all the powers of the shareholders (including the authority to vote shares of any and all classes of voting stock), the directors, and the officers of the regulated entity and conduct all business of the regulated entity;
(2) Continue the missions of the regulated entity;
(3) Ensure that the operations and activities of each regulated entity foster liquid, efficient, competitive, and resilient national housing finance markets;
(4) Ensure that each regulated entity operates in a safe and sound manner;
(5) Collect all obligations and money due the regulated entity;
(6) Perform all functions of the regulated entity in the name of the regulated entity that are consistent with the appointment as conservator or receiver;
(7) Preserve and conserve the assets and property of the regulated entity (including the exclusive authority to investigate and prosecute claims of any type on behalf of the regulated entity, or to delegate to management of the regulated entity the authority to investigate and prosecute claims); and
(8) Provide by contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action, or duty of the Agency as conservator or receiver.
(b)
Agency as receiver.
The Agency, as receiver, shall place the regulated entity in liquidation, employing the additional powers expressed in 12 U.S.C. 4617(b)(2)(E).
(c)
Powers as conservator or receiver.
The Agency, as conservator or receiver, shall have all powers and authorities specifically provided by section 1367 of the Safety and Soundness Act and paragraph (a) of this section, including incidental powers, which include the authority to suspend capital classifications under section 1364(e)(1) of the Safety and Soundness Act during the duration of the conservatorship or receivership of that regulated entity.
(d)
Transfer or sale of assets and liabilities.
The Agency may, as conservator or receiver, transfer or sell any asset or liability of the regulated entity in default, and may do so without any approval, assignment, or consent with respect to such transfer or sale. Exercise of this authority by the Agency as conservator will nullify any restraints on sales or transfers in any agreement not entered into by the Agency as conservator. Exercise of this authority by the Agency as receiver will nullify any restraints on sales or transfers in any agreement not entered into by the Agency as receiver.
§ 1237.4
Receivership following conservatorship; administrative expenses.
If a receivership immediately succeeds a conservatorship, the administrative expenses of the conservatorship shall also be deemed to be administrative expenses of the subsequent receivership.
§ 1237.5
Contracts entered into before appointment of a conservator or receiver.
(a) The conservator or receiver for any regulated entity may disaffirm or repudiate any contract or lease to which such regulated entity is a party pursuant to section 1367(d) of the Safety and Soundness Act.
(b) For purposes of section 1367(d)(2) of the Safety and Soundness Act, a reasonable period shall be defined as a period of 18 months following the appointment of a conservator or receiver.
§ 1237.6
Authority to enforce contracts.
The conservator or receiver may enforce any contract entered into by the regulated entity pursuant to the provisions and subject to the restrictions of section 1367(d)(13) of the Safety and Soundness Act.

# Subpart B—Claims
§ 1237.7
Period for determination of claims.
Before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which any claim against a regulated entity is filed with the Agency as receiver, the Agency shall determine whether to allow or disallow the claim and shall notify the claimant of any determination with respect to such claim. This period may be extended by a written agreement between the claimant and the Agency as receiver, which may include an agreement to toll any applicable statute of limitations.
§ 1237.8
Alternate procedures for determination of claims.
Claimants seeking a review of the determination of claims may seek alternative dispute resolution from the Agency as receiver in lieu of a judicial determination. The Director may by order, policy statement, or directive establish alternative dispute resolution procedures for this purpose.
§ 1237.9
Priority of expenses and unsecured claims.
(a)
General.
The receiver will grant priority to unsecured claims against a regulated entity or the receiver for that regulated entity that are proven to the satisfaction of the receiver in the following order:
(1) Administrative expenses of the receiver (or an immediately preceding conservator).
(2) Any other general or senior liability of the regulated entity (that is not a liability described under paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section).
(3) Any obligation subordinated to general creditors (that is not an obligation described under paragraph (a)(4) of this section).
(4) Any claim by current or former shareholders or members arising as a
result of their current or former status as shareholders or members, including, without limitation, any securities litigation claim. Within this priority level, the receiver shall recognize the priorities of shareholder claims
inter se,
such as that preferred shareholder claims are prior to common shareholder claims. This subparagraph (a)(4) shall not apply to any claim by a current or former member of a Federal Home Loan Bank that arises from transactions or relationships distinct from the current or former member's ownership, purchase, sale, or retention of an equity security of the Federal Home Loan Bank.
(b)
Similarly situated creditors.
All claimants that are similarly situated shall be treated in a similar manner, except that the receiver may take any action (including making payments) that does not comply with this section, if:
(1) The Director determines that such action is necessary to maximize the value of the assets of the regulated entity, to maximize the present value return from the sale or other disposition of the assets of the regulated entity, or to minimize the amount of any loss realized upon the sale or other disposition of the assets of the regulated entity; and
(2) All claimants that are similarly situated under paragraph (a) of this section receive not less than the amount such claimants would have received if the receiver liquidated the assets and liabilities of the regulated entity in receivership and such action had not been taken.
(c)
Priority determined at default.
The receiver will determine priority based on a claim's status at the time of default, such default having occurred at the time of entry into the receivership, or if a conservatorship immediately preceded the receivership, at the time of entry into the conservatorship provided the claim then existed.

# Subpart C—Limited-Life Regulated Entities
§ 1237.10
Limited-life regulated entities.
(a)
Status.
The United States Government shall be considered a person for purposes of section 1367(i)(6)(C)(i) of the Safety and Soundness Act.
(b)
Investment authority.
The requirements of section 1367(i)(4) shall apply only to the liquidity portfolio of a limited-life regulated entity.
(c)
Policies and procedures.
The Agency may draft such policies and procedures with respect to limited-life regulated entities as it determines to be necessary and appropriate, including policies and procedures regarding the timing of the creation of limited-life regulated entities.
§ 1237.11
Authority of limited-life regulated entities to obtain credit.
(a)
Ability to obtain credit.
A limited-life regulated entity may obtain unsecured credit and issue unsecured debt.
(b)
Inability to obtain credit.
If a limited-life regulated entity is unable to obtain unsecured credit or issue unsecured debt, the Director may authorize the obtaining of credit or the issuance of debt by the limited-life regulated entity with priority over any and all of the obligations of the limited-life regulated entity, secured by a lien on property of the limited-life regulated entity that is not otherwise subject to a lien, or secured by a junior lien on property of the limited-life regulated entity that is subject to a lien.
(c)
Limitations.
The Director, after notice and a hearing, may authorize a limited-life regulated entity to obtain credit or issue debt that is secured by a senior or equal lien on property of the limited-life regulated entity that is already subject to a lien (other than mortgages that collateralize the mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by an Enterprise) only if the limited-life regulated entity is unable to obtain such credit or issue such debt otherwise on commercially reasonable terms and there is adequate protection of the interest of the holder of the earlier lien on the property with respect to which such senior or equal lien is proposed to be granted.
(d)
Adequate protection.
The adequate protection referred to in paragraph (c) of this section may be provided by:
(1) Requiring the limited-life regulated entity to make a cash payment or periodic cash payments to the holder of the earlier lien, to the extent that
there is likely to be a decrease in the value of such holder's interest in the property subject to the lien;
(2) Providing to the holder of the earlier lien an additional or replacement lien to the extent that there is likely to be a decrease in the value of such holder's interest in the property subject to the lien; or
(3) Granting the holder of the earlier lien such other relief, other than entitling such holder to compensation allowable as an administrative expense under section 1367(c) of the Safety and Soundness Act, as will result in the realization by such holder of the equivalent of such holder's interest in such property.

# Subpart D—Other
§ 1237.12
Capital distributions while in conservatorship.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a regulated entity shall make no capital distribution while in conservatorship.
(b) The Director may authorize, or may delegate the authority to authorize, a capital distribution that would otherwise be prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section if he or she determines that such capital distribution:
(1) Will enhance the ability of the regulated entity to meet the risk-based capital level and the minimum capital level for the regulated entity;
(2) Will contribute to the long-term financial safety and soundness of the regulated entity;
(3) Is otherwise in the interest of the regulated entity; or
(4) Is otherwise in the public interest.
(c) This section is intended to supplement and shall not replace or affect any other restriction on capital distributions imposed by statute or regulation.
§ 1237.13
Payment of Securities Litigation Claims while in conservatorship.
(a)
Payment of Securities Litigation Claims while in conservatorship.
The Agency, as conservator, will not pay a Securities Litigation Claim against a regulated entity, except to the extent the Director determines is in the interest of the conservatorship.
(b)
Claims against limited-life regulated entities.
A limited-life regulated entity shall not assume, acquire, or succeed to any obligation that a regulated entity for which a receiver has been appointed may have to any shareholder of the regulated entity that arises as a result of the status of that person as a shareholder of the regulated entity, including any Securities Litigation Claim. No creditor of the regulated entity shall have a claim against a limited-life regulated entity unless the receiver has transferred that liability to the limited-life regulated entity. The charter of the regulated entity, or of the limited-life regulated entity, is not an asset against which any claim can be made by any creditor or shareholder of the regulated entity.
§ 1237.14
Golden parachute payments [Reserved]
Pt. 1238

# PART 1238—STRESS TESTING OF REGULATED ENTITIES
Sec.
1238.1
Authority and purpose.
1238.2
Definitions.
1238.3
Annual stress test.
1238.4
Methodologies and practices.
1238.5
Required report to FHFA and the FRB of stress test results and related information.
1238.6
Post-assessment actions by the Enterprises.
1238.7
Publication of results by regulated entities.
1238.8
Additional implementing action.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426; 4513; 4526; 4612; 5365(i).

# Source:
78 FR 59222, Sept. 26, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1238.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) under section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1423-32 (2010), 12 U.S.C. 5365(i), as amended by section 401 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA), Public Law 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296 (2018), 12 U.S.C. 5365(i); and the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513, 4526, 4612).
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This part implements section 165(i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by section 401 of the EGRRCPA, which requires all large financial companies that have total consolidated assets of more than $250 billion, and are regulated by a primary federal financial regulatory agency, to conduct periodic stress tests.
(2) This part establishes requirements that apply to each Enterprise's performance of periodic stress tests. The purpose of the periodic stress test is to provide the Enterprises, FHFA, and the FRB with additional, forward-looking information that will help them to assess capital adequacy at the Enterprises under various scenarios; to review the Enterprises' stress test results; and to increase public disclosure of the Enterprises' capital condition by requiring broad dissemination of the stress test scenarios and results.
[85 FR 16529, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Planning horizon
means the period of time over which the stress projections must extend. The planning horizon cannot be less than nine quarters.
Scenarios
are sets of economic and financial conditions used in the Enterprises' stress tests, including baseline and severely adverse.
Stress test
is a process to assess the potential impact on an Enterprise of economic and financial conditions (“scenarios”) on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of the Enterprise over a set planning horizon, taking into account the current condition of the Enterprise and the Enterprise's risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.3
Annual stress test.
(a)
In general.
Each Enterprise:
(1) Shall complete an annual stress test of itself based on its data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year;
(2) The stress test shall be conducted in accordance with this section and the methodologies and practices described in § 1238.4 and in a supplemental guidance or order.
(b)
Scenarios provided by FHFA.
In conducting its annual stress tests under this section, each Enterprise must use scenarios provided by FHFA, which shall be generally consistent with and comparable to those established by the FRB, that reflect a minimum of two sets of economic and financial conditions, including a baseline and severely adverse scenario. Not later than 30 days after the FRB publishes its scenarios, FHFA will issue to the Enterprises a description of the baseline and severely adverse scenarios that each Enterprise shall use to conduct its annual stress tests under this part.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.4
Methodologies and practices.
(a)
Potential impact.
Except as noted in this subpart, in conducting a stress test under § 1238.3, each Enterprise shall calculate how each of the following is affected during each quarter of the stress test planning horizon, for each scenario:
(1) Potential losses, pre-provision net revenues, and future pro forma capital positions over the planning horizon; and
(2) Capital levels and capital ratios, including regulatory capital and net worth, and any other capital ratios specified by FHFA.
(b)
Planning horizon.
Each Enterprise must use a planning horizon of at least nine quarters over which the impact of specified scenarios would be assessed.
(c)
Additional analytical techniques.
If FHFA determines that the stress test methodologies and practices of an Enterprise are deficient, FHFA may determine that additional or alternative analytical techniques and exercises are appropriate for an Enterprise to use in identifying, measuring, and monitoring risks to the financial soundness of the Enterprise, and require an Enterprise to implement such techniques and exercises in order to fulfill the requirements of this part. In addition, FHFA will issue guidance annually to describe the baseline and severely adverse scenarios, and methodologies to be used in conducting the annual stress test.
(d)
Controls and oversight of the stress testing processes.
(1) The appropriate senior management of each Enterprise must ensure that the Enterprise establishes and maintains a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, designed to ensure that the stress testing processes used by the Enterprises are effective in meeting the requirements of this part. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the Enterprise's testing practices and methodologies, validation and use of stress test results, and processes for updating the Enterprise's stress testing practices consistent with relevant supervisory guidance;
(2) The board of directors, or a designated committee thereof, shall review and approve the policies and procedures established to comply with this part as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the Enterprise warrants, but at least annually; and
(3) Senior management of the Enterprise and each member of the board of directors shall receive a summary of the stress test results.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.5
Required report to FHFA and FRB of stress test results and related information.
(a)
Report required for stress tests.
On or before May 20 of each year, the Enterprises must report the results of the stress tests required under § 1238.3 to FHFA, and to the FRB, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(b)
Content of the report for annual stress test.
Each Enterprise must file a report in the manner and form established by FHFA.
(c)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
Reports submitted to FHFA under this part are FHFA property and records (as defined in 12 CFR part 1202). The reports are and include non-public information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of, FHFA in connection with the performance of the agency's responsibilities regulating or supervising the Enterprises. Disclosure of any reports submitted to FHFA or the information contained in any such report is prohibited unless authorized by this part, legal obligation, or otherwise by the Director of FHFA.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.6
Post-assessment actions by the Enterprises.
Each Enterprise shall take the results of the stress test conducted under § 1238.3 into account in making changes, as appropriate, to the Enterprise's capital structure (including the level and composition of capital); its exposures, concentrations, and risk positions; any plans for recovery and resolution; and to improve overall risk management. If an Enterprise is under FHFA conservatorship, any post-assessment actions shall require prior FHFA approval.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.7
Publication of results by regulated entities.
(a)
Public disclosure of results required for stress tests of the Enterprises.
The Enterprises must disclose publicly a summary of the stress test results for the severely adverse scenario not earlier than August 1 and not later than August 15 of each year. The summary may be published on the Enterprise's website or in any other form that is reasonably accessible to the public.
(b)
Information to be disclosed in the summary.
The information disclosed by each Enterprise shall, at minimum, include—
(1) A description of the types of risks being included in the stress test;
(2) A high-level description of the scenario provided by FHFA, including key variables (such as GDP, unemployment rate, housing prices, and foreclosure rate, etc.);
(3) A general description of the methodologies employed to estimate losses, pre-provision net revenue, and changes in capital positions over the planning horizon;
(4) A general description of the use of the required stress test as one element in an Enterprise's overall capital planning and capital assessment. If an Enterprise is under conservatorship, this description shall be coordinated with FHFA;
(5) Aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, net income, net worth, pro
forma capital levels and capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by FHFA) over the planning horizon, under the scenario; and
(6) Such other data fields, in such form (
e.g.,
aggregated), as the Director may require.
[85 FR 16530, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 1238.8
Additional implementing action.
The Director may, in circumstances considered appropriate, require any regulated entity not subject to this part to conduct stress testing hereunder; and from time to time, issue such guidance and orders as may be necessary to facilitate implementation of this part.
Pt. 1239

# PART 1239—RESPONSIBILITIES OF BOARDS OF DIRECTORS, CORPORATE PRACTICES, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1239.1
Purpose.
1239.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Corporate Practices and Procedures Applicable to All Regulated Entities
1239.3
Law applicable to corporate governance and indemnification practices.
1239.4
Duties and responsibilities of directors.
1239.5
Board committees.

# Subpart C—Other Requirements Applicable to All Regulated Entities
1239.10
Code of conduct and ethics.
1239.11
Risk management.
1239.12
Compliance program.
1239.13
Regulatory reports.
1239.14
Strategic business plan.

# Subpart D—Enterprise Specific Requirements
1239.20
Board of directors of the Enterprises.
1239.21
Compensation of Enterprise board members.

# Subpart E—Bank Specific Requirements
1239.30
Bank member products policy.
1239.31
[Reserved]
1239.32
Audit committee.
1239.33
Dividends.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426, 1427, 1432(a), 1436(a), 1440, 4511(b), 4513(a), 4513(b), 4526, and 15 U.S.C. 78
oo
(b).

# Source:
80 FR 72336, Nov. 19, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1239.1
Purpose.
FHFA is responsible for supervising and ensuring the safety and soundness of the regulated entities. In furtherance of those responsibilities, this part sets forth minimum standards with respect to responsibilities of boards of directors, corporate practices, and corporate governance matters of the regulated entities.
§ 1239.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, (unless otherwise noted):
Board member
means a member of the board of directors of a regulated entity.
Board of directors
means the board of directors of a regulated entity.
Business risk
means the risk of an adverse impact on a regulated entity's profitability resulting from external factors as may occur in both the short and long run.
Community financial institution
has the meaning set forth in § 1263.1 of this chapter.
Compensation
means any payment of money or the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection with employment or in connection with service as a director.
Credit risk
is the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its financial obligations in accordance with agreed terms.
Employee
means an individual, other than an executive officer, who works part-time, full-time, or temporarily for a regulated entity.
Executive officer
means the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, president, any executive vice president, any senior vice president, and any individual with similar responsibilities, without regard to title, who is in charge of a principal business unit, division, or function, or
who reports directly to the chairperson, vice chairperson, chief operating officer, or chief executive officer or president of a regulated entity.
Immediate family member
means a parent, sibling, spouse, child, dependent, or any relative sharing the same residence.
Internal auditor
means the individual responsible for the internal audit function at a regulated entity.
Liquidity risk
means the risk that a regulated entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they come due or meet the credit needs of its members and associates in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
Market risk
means the risk that the market value, or estimated fair value if market value is not available, of a regulated entity's portfolio will decline as a result of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or equity or commodity prices.
NYSE
means the New York Stock Exchange.
Operational risk
means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems, or from external events (including legal risk but excluding strategic and reputational risk).
Risk appetite
means the aggregate level and types of risk the board of directors and management are willing to assume to achieve the regulated entity's strategic objectives and business plan, consistent with applicable capital, liquidity, and other regulatory requirements.
Significant deficiency
means a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

# Subpart B—Corporate Practices and Procedures Applicable to All Regulated Entities
§ 1239.3
Law applicable to corporate governance and indemnification practices.
(a)
General.
The corporate governance practices and procedures of each regulated entity, and practices and procedures relating to indemnification (including advancement of expenses), shall comply with and be subject to the applicable authorizing statutes and other Federal law, rules, and regulations, and shall be consistent with the safe and sound operations of the regulated entities.
(b)
Election and designation of body of law.
(1) To the extent not inconsistent with paragraph (a) of this section, each regulated entity shall elect to follow the corporate governance and indemnification practices and procedures set forth in one of the following:
(i) The law of the jurisdiction in which the principal office of the regulated entity is located;
(ii) The Delaware General Corporation Law (Del. Code Ann. Title 8); or
(iii) The Revised Model Business Corporation Act.
(2) Each regulated entity shall designate in its bylaws the body of law elected for its corporate governance and indemnification practices and procedures pursuant to this paragraph, and shall do so by no later than March 18, 2016.
(c)
Indemnification.
(1) Subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to the extent applicable, a regulated entity shall indemnify (and advance the expenses of) its directors, officers, and employees under such terms and conditions as are determined by its board of directors. The regulated entity is authorized to maintain insurance for its directors and any other officer or employee.
(2) Each regulated entity shall have in place policies and procedures consistent with this section for indemnification of its directors, officers, and employees. Such policies and procedures shall address how the board of directors is to approve or deny requests for indemnification from current and former directors, officers, and employees, and shall include standards relating to indemnification, investigations by the board of directors, and review by independent counsel.
(3) Nothing in this paragraph (c) shall affect any rights to indemnification (including the advancement of expenses) that a director or any other officer or employee had with respect to any actions, omissions, transactions, or facts occurring prior to the effective date of this paragraph.
(4) FHFA has the authority under the Safety and Soundness Act to review a regulated entity's indemnification policies, procedures, and practices to ensure that they are conducted in a safe and sound manner, and that they are consistent with the body of law adopted by the board of directors under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
No rights created.
Nothing in this part shall create or be deemed to create any rights in any third party, including in any member of a Bank, nor shall it cause or be deemed to cause any regulated entity to become subject to the jurisdiction of any state court with respect to the entity's corporate governance or indemnification practices or procedures.
§ 1239.4
Duties and responsibilities of directors.
(a)
Management of a regulated entity.
The management of each regulated entity shall be by or under the direction of its board of directors. While a board of directors may delegate the execution of operational functions to officers and employees of the regulated entity, the ultimate responsibility of each entity's board of directors for that entity's oversight is non-delegable. The board of directors of a regulated entity is responsible for directing the conduct and affairs of the entity in furtherance of the safe and sound operation of the entity and shall remain reasonably informed of the condition, activities, and operations of the entity.
(b)
Duties of directors.
Each director of a regulated entity shall have the duty to:
(1) Carry out his or her duties as director in good faith, in a manner such director believes to be in the best interests of the regulated entity, and with such care, including reasonable inquiry, as is required under the Revised Model Business Corporation Act or the other body of law that the entity's board of directors has chosen to follow for its corporate governance and indemnification practices and procedures in accordance with § 1239.3(b);
(2) For Bank directors, administer the affairs of the regulated entity fairly and impartially and without discrimination in favor of or against any member institution;
(3) At the time of election, or within a reasonable time thereafter, have a working familiarity with basic finance and accounting practices, including the ability to read and understand the regulated entity's balance sheet and income statement and to ask substantive questions of management and the internal and external auditors;
(4) Direct the operations of the regulated entity in conformity with the requirements set forth in the authorizing statutes, the Safety and Soundness Act, and this chapter; and
(5) Adopt and maintain in effect at all times bylaws governing the manner in which the regulated entity administers its affairs. Such bylaws shall be consistent with applicable laws and regulations administered by FHFA, and with the body of law designated for the entity's corporate governance practices and procedures in accordance with § 1239.3(b).
(c)
Director responsibilities.
The responsibilities of the board of directors include having in place adequate policies to assure its oversight of, among other matters, the following:
(1) The risk management and compensation programs of the regulated entity;
(2) The processes for providing accurate financial reporting and other disclosures, and communications with stockholders; and
(3) The responsiveness of executive officers in providing accurate and timely reports to FHFA and in addressing all supervisory concerns of FHFA in a timely and appropriate manner.
(d)
Authority regarding staff and outside consultants.
(1) In carrying out its duties and responsibilities under the authorizing statutes, the Safety and Soundness Act, and this chapter, each regulated entity's board of directors and all committees thereof shall have authority to retain staff and outside counsel, independent accountants, or other outside consultants at the expense of the regulated entity.
(2) The board of directors and its committees may require that staff of the regulated entity that provides services to the board or any committee under paragraph (d)(1) of this section report directly to the board or such committee, as appropriate.
§ 1239.5
Board committees.
(a)
General.
The board of directors may rely, in directing a regulated entity, on reports from committees of the board of directors, provided, however, that no committee of the board of directors shall have the authority of the board of directors to amend the bylaws and no committee shall operate to relieve the board of directors or any board member of a responsibility imposed by applicable law, rule, or regulation.
(b)
Required committees.
The board of directors of each regulated entity shall have committees, however styled, that address each of the following areas of responsibility: Risk management; audit; compensation; and corporate governance (in the case of the Banks, including the nomination of independent board of director candidates, and, in the case of the Enterprises, including the nomination of all board of director candidates). The risk management committee and the audit committee shall not be combined with any other committees. The board of directors may establish any other committees that it deems necessary or useful to carrying out its responsibilities, subject to the provisions of this section. In the case of the Enterprises, board committees shall comply with the charter, independence, composition, expertise, duties, responsibilities, and other requirements set forth under rules issued by the NYSE, and the audit committees shall also comply with the requirements set forth under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Public Law 107-204.
(c)
Charter.
The board of directors shall adopt a formal written charter for each committee that specifies the scope of a committee's powers and responsibilities, as well as the committee's structure, processes, and membership requirements.
(d)
Frequency of meetings.
Each committee of the board of directors shall meet regularly and with sufficient frequency to carry out its obligations and duties under applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines. Committees that are structured to meet only on an as-needed basis shall meet in the manner specified by their charter. All such committees shall also meet with sufficient timeliness as necessary in light of relevant conditions and circumstances to fulfill their obligations and duties.

# Subpart C—Other Requirements Applicable to All Regulated Entities
§ 1239.10
Code of conduct and ethics.
(a)
General.
A regulated entity shall establish and administer a written code of conduct and ethics that is reasonably designed to assure that its directors, officers, and employees discharge their duties and responsibilities in an objective and impartial manner that promotes honest and ethical conduct, compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, accountability for adherence to the code, and prompt internal reporting of violations of the code to appropriate persons identified in the code. The code also shall include provisions applicable to the regulated entity's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, that are reasonably designed to promote full, fair, accurate, and understandable disclosure in reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public communications reporting on the entity's financial condition.
(b)
Review.
Not less often than once every three years, a regulated entity shall review the adequacy of its code of conduct and ethics for consistency with practices appropriate to the entity and make any appropriate revisions to such code.
§ 1239.11
Risk management.
(a)
Risk management program
—(1)
Adoption.
Each regulated entity's board of directors shall approve, have in effect at all times, and periodically review an enterprise-wide risk management program that establishes the regulated entity's risk appetite, aligns the risk appetite with the regulated entity's strategies and objectives, addresses the regulated entity's exposure to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, business risk and operational risk, and complies with the requirements of this
part and with all applicable FHFA regulations and policies.
(2)
Risk appetite.
The board of directors shall ensure that the risk management program aligns with the regulated entity's risk appetite.
(3)
Risk management program requirements.
The risk management program shall include:
(i) Risk limitations appropriate to each business line of the regulated entity;
(ii) Appropriate policies and procedures relating to risk management governance, risk oversight infrastructure, and processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks, including emerging risks;
(iii) Provisions for monitoring compliance with the regulated entity's risk limit structure and policies relating to risk management governance, risk oversight, and effective and timely implementation of corrective actions; and
(iv) Provisions specifying management's authority and independence to carry out risk management responsibilities, and the integration of risk management with management's goals and compensation structure.
(b)
Risk committee.
The board of each regulated entity shall establish and maintain a risk committee of the board of directors that assists the board in carrying out its duties to oversee the enterprise-wide risk management program at the regulated entity.
(1)
Committee structure.
The risk committee shall:
(i) Be chaired by a director not serving in a management capacity of the regulated entity;
(ii) Have at least one member with risk management experience that is commensurate with the regulated entity's capital structure, risk appetite, complexity, activities, size, and other appropriate risk-related factors;
(iii) Have committee members that have, or that will acquire within a reasonable time after being elected to the committee, a practical understanding of risk management principles and practices relevant to the regulated entity;
(iv) Fully document and maintain records of its meetings, including its risk management decisions and recommendations; and
(v) Report directly to the board and not as part of, or combined with, another committee.
(2)
Committee responsibilities.
The risk committee shall:
(i) Periodically review and recommend for board approval an appropriate enterprise-wide risk management program that is commensurate with the regulated entity's capital structure, risk appetite, complexity, activities, size, and other appropriate risk-related factors;
(ii) Receive and review regular reports from the regulated entity's chief risk officer, as required under paragraph (c)(5) of this section ; and
(iii) Periodically review the capabilities for, and adequacy of resources allocated to, enterprise-wide risk management.
(c)
Chief Risk Officer.
—(1)
Appointment of a chief risk officer (CRO).
Each regulated entity shall appoint a CRO to implement and maintain appropriate enterprise-wide risk management practices for the regulated entity.
(2)
Organizational structure of the risk management function.
The CRO shall head an independent enterprise-wide risk management function, or unit, and shall report directly to the risk committee and to the chief executive officer.
(3)
Responsibilities of the CRO.
The CRO shall be responsible for the enterprise-wide risk management function, including:
(i) Allocating risk limits and monitoring compliance with such limits;
(ii) Establishing appropriate policies and procedures relating to risk management governance, practices, and risk controls, and developing appropriate processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks, including emerging risks;
(iii) Monitoring risk exposures, including testing risk controls and verifying risk measures; and
(iv) Communicating within the organization about any risk management issues and/or emerging risks, and ensuring that risk management issues are effectively resolved in a timely manner.
(4) The CRO should have risk management expertise that is commensurate with the regulated entity's capital structure, risk appetite, complexity, activities, size, and other appropriate risk related factors.
(5) The CRO shall report regularly to the risk committee and to the chief executive officer on significant risk exposures and related controls, changes to risk appetite, risk management strategies, results of risk management reviews, and emerging risks. The CRO shall also report regularly on the regulated entity's compliance with, and the adequacy of, its current risk management policies and procedures, and shall recommend any adjustments to such policies and procedures that he or she considers necessary or appropriate.
(6) The compensation of a regulated entity's CRO shall be appropriately structured to provide for an objective and independent assessment of the risks taken by the regulated entity.
§ 1239.12
Compliance program.
A regulated entity shall establish and maintain a compliance program that is reasonably designed to assure that the regulated entity complies with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and internal controls. The compliance program shall be headed by a compliance officer, however styled, who reports directly to the chief executive officer. The compliance officer also shall report regularly to the board of directors, or an appropriate committee thereof, on the adequacy of the entity's compliance policies and procedures, including the entity's compliance with them, and shall recommend any revisions to such policies and procedures that he or she considers necessary or appropriate.
§ 1239.13
Regulatory reports.
(a)
Reports.
Each regulated entity shall file Regulatory Reports with FHFA in accordance with the forms, instructions, and schedules issued by FHFA from time to time. If no regularly scheduled reporting dates are established, Regulatory Reports shall be filed as requested by FHFA.
(b)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the term
Regulatory Report
means any report to FHFA of information or raw or summary data needed to evaluate the safe and sound condition or operations of a regulated entity, or to determine compliance with any:
(1) Provision in the Bank Act, Safety and Soundness Act, or other law, order, rule, or regulation;
(2) Condition imposed in writing by FHFA in connection with the granting of any application or other request by a regulated entity; or
(3) Written agreement entered into between FHFA and a regulated entity.
§ 1239.14
Strategic business plan.
(a)
Adoption of strategic business plan.
Each board of directors shall adopt and have in effect at all times a strategic business plan for the regulated entity that describes, at a minimum, how the significant business activities of the regulated entity will achieve its mission and public purposes consistent with its authorizing statute, the Safety and Soundness Act, and, in the case of a Bank, part 1265 of this chapter. Specifically, each regulated entity's strategic business plan shall at a minimum:
(1)(i) In the case of a Bank, articulate measurable goals and objectives for each significant business activity and for all authorized new business activities, which must include plans for maximizing activities that further the Bank's housing finance and community lending mission, consistent with part 1265 of this chapter;
(ii) In the case of an Enterprise, articulate measurable goals and objectives for each significant existing activity and for significant authorized new activities;
(2) Discuss how the regulated entity will address credit needs and market opportunities identified through ongoing market research and stakeholder consultations;
(3) Describe any significant activities in which the regulated entity is planning to be engaged, including any significant changes to business strategy or approach that the regulated entity is planning to undertake, and discuss how such activities would further the regulated entity's mission and public purposes;
(4)(i) In the case of a Bank, be supported by appropriate and timely research and analysis of relevant market developments and member and housing associate demand for Bank products and services;
(ii) In the case of an Enterprise, be supported by appropriate and timely research and analysis of relevant market developments; and
(5) Identify current and emerging risks associated with the regulated entity's significant existing activities or new activities, and discuss how the regulated entity plans to address such risks while furthering its public purposes and mission in a safe and sound manner.
(b)
Review and monitoring.
Each board of directors shall:
(1) Review the regulated entity's strategic business plan at least annually;
(2) Re-adopt the strategic business plan for the regulated entity at least every three years; and
(3) Establish management reporting requirements and monitor implementation of the strategic business plan and the goals and objectives contained therein.
[83 FR 52954, Oct. 19, 2018]

# Subpart D—Enterprise Specific Requirements
§ 1239.20
Board of directors of the Enterprises.
(a)
Membership
—(1)
Limits on service of board members.
—(i)
General requirement.
No board member of an Enterprise may serve on the board of directors for more than 10 years or past the age of 72, whichever comes first; provided, however, a board member may serve his or her full term if he or she has served less than 10 years or is 72 years on the date of his or her election or appointment to the board; and
(ii)
Waiver.
Upon written request of an Enterprise, the Director may waive, in his or her sole discretion and for good cause, the limits on the service of a board member under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Independence of board members.
A majority of seated members of the board of directors of an Enterprise shall be independent board members, as defined under rules set forth by the NYSE, as amended from time to time.
(3)
Segregation of duties.
The position of chairperson of the board of directors shall be filled by a person other than the chief executive officer, who shall also be a director of the Enterprise that is independent, as defined under the rules set forth by the NYSE, as amended from time to time.
(b)
Meetings, quorum and proxies, information, and annual review
—(1)
Frequency of meetings.
The board of directors of an Enterprise shall meet at least eight times a year and no less than once a calendar quarter to carry out its obligations and duties under applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
(2)
Non-management board member meetings.
Non-management directors of an Enterprise shall meet at regularly scheduled executive sessions without management participation.
(3)
Quorum of board of directors; proxies not permissible.
For the transaction of business, a quorum of the board of directors of an Enterprise is at least a majority of the seated board of directors and a board member may not vote by proxy.
(4)
Information.
Management of an Enterprise shall provide a board member of the Enterprise with such adequate and appropriate information that a reasonable board member would find important to the fulfillment of his or her fiduciary duties and obligations.
(5)
Annual review.
At least annually, the board of directors of an Enterprise shall be informed of significant changes to the requirements of laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines that are applicable to its activities and duties.
§ 1239.21
Compensation of Enterprise board members.
Each Enterprise may pay its directors reasonable and appropriate compensation for the time required of them, and their necessary and reasonable expenses, in the performance of their duties.

# Subpart E—Bank Specific Requirements
§ 1239.30
Bank member products policy.
(a)
Adoption and review of member products policy
—(1)
Adoption.
Each Bank's board of directors shall have in effect at all times a policy that addresses the Bank's management of products offered by the Bank to members and housing associates, including but not limited to advances, standby letters of credit, and acquired member assets, consistent with the requirements of the Bank Act, paragraph (b) of this section, and all applicable FHFA regulations and policies.
(2)
Review and compliance.
Each Bank's board of directors shall:
(i) Review the Bank's member products policy annually;
(ii) Amend the member products policy as appropriate; and
(iii) Re-adopt the member products policy, including interim amendments, not less often than every three years.
(b)
Member products policy requirements.
In addition to meeting any other requirements set forth in this chapter, each Bank's member products policy shall:
(1) Address credit underwriting criteria to be applied in evaluating applications for advances, standby letters of credit, and renewals;
(2) Address appropriate levels of collateralization, valuation of collateral and discounts applied to collateral values for advances and standby letters of credit;
(3) Address advances-related fees to be charged by each Bank, including any schedules or formulas pertaining to such fees;
(4) Address standards and criteria for pricing member products, including differential pricing of advances pursuant to § 1266.5(b)(2) of this chapter, and criteria regarding the pricing of standby letters of credit, including any special pricing provisions for standby letters of credit that facilitate the financing of projects that are eligible for any of the Banks' CICA programs under part 1292 of this chapter;
(5) Provide that, for any draw made by a beneficiary under a standby letter of credit, the member will be charged a processing fee calculated in accordance with the requirements of § 1271.6(b) of this chapter;
(6) Address the maintenance of appropriate systems, procedures, and internal controls; and
(7) Address the maintenance of appropriate operational and personnel capacity.
§ 1239.31
[Reserved]
§ 1239.32
Audit committee.
(a)
Establishment.
The audit committee of each Bank established as required by § 1239.5(b) shall be consistent with the requirements set forth in this section.
(b)
Composition.
(1) The audit committee shall comprise five or more persons drawn from the Bank's board of directors, each of whom shall meet the criteria of independence set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The audit committee shall include, to the extent practicable, a balance of representatives of:
(i) Community financial institutions and other members; and
(ii) Independent directors and member directors of the Bank, both as defined in the Bank Act.
(3) The terms of audit committee members shall be appropriately staggered so as to provide for continuity of service.
(4) At least one member of the audit committee shall have extensive accounting or related financial management experience.
(c)
Independence.
Any member of the Bank's board of directors shall be considered to be sufficiently independent to serve as a member of the audit committee if that director does not have a disqualifying relationship with the Bank or its management that would interfere with the exercise of that director's independent judgment. Such disqualifying relationships include, but are not limited to:
(1) Being employed by the Bank in the current year or any of the past five years;
(2) Accepting any compensation from the Bank other than compensation for service as a board director;
(3) Serving or having served in any of the past five years as a consultant, advisor, promoter, underwriter, or legal counsel of or to the Bank; or
(4) Being an immediate family member of an individual who is, or has been in any of the past five years, employed by the Bank as an executive officer.
(d)
Charter.
(1) The audit committee of each Bank shall review and assess the adequacy of the Bank's audit committee charter on an annual basis, and shall recommend to the board of directors any amendments that it believes to be appropriate;
(2) The board of directors of each Bank shall review and assess the adequacy of the audit committee charter on an annual basis, shall amend the audit committee charter whenever it deems it appropriate to do so, and shall reapprove the audit committee charter not less often than every three years; and
(3) Each Bank's audit committee charter shall:
(i) Provide that the audit committee has the responsibility to select, evaluate and, where appropriate, replace the internal auditor and that the internal auditor may be removed only with the approval of the audit committee;
(ii) Provide that the internal auditor shall report directly to the audit committee on substantive matters and that the internal auditor is ultimately accountable to the audit committee and board of directors;
(iii) Provide that the audit committee shall be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention, and oversight of the work of the external auditor;
(iv) Provide that the external auditor shall report directly to the audit committee;
(v) Provide that both the internal auditor and the external auditor shall have unrestricted access to the audit committee without the need for any prior management knowledge or approval; and
(vi) Provide that the Bank shall make available appropriate funding, as determined by the audit committee, for payment of compensation to the external auditor, to any independent advisors or counsel engaged by the audit committee, and ordinary administrative expenses that are necessary or appropriate for the audit committee to carry out its duties.
(e)
Duties.
Each Bank's audit committee shall have the duty to:
(1) Direct senior management to maintain the reliability and integrity of the accounting policies and financial reporting and disclosure practices of the Bank;
(2) Review the basis for the Bank's financial statements and the external auditor's opinion rendered with respect to such financial statements (including the nature and extent of any significant changes in accounting principles or the application thereof) and ensure that policies are in place that are reasonably designed to achieve disclosure and transparency regarding the Bank's true financial performance and governance practices;
(3) Oversee the internal audit function by:
(i) Reviewing the scope of audit services required, significant accounting policies, significant risks and exposures, audit activities, and audit findings;
(ii) Assessing the performance and determining the compensation of the internal auditor; and
(iii) Reviewing and approving the internal auditor's work plan.
(4) Oversee the external audit function by:
(i) Approving the external auditor's annual engagement letter; and
(ii) Reviewing the performance of the external auditor.
(5) Provide an independent, direct channel of communication between the Bank's board of directors and the internal and external auditors;
(6) Conduct or authorize investigations into any matters within the audit committee's scope of responsibilities;
(7) Ensure that senior management has established and is maintaining an adequate internal control system within the Bank by:
(i) Reviewing the Bank's internal control system and the resolution of identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in the internal control system, including the prevention or detection of management override or compromise of the internal control system; and
(ii) Reviewing the programs and policies of the Bank designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies, and monitoring the results of these compliance efforts;
(8) Review the policies established by senior management to assess and monitor implementation of the Bank's strategic business plan and the operating goals and objectives contained therein;
(9) Report periodically its findings to the Bank's board of directors; and
(10) Establish procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints received by the Bank regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and for the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of the Bank of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
(f)
Meetings.
The audit committee shall prepare written minutes of each audit committee meeting.
[80 FR 72336, Nov. 19, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 76295, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1239.33
Dividends.
A Bank's board of directors may not declare or pay a dividend based on projected or anticipated earnings and may not declare or pay a dividend if the par value of the Bank's stock is impaired or is projected to become impaired after paying such dividend.

# SUBCHAPTER C—ENTERPRISES
Pt. 1240

# PART 1240—CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF ENTERPRISES
Sec.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
1240.1
Purpose, applicability, reservations of authority, reporting, and timing.
1240.2
Definitions.
1240.3
Operational requirements for counterparty credit risk.
1240.4
Transition.

# Subpart B—Capital Requirements and Buffers
1240.10
Capital requirements.
1240.11
Capital conservation buffer and leverage buffer.

# Subpart C—Definition of Capital
1240.20
Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
1240.21
[Reserved]
1240.22
Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.

# Subpart D—Risk-Weighted Assets—Standardized Approach
1240.30
Applicability.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
1240.31
Mechanics for calculating risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
1240.32
General risk weights.
1240.33
Single-family mortgage exposures.
1240.34
Multifamily mortgage exposures.
1240.35
Off-balance sheet exposures.
1240.36
Derivative contracts.
1240.37
Cleared transactions.
1240.38
Guarantees and credit derivatives: substitution treatment.
1240.39
Collateralized transactions.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Unsettled Transactions
1240.40
Unsettled transactions.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for CRT and Other Securitization Exposures
1240.41
Operational requirements for CRT and other securitization exposures.
1240.42
Risk-Weighted assets for CRT and other securitization exposures.
1240.43
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
1240.44
Credit risk transfer approach (CRTA).
1240.45
Securitization exposures to which the SSFA and the CRTA do not apply.
1240.46
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
1240.51
Introduction and exposure measurement.
1240.52
Simple risk-weight approach (SRWA).
1240.53-1240.60
[Reserved]
1240.61
Purpose and scope.
1240.62
Disclosure requirements.
1240.63
Disclosures.

# Subpart E—Risk-Weighted Assets—Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
1240.100
Purpose, applicability, and principle of conservatism.
1240.101
Definitions.
1240.121
Minimum requirements.
1240.122
Ongoing qualification.
1240.123
Advanced approaches credit risk-weighted asset calculations.
1240.124-1240.160
[Reserved]
1240.161
Qualification requirements for incorporation of operational risk mitigants.
1240.162
Mechanics of operational risk risk-weighted asset calculation.

# Subpart F—Risk-Weighted Assets—Market Risk
1240.201
Purpose, applicability, and reservation of authority.
1240.202
Definitions.
1240.203
Requirements for managing market risk.
1240.204
Measure for spread risk.
1240.205
Market risk disclosures.

# Subpart G—Stability Capital Buffer
1240.400
Stability capital buffer.

# Subpart H—Capital Planning and Stress Capital Buffer Determination
1240.500
Capital planning and stress capital buffer determination.
1240.501-1240.502
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511, 4513, 4513b, 4514, 4515, 4517, 4526, 4611-4612, 4631-36.

# Source:
85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1240.1
Purpose, applicability, reservations of authority, reporting, and timing.
(a)
Purpose.
This part establishes capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards for the Enterprises. This part includes methodologies for calculating capital requirements, disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements, and transition provisions for the application of this part.
(b)
Authorities
—(1)
Limitations of authority.
Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of FHFA to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation under the Safety and Soundness Act, and including action under sections 1313(a)(2), 1365-1367, 1371-1376 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513(a)(2), 4615-4617, and 4631-4636).
(2)
Permissible activities.
Nothing in this part may be construed to authorize, permit, or require an Enterprise to engage in any activity not authorized by its authorizing statute or that would otherwise be inconsistent with its authorizing statute or the Safety and Soundness Act.
(c)
Applicability
—(1)
Covered regulated entities.
This part applies on a consolidated basis to each Enterprise.
(2)
Capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards.
Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must calculate its capital requirements and meet the overall capital adequacy standards in subpart B of this part.
(3)
Regulatory capital.
Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must calculate its regulatory capital in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(4)
Risk-weighted assets.
(i) Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must use the methodologies in subparts D and F of this part to calculate standardized total risk-weighted assets.
(ii) Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must use the methodologies in subparts E and F of this part to calculate advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(d)
Reservation of authority regarding capital.
Subject to applicable provisions of the Safety and Soundness Act—
(1)
Additional capital in the aggregate.
FHFA may require an Enterprise to hold an amount of regulatory capital greater than otherwise required under this part if FHFA determines that the Enterprise's capital requirements under this part are not commensurate with the Enterprise's credit, market, operational, or other risks.
(2)
Regulatory capital elements.
(i) If FHFA determines that a particular common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital element has characteristics or terms that diminish its ability to absorb losses, or otherwise present safety and soundness concerns, FHFA may require the Enterprise to exclude all or a portion of such element from common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, as appropriate.
(ii) Notwithstanding the criteria for regulatory capital instruments set forth in subpart C of this part, FHFA may find that a capital element may be included in an Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital on a permanent or temporary basis consistent with the loss absorption capacity of the element and in accordance with § 1240.20(e).
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amounts.
If FHFA determines that the risk-weighted asset amount calculated under this part by the Enterprise for one or more exposures is not commensurate with the risks associated with those exposures, FHFA may require the Enterprise to assign a different risk-weighted asset amount to the exposure(s) or to deduct the amount of the exposure(s) from its regulatory capital.
(4)
Total leverage.
If FHFA determines that the adjusted total asset amount calculated by an Enterprise is inappropriate for the exposure(s) or the circumstances of the Enterprise, FHFA may require the Enterprise to adjust this exposure amount in the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the leverage ratio calculations.
(5)
Consolidation of certain exposures.
FHFA may determine that the risk-
based capital treatment for an exposure or the treatment provided to an entity that is not consolidated on the Enterprise's balance sheet is not commensurate with the risk of the exposure and the relationship of the Enterprise to the entity. Upon making this determination, FHFA may require the Enterprise to treat the exposure or entity as if it were consolidated on the balance sheet of the Enterprise for purposes of determining the Enterprise's risk-based capital requirements and calculating the Enterprise's risk-based capital ratios accordingly. FHFA will look to the substance of, and risk associated with, the transaction, as well as other relevant factors FHFA deems appropriate in determining whether to require such treatment.
(6)
Other reservation of authority.
With respect to any deduction or limitation required under this part, FHFA may require a different deduction or limitation, provided that such alternative deduction or limitation is commensurate with the Enterprise's risk and consistent with safety and soundness.
(e)
Corrective action and enforcement.
(1) FHFA may enforce this part pursuant to sections 1371, 1372, and 1376 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4631, 4632, 4636).
(2) FHFA also may enforce the total capital requirement established under § 1240.10(a) and the core capital requirement established under § 1240.10(e) pursuant to section 1364 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4614).
(3) This part is also a prudential standard adopted under section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b), excluding § 1240.11, which is a prudential standard only for purposes of § 1240.4. Section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b) authorizes the Director to require that an Enterprise submit a corrective plan under § 1236.4 specifying the actions the Enterprise will take to correct the deficiency if the Director determines that an Enterprise is not in compliance with this part.
(f)
Reporting procedure and timing
—(1)
Capital Reports
—(i)
In general.
Each Enterprise shall file a capital report with FHFA every calendar quarter providing the information and data required by FHFA. The specifics of required information and data, and the report format, will be separately provided to the Enterprise by FHFA.
(ii)
Required content.
The capital report shall include, as of the end of the last calendar quarter—
(A) The common equity tier 1 capital, core capital, tier 1 capital, total capital, and adjusted total capital of the Enterprise;
(B) The stress capital buffer, the capital conservation buffer amount (if prescribed by FHFA), the stability capital buffer, and the maximum payout ratio of the Enterprise;
(C) The adjusted total assets of the Enterprise; and
(D) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the Enterprise.
(2)
Timing.
The Enterprise must submit the capital report not later than 60 days after the last day of the calendar quarter or at such other time as the Director requires.
(3)
Approval.
The capital report must be approved by the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of an Enterprise prior to submission to FHFA.
(4)
Adjustment.
In the event an Enterprise makes an adjustment to its financial statements for a quarter or a date for which information was provided pursuant to this paragraph (f), which would cause an adjustment to a capital report, an Enterprise must file with the Director an amended capital report not later than 15 days after the date of such adjustment.
(5)
Public disclosure.
An Enterprise must disclose in an appropriate publicly available filing or other document each of the information reported under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
§ 1240.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Acquired CRT exposure
means, with respect to an Enterprise:
(1) Any exposure that arises from a credit risk transfer of the Enterprise and has been acquired by the Enterprise since the issuance or entry into the credit risk transfer by the Enterprise; or
(2) Any exposure that arises from a credit risk transfer of the other Enterprise.
Additional tier 1
capital is defined in § 1240.20(c).
Adjusted allowances for credit losses (AACL)
means valuation allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings or retained earnings for expected credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost and a lessor's net investment in leases that have been established to reduce the amortized cost basis of the assets to amounts expected to be collected as determined in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of this part, adjusted allowances for credit losses include allowances for expected credit losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures not accounted for as insurance as determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted allowances for credit losses allowances created that reflect credit losses on purchased credit deteriorated assets and available-for-sale debt securities.
Adjusted total assets
means the sum of the items described in paragraphs (1) though (9) of this definition, as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (9) of this definition for a clearing member Enterprise:
(1) The balance sheet carrying value of all of the Enterprise's on-balance sheet assets, plus the value of securities sold under a repurchase transaction or a securities lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), less amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under § 1240.22(a), (c), and (d), and less the value of securities received in security-for-security repo-style transactions, where the Enterprise acts as a securities lender and includes the securities received in its on-balance sheet assets but has not sold or re-hypothecated the securities received,
less
the fair value of any derivative contracts;
(2)(i) The potential future exposure (PFE) for each netting set to which the Enterprise is a counterparty (including cleared transactions except as provided in paragraph (9) of this definition and, at the discretion of the Enterprise, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP), as determined under § 1240.36(c)(7), in which the term C in § 1240.36(c)(7)(i) equals zero, and, for any counterparty that is not a commercial end-user, multiplied by 1.4. For purposes of this paragraph, an Enterprise may set the value of the term C in § 1240.36(c)(7)(i) equal to the amount of collateral posted by a clearing member client of the Enterprise in connection with the client-facing derivative transactions within the netting set; and
(ii) An Enterprise may choose to exclude the PFE of all credit derivatives or other similar instruments through which it provides credit protection when calculating the PFE under § 1240.36(c), provided that it does so consistently over time for the calculation of the PFE for all such instruments;
(3)(i)(A) The replacement cost of each derivative contract or single product netting set of derivative contracts to which the Enterprise is a counterparty, calculated according to the following formula, and, for any counterparty that is not a commercial end-user, multiplied by 1.4:
Replacement Cost
= max{
V
−
CVM
r
+
CVM
p
;
0}
Where:
(
1
)
V
equals the fair value for each derivative contract or each single-product netting set of derivative contracts (including a cleared transaction except as provided in paragraph (9) of this definition and, at the discretion of the Enterprise, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP);
(
2
)
CVM
r
equals the amount of cash collateral received from a counterparty to a derivative contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (3)(ii) through (vi) of this definition, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction, the amount of collateral received from the clearing member client; and
(
3
)
CVM
p
equals the amount of cash collateral that is posted to a counterparty to a derivative contract and that has not offset the fair value of the derivative contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (3)(ii) through (vi) of this definition, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction, the amount of collateral posted to the clearing member client;
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (3)(i)(A) of this definition, where multiple netting sets are subject to a single variation margin agreement, an Enterprise must apply the formula for replacement cost provided in § 1240.36(c)(10)(i), in which the term C
MA
may only include cash collateral that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (3)(ii) through (vi) of this definition; and
(C) For purposes of paragraph (3)(i)(A) of this definition, an Enterprise must treat a derivative contract that references an index as if it were multiple derivative contracts each referencing one component of the index if the Enterprise elected to treat the derivative contract as multiple derivative contracts under § 1240.36(c)(5)(vi);
(ii) For derivative contracts that are not cleared through a QCCP, the cash collateral received by the recipient counterparty is not segregated (by law, regulation, or an agreement with the counterparty);
(iii) Variation margin is calculated and transferred on a daily basis based on the mark-to-fair value of the derivative contract;
(iv) The variation margin transferred under the derivative contract or the governing rules of the CCP or QCCP for a cleared transaction is the full amount that is necessary to fully extinguish the net current credit exposure to the counterparty of the derivative contracts, subject to the threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the counterparty under the terms of the derivative contract or the governing rules for a cleared transaction;
(v) The variation margin is in the form of cash in the same currency as the currency of settlement set forth in the derivative contract, provided that for the purposes of this paragraph, currency of settlement means any currency for settlement specified in the governing qualifying master netting agreement and the credit support annex to the qualifying master netting agreement, or in the governing rules for a cleared transaction; and
(vi) The derivative contract and the variation margin are governed by a qualifying master netting agreement between the legal entities that are the counterparties to the derivative contract or by the governing rules for a cleared transaction, and the qualifying master netting agreement or the governing rules for a cleared transaction must explicitly stipulate that the counterparties agree to settle any payment obligations on a net basis, taking into account any variation margin received or provided under the contract if a credit event involving either counterparty occurs;
(4) The effective notional principal amount (that is, the apparent or stated notional principal amount multiplied by any multiplier in the derivative contract) of a credit derivative, or other similar instrument, through which the Enterprise provides credit protection, provided that:
(i) The Enterprise may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the amount of any reduction in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative if the reduction is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital;
(ii) The Enterprise may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative or other similar instrument, provided that the remaining maturity of the purchased credit derivative is equal to or greater than the remaining maturity of the credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection and that:
(A) With respect to a credit derivative that references a single exposure, the reference exposure of the purchased credit derivative is to the same legal entity and ranks
pari passu
with, or is junior to, the reference exposure of the credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection; or
(B) With respect to a credit derivative that references multiple exposures, the reference exposures of the purchased credit derivative are to the same legal entities and rank
pari passu
with the reference exposures of the credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection, and the level of seniority of the purchased credit derivative ranks
pari passu
to the level of seniority of the
credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection;
(C) Where an Enterprise has reduced the effective notional amount of a credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection in accordance with paragraph (4)(i) of this definition, the Enterprise must also reduce the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative used to offset the credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection, by the amount of any increase in the mark-to-fair value of the purchased credit derivative that is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(D) Where the Enterprise purchases credit protection through a total return swap and records the net payments received on a credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection in net income, but does not record offsetting deterioration in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection in net income (either through reductions in fair value or by additions to reserves), the Enterprise may not use the purchased credit protection to offset the effective notional principal amount of the related credit derivative through which the Enterprise provides credit protection;
(5) Where an Enterprise acting as a principal has more than one repo-style transaction with the same counterparty and has offset the gross value of receivables due from a counterparty under reverse repurchase transactions by the gross value of payables under repurchase transactions due to the same counterparty, the gross value of receivables associated with the repo-style transactions less any on-balance sheet receivables amount associated with these repo-style transactions included under paragraph (1) of this definition, unless the following criteria are met:
(i) The offsetting transactions have the same explicit final settlement date under their governing agreements;
(ii) The right to offset the amount owed to the counterparty with the amount owed by the counterparty is legally enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding; and
(iii) Under the governing agreements, the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or settle according to a process that is the functional equivalent of net settlement, (that is, the cash flows of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single net amount on the settlement date), where both transactions are settled through the same settlement system, the settlement arrangements are supported by cash or intraday credit facilities intended to ensure that settlement of both transactions will occur by the end of the business day, and the settlement of the underlying securities does not interfere with the net cash settlement;
(6) The counterparty credit risk of a repo-style transaction, including where the Enterprise acts as an agent for a repo-style transaction and indemnifies the customer with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty in an amount limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, calculated as follows:
(i) If the transaction is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) for transactions with a counterparty must be calculated on a transaction by transaction basis, such that each transaction i is treated as its own netting set, in accordance with the following formula, where Ei is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or provided as collateral to the counterparty, and Ci is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Enterprise has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or received as collateral from the counterparty:
E
i
* = max {0, [E
i
—C
i
]}
(ii) If the transaction is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) must be calculated as the greater of zero and the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase or provided as collateral to a counterparty for all transactions included in the
qualifying master netting agreement (ΣE
i
), less the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Enterprise borrowed, purchased subject to resale or received as collateral from the counterparty for those transactions (ΣC
i
), in accordance with the following formula:
E* = max {0, [ΣE
i
− ΣC
i
]}
(7) If an Enterprise acting as an agent for a repo-style transaction provides a guarantee to a customer of the security or cash its customer has lent or borrowed with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty and the guarantee is not limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, the amount of the guarantee that is greater than the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided;
(8) The credit equivalent amount of all off-balance sheet exposures of the Enterprise, excluding repo-style transactions, repurchase or reverse repurchase or securities borrowing or lending transactions that qualify for sales treatment under GAAP, and derivative transactions, determined using the applicable credit conversion factor under § 1240.35(b), provided, however, that the minimum credit conversion factor that may be assigned to an off-balance sheet exposure under this paragraph is 10 percent; and
(9) For an Enterprise that is a clearing member:
(i) A clearing member Enterprise that guarantees the performance of a clearing member client with respect to a cleared transaction must treat its exposure to the clearing member client as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its adjusted total assets;
(ii) A clearing member Enterprise that guarantees the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client must treat its exposure to the CCP as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its adjusted total assets;
(iii) A clearing member Enterprise that does not guarantee the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client may exclude its exposure to the CCP for purposes of determining its adjusted total assets;
(iv) An Enterprise that is a clearing member may exclude from its adjusted total assets the effective notional principal amount of credit protection sold through a credit derivative contract, or other similar instrument, that it clears on behalf of a clearing member client through a CCP as calculated in accordance with paragraph (4) of this definition; and
(v) Notwithstanding paragraphs (9)(i) through (iii) of this definition, an Enterprise may exclude from its adjusted total assets a clearing member's exposure to a clearing member client for a derivative contract, if the clearing member client and the clearing member are affiliates and consolidated for financial reporting purposes on the Enterprise's balance sheet.
Adjusted total capital
means the sum of tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital.
Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets
means:
(1) The sum of:
(i) Credit-risk-weighted assets for general credit risk (including for mortgage exposures), cleared transactions, default fund contributions, unsettled transactions, securitization exposures (including retained CRT exposures), equity exposures, and the fair value adjustment to reflect counterparty credit risk in valuation of OTC derivative contracts, each as calculated under § 1240.123.
(ii) Risk-weighted assets for operational risk, as calculated under § 1240.162(c); and
(iii) Advanced market risk-weighted assets; minus
(2) Excess eligible credit reserves not included in the Enterprise's tier 2 capital.
Advanced market risk-weighted assets
means the advanced measure for spread risk calculated under § 1240.204(a) multiplied by 12.5.
Affiliate
has the meaning given in section 1303(1) of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4502(1)).
Allowances for loan and lease losses (ALLL)
means valuation allowances that have been established through a
charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses on loans, lease financing receivables or other extensions of credit as determined in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of this part,
ALLL
includes allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses associated with off-balance sheet credit exposures as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Backtesting
means the comparison of an Enterprise's internal estimates with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development. In this context, backtesting is one form of out-of-sample testing.
Bankruptcy remote
means, with respect to an entity or asset, that the entity or asset would be excluded from an insolvent entity's estate in receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
Basis derivative contract
means a non-foreign-exchange derivative contract (
i.e.,
the contract is denominated in a single currency) in which the cash flows of the derivative contract depend on the difference between two risk factors that are attributable solely to one of the following derivative asset classes: Interest rate, credit, equity, or commodity.
Carrying value
means, with respect to an asset, the value of the asset on the balance sheet of an Enterprise as determined in accordance with GAAP. For all assets other than available-for-sale debt securities or purchased credit deteriorated assets, the carrying value is not reduced by any associated credit loss allowance that is determined in accordance with GAAP.
Central counterparty (CCP)
means a counterparty (for example, a clearing house) that facilitates trades between counterparties in one or more financial markets by either guaranteeing trades or novating contracts.
CFTC
means the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Clean-up call
means a contractual provision that permits an originating Enterprise or servicer to call securitization exposures before their stated maturity or call date.
Cleared transaction
means an exposure associated with an outstanding derivative contract or repo-style transaction that an Enterprise or clearing member has entered into with a central counterparty (that is, a transaction that a central counterparty has accepted).
(1) The following transactions are cleared transactions:
(i) A transaction between a CCP and an Enterprise that is a clearing member of the CCP where the Enterprise enters into the transaction with the CCP for the Enterprise's own account;
(ii) A transaction between a CCP and an Enterprise that is a clearing member of the CCP where the Enterprise is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client and the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 1240.3(a);
(iii) A transaction between a clearing member client Enterprise and a clearing member where the clearing member acts as a financial intermediary on behalf of the clearing member client and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP, provided that the requirements set forth in § 1240.3(a) are met; or
(iv) A transaction between a clearing member client Enterprise and a CCP where a clearing member guarantees the performance of the clearing member client Enterprise to the CCP and the transaction meets the requirements of § 1240.3(a)(2) and (3).
(2) The exposure of an Enterprise that is a clearing member to its clearing member client is not a cleared transaction where the Enterprise is either acting as a financial intermediary and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP or where the Enterprise provides a guarantee to the CCP on the performance of the client.
Clearing member
means a member of, or direct participant in, a CCP that is entitled to enter into transactions with the CCP.
Clearing member client
means a party to a cleared transaction associated with a CCP in which a clearing member acts either as a financial intermediary with respect to the party or guarantees the performance of the party to the CCP.
Client-facing derivative transaction
means a derivative contract that is not
a cleared transaction where the Enterprise is either acting as a financial intermediary and enters into an offsetting transaction with a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) or where the Enterprise provides a guarantee on the performance of a client on a transaction between the client and a QCCP.
Collateral agreement
means a legal contract that specifies the time when, and circumstances under which, a counterparty is required to pledge collateral to an Enterprise for a single financial contract or for all financial contracts in a netting set and confers upon the Enterprise a perfected, first-priority security interest (notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent), or the legal equivalent thereof, in the collateral posted by the counterparty under the agreement. This security interest must provide the Enterprise with a right to close-out the financial positions and liquidate the collateral upon an event of default of, or failure to perform by, the counterparty under the collateral agreement. A contract would not satisfy this requirement if the Enterprise's exercise of rights under the agreement may be stayed or avoided:
(1) Under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than
(i) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (1)(i) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty;
(ii) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition; or
(2) Other than to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with applicable law.
Commercial end-user
means an entity that:
(1)(i) Is using derivative contracts to hedge or mitigate commercial risk; and
(ii)(A) Is not an entity described in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(I) through (VIII) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(I) through (VIII)); or
(B) Is not a “financial entity” for purposes of section 2(h)(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)) by virtue of section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(iii)); or
(2)(i) Is using derivative contracts to hedge or mitigate commercial risk; and
(ii) Is not an entity described in section 3C(g)(3)(A)(i) through (viii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(3)(A)(i) through (viii)); or
(3) Qualifies for the exemption in section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(A)) by virtue of section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)); or
(4) Qualifies for an exemption in section 3C(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(1)) by virtue of section 3C(g)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(4)).
Commingled security
means a resecuritization of UMBS in which one or more of the underlying exposures is a UMBS guaranteed by the other Enterprise or is a resecuritization of UMBS guaranteed by the other Enterprise.
Commitment
means any legally binding arrangement that obligates an Enterprise to extend credit or to purchase assets.
Common equity tier 1 capital
is defined in § 1240.20(b).
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Core capital
has the meaning given in section 1303(7) of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4502(7)).
Corporate exposure
means an exposure to a company that is not:
(1) An exposure to a sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, a multi-lateral development bank (MDB), a depository institution, a foreign bank, a credit union, or a public sector entity (PSE);
(2) An exposure to a GSE;
(3) A mortgage exposure;
(4) A cleared transaction;
(5) A default fund contribution;
(6) A securitization exposure;
(7) An equity exposure;
(8) An unsettled transaction; or
(9) A separate account.
Credit default swap (CDS)
means a financial contract executed under standard industry documentation that allows one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer the credit risk of one or more exposures (reference exposure(s)) to another party (the protection provider) for a certain period of time.
Credit derivative
means a financial contract executed under standard industry credit derivative documentation that allows one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer the credit risk of one or more exposures (reference exposure(s)) to another party (the protection provider) for a certain period of time.
Credit-enhancing interest-only strip (CEIO)
means an on-balance sheet asset that, in form or in substance:
(1) Represents a contractual right to receive some or all of the interest and no more than a minimal amount of principal due on the underlying exposures of a securitization; and
(2) Exposes the holder of the CEIO to credit risk directly or indirectly associated with the underlying exposures that exceeds a pro rata share of the holder's claim on the underlying exposures, whether through subordination provisions or other credit-enhancement techniques.
Credit risk mitigant
means collateral, a credit derivative, or a guarantee.
Credit risk transfer (CRT)
means any traditional securitization, synthetic securitization, senior/subordinated structure, credit derivative, guarantee, or other contract, structure, or arrangement (other than primary mortgage insurance) that allows an Enterprise to transfer the credit risk of one or more mortgage exposures (reference exposure(s)) to another party (the protection provider).
Credit union
means an insured credit union as defined under the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752
et seq.
).
Credit valuation adjustment (CVA)
means the fair value adjustment to reflect counterparty credit risk in valuation of OTC derivative contracts.
CRT special purpose entity (CRT SPE)
means a corporation, trust, or other entity organized for the specific purpose of bearing credit risk transferred through a CRT, the activities of which are limited to those appropriate to accomplish this purpose.
Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL)
means the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP.
Custodian
means a financial institution that has legal custody of collateral provided to a CCP.
Default fund contribution
means the funds contributed or commitments made by a clearing member to a CCP's mutualized loss sharing arrangement.
Depository institution
means a depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Derivative contract
means a financial contract whose value is derived from the values of one or more underlying assets, reference rates, or indices of asset values or reference rates. Derivative contracts include interest rate derivative contracts, exchange rate derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, commodity derivative contracts, credit derivative contracts, and any other instrument that poses similar counterparty credit risks. Derivative contracts also include unsettled securities, commodities, and foreign exchange transactions with a contractual settlement or delivery lag that is longer than the lesser of the market standard for the particular instrument or five business days.
Discretionary bonus payment
means a payment made to an executive officer of an Enterprise, where:
(1) The Enterprise retains discretion as to whether to make, and the amount of, the payment until the payment is awarded to the executive officer;
(2) The amount paid is determined by the Enterprise without prior promise to, or agreement with, the executive officer; and
(3) The executive officer has no contractual right, whether express or implied, to the bonus payment.
Distribution
means:
(1) A reduction of tier 1 capital through the repurchase of a tier 1 capital instrument or by other means, except when an Enterprise, within the same quarter when the repurchase is
announced, fully replaces a tier 1 capital instrument it has repurchased by issuing another capital instrument that meets the eligibility criteria for:
(i) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if the instrument being repurchased was part of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital, or
(ii) A common equity tier 1 or additional tier 1 capital instrument if the instrument being repurchased was part of the Enterprise's tier 1 capital;
(2) A reduction of tier 2 capital through the repurchase, or redemption prior to maturity, of a tier 2 capital instrument or by other means, except when an Enterprise, within the same quarter when the repurchase or redemption is announced, fully replaces a tier 2 capital instrument it has repurchased by issuing another capital instrument that meets the eligibility criteria for a tier 1 or tier 2 capital instrument;
(3) A dividend declaration or payment on any tier 1 capital instrument;
(4) A dividend declaration or interest payment on any tier 2 capital instrument if the Enterprise has full discretion to permanently or temporarily suspend such payments without triggering an event of default; or
(5) Any similar transaction that FHFA determines to be in substance a distribution of capital.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376).
Early amortization provision
means a provision in the documentation governing a securitization that, when triggered, causes investors in the securitization exposures to be repaid before the original stated maturity of the securitization exposures, unless the provision:
(1) Is triggered solely by events not directly related to the performance of the underlying exposures or the originating Enterprise (such as material changes in tax laws or regulations); or
(2) Leaves investors fully exposed to future draws by borrowers on the underlying exposures even after the provision is triggered.
Effective notional amount
means for an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative, the lesser of the contractual notional amount of the credit risk mitigant and the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, multiplied by the percentage coverage of the credit risk mitigant.
Eligible clean-up call
means a clean-up call that:
(1) Is exercisable solely at the discretion of the originating Enterprise or servicer;
(2) Is not structured to avoid allocating losses to securitization exposures held by investors or otherwise structured to provide credit enhancement to the securitization; and
(3)(i) For a traditional securitization, is only exercisable when 10 percent or less of the principal amount of the underlying exposures or securitization exposures (determined as of the inception of the securitization) is outstanding; or
(ii) For a synthetic securitization or credit risk transfer, is only exercisable when 10 percent or less of the principal amount of the reference portfolio of underlying exposures (determined as of the inception of the securitization) is outstanding.
Eligible credit derivative
means a credit derivative in the form of a credit default swap, nth-to-default swap, total return swap, or any other form of credit derivative approved by FHFA, provided that:
(1) The contract meets the requirements of an eligible guarantee and has been confirmed by the protection purchaser and the protection provider;
(2) Any assignment of the contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(3) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap or nth-to-default swap, the contract includes the following credit events:
(i) Failure to pay any amount due under the terms of the reference exposure, subject to any applicable minimal payment threshold that is consistent with standard market practice and with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period of the reference exposure; and
(ii) Receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship or inability of the reference exposure issuer to pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay
its debts as they become due, and similar events;
(4) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract;
(5) If the contract allows for cash settlement, the contract incorporates a robust valuation process to estimate loss reliably and specifies a reasonable period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the reference exposure;
(6) If the contract requires the protection purchaser to transfer an exposure to the protection provider at settlement, the terms of at least one of the exposures that is permitted to be transferred under the contract provide that any required consent to transfer may not be unreasonably withheld;
(7) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap or nth-to-default swap, the contract clearly identifies the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred, specifies that this determination is not the sole responsibility of the protection provider, and gives the protection purchaser the right to notify the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event; and
(8) If the credit derivative is a total return swap and the Enterprise records net payments received on the swap as net income, the Enterprise records offsetting deterioration in the value of the hedged exposure (either through reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves).
Eligible credit reserves
means all general allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings or retained earnings to cover expected credit losses associated with on- or off-balance sheet wholesale and retail exposures, including AACL associated with such exposures. Eligible credit reserves exclude allowances that reflect credit losses on purchased credit deteriorated assets and available-for-sale debt securities and other specific reserves created against recognized losses.
Eligible funded synthetic risk transfer
means a credit risk transfer in which—
(1) A CRT SPE that is bankruptcy remote from the Enterprise and not consolidated with the Enterprise under GAAP is contractually obligated to reimburse the Enterprise for specified losses on a reference pool of mortgage exposures of the Enterprise upon designated credit events and designated modification events;
(2) The credit risk transferred to the CRT SPE is transferred to one or more third parties through two or more classes of securities of different seniority issued by the CRT SPE;
(3) The performance of each class of securities issued by the CRT SPE depends on the performance of the reference pool; and
(4) The proceeds of the securities issued by the CRT SPE—
(i) Are, at the time of entry into the transaction, in the aggregate no less than the maximum obligation of the CRT SPE to the Enterprise; and
(ii) Are invested in financial collateral that secures the payment obligations of the CRT SPE to the Enterprise.
Eligible guarantee
means a guarantee that:
(1) Is written;
(2) Is either:
(i) Unconditional, or
(ii) A contingent obligation of the U.S. government or its agencies, the enforceability of which is dependent upon some affirmative action on the part of the beneficiary of the guarantee or a third party (for example, meeting servicing requirements);
(3) Covers all or a pro rata portion of all contractual payments of the obligated party on the reference exposure;
(4) Gives the beneficiary a direct claim against the protection provider;
(5) Is not unilaterally cancelable by the protection provider for reasons other than the breach of the contract by the beneficiary;
(6) Except for a guarantee by a sovereign, is legally enforceable against the protection provider in a jurisdiction where the protection provider has sufficient assets against which a judgment may be attached and enforced;
(7) Requires the protection provider to make payment to the beneficiary on the occurrence of a default (as defined in the guarantee) of the obligated party on the reference exposure in a timely manner without the beneficiary first having to take legal actions to pursue the obligor for payment;
(8) Does not increase the beneficiary's cost of credit protection on the guarantee in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the reference exposure;
(9) Is not provided by an affiliate of the Enterprise; and
(10) Is provided by an eligible guarantor.
Eligible guarantor
means:
(1) A sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, a Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac), the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, a multilateral development bank (MDB), a depository institution, a bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
), a savings and loan holding company, a credit union, a foreign bank, or a qualifying central counterparty; or
(2) An entity (other than a special purpose entity):
(i) That at the time the guarantee is issued or anytime thereafter, has issued and outstanding an unsecured debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade;
(ii) Whose creditworthiness is not positively correlated with the credit risk of the exposures for which it has provided guarantees; and
(iii) That is not an insurance company engaged predominately in the business of providing credit protection (such as a monoline bond insurer or re-insurer).
Eligible margin loan
means:
(1) An extension of credit where:
(i) The extension of credit is collateralized exclusively by liquid and readily marketable debt or equity securities, or gold;
(ii) The collateral is marked-to-fair value daily, and the transaction is subject to daily margin maintenance requirements; and
(iii) The extension of credit is conducted under an agreement that provides the Enterprise the right to accelerate and terminate the extension of credit and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(A) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(
1
) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs,
1
or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (1)(iii)(A)(
1
) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
1
This requirement is met where all transactions under the agreement are (i) executed under U.S. law and (ii) constitute “securities contracts” under section 555 of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 555), qualified financial contracts under section 11(e)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or netting contracts between or among financial institutions.
(
2
) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (1)(iii)(A)(
1
) of this definition; and
(B) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with applicable law.
(2) In order to recognize an exposure as an eligible margin loan for purposes of this subpart, an Enterprise must comply with the requirements of § 1240.3(b) with respect to that exposure.
Eligible multifamily lender risk share
means a credit risk transfer under which an entity that is approved by an Enterprise to sell multifamily mortgage exposures to an Enterprise retains credit risk of one or more multifamily mortgage exposures on substantially the same terms and conditions as in effect on June 30, 2020 for Fannie Mae's credit risk transfers known as the
“Delegated Underwriting and Servicing program”.
Eligible reinsurance risk transfer
means a credit risk transfer in which the Enterprise transfers the credit risk on one or more mortgage exposures to an insurance company or reinsurer that has been approved by the Enterprise.
Eligible senior-subordinated structure
means a traditional securitization in which the underlying exposures are mortgage exposures of the Enterprise and the Enterprise guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on one or more senior tranches.
Eligible single-family lender risk share
means any partial or full recourse agreement or similar agreement (other than a participation agreement) between an Enterprise and the seller or servicer of a single-family mortgage exposure pursuant to which the seller or servicer agrees either to reimburse the Enterprise for losses arising out of the default of the single-family mortgage exposure or to repurchase or replace the single-family mortgage exposure in the event of the default of the single-family mortgage exposure.
Eligible time-based call
means a time-based call that:
(1) Is exercisable solely at the discretion of the originating Enterprise, provided the Enterprise obtains FHFA's non-objection prior to exercising the time-based call;
(2) Is not structured to avoid allocating credit losses to investors or otherwise structured to provide at most
de minimis
credit protection to the securitization or credit risk transfer; and
(3) Is exercisable no less than five years after the securitization or credit risk transfer issuance date or effective date, where the underlying collateral is mortgage exposures with amortization terms greater than 20 years.
(4) Is exercisable no less than four years after the securitization or credit risk transfer issuance date or effective date, where the underlying collateral is mortgage exposures with amortization terms of 20 years or less.
Equity exposure
means:
(1) A security or instrument (whether voting or non-voting and whether certificated or not certificated) that represents a direct or an indirect ownership interest in, and is a residual claim on, the assets and income of a company, unless:
(i) The issuing company is consolidated with the Enterprise under GAAP;
(ii) The Enterprise is required to deduct the ownership interest from tier 1 or tier 2 capital under this part;
(iii) The ownership interest incorporates a payment or other similar obligation on the part of the issuing company (such as an obligation to make periodic payments); or
(iv) The ownership interest is a securitization exposure;
(2) A security or instrument that is mandatorily convertible into a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(3) An option or warrant that is exercisable for a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(4) Any other security or instrument (other than a securitization exposure) to the extent the return on the security or instrument is based on the performance of a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
).
Executive officer
means a person who holds the title or, without regard to title, salary, or compensation, performs the function of one or more of the following positions: President, chief executive officer, executive chairman, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer, chief legal officer, chief lending officer, chief risk officer, or head of a major business line, and other staff that the board of directors of the Enterprise deems to have equivalent responsibility.
Exposure amount
means:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an exposure (including a mortgage exposure); (other than an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the Enterprise determines the exposure amount under § 1240.39; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the Enterprise's carrying value of the exposure.
(2) For the off-balance sheet component of an exposure (other than an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the Enterprise calculates the exposure amount under § 1240.39; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the notional amount of the off-balance sheet component multiplied by the appropriate credit conversion factor (CCF) in § 1240.35.
(3) For an exposure that is an OTC derivative contract, the exposure amount or exposure at default (EAD) determined under § 1240.36.
(4) For an exposure that is a cleared transaction, the exposure amount determined under § 1240.37.
(5) For an exposure that is an eligible margin loan or repo-style transaction for which the Enterprise calculates the exposure amount as provided in § 1240.39, the exposure amount determined under § 1240.39.
(6) For an exposure that is a securitization exposure, the exposure amount determined under § 1240.42.
Federal Deposit Insurance Act
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Federal Reserve Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Financial collateral
means collateral:
(1) In the form of:
(i) Cash on deposit with the Enterprise (including cash held for the Enterprise by a third-party custodian or trustee);
(ii) Gold bullion;
(iii) Long-term debt securities that are not resecuritization exposures and that are investment grade;
(iv) Short-term debt instruments that are not resecuritization exposures and that are investment grade;
(v) Equity securities that are publicly traded;
(vi) Convertible bonds that are publicly traded; or
(vii) Money market fund shares and other mutual fund shares if a price for the shares is publicly quoted daily; and
(2) In which the Enterprise has a perfected, first-priority security interest or, outside of the United States, the legal equivalent thereof, (with the exception of cash on deposit; and notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent or any priority security interest granted to a CCP in connection with collateral posted to that CCP).
Gain-on-sale
means an increase in the equity capital of an Enterprise resulting from a traditional securitization other than an increase in equity capital resulting from:
(1) The Enterprise's receipt of cash in connection with the securitization; or
(2) The reporting of a mortgage servicing asset.
General obligation
means a bond or similar obligation that is backed by the full faith and credit of a public sector entity (PSE).
Government-sponsored enterprise (GSE)
means an entity established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes specified by the U.S. Congress but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, including an Enterprise.
Guarantee
means a financial guarantee, letter of credit, insurance, or other similar financial instrument (other than a credit derivative) that allows one party (beneficiary) to transfer the credit risk of one or more specific exposures (reference exposure) to another party (protection provider).
Guarantee asset
means the present value of a future consideration to be received for providing a financial guarantee on a portfolio of mortgage exposures not recognized on the balance sheet.
Independent collateral
means financial collateral, other than variation margin, that is subject to a collateral agreement, or in which an Enterprise has a perfected, first-priority security interest or, outside of the United States, the legal equivalent thereof (with the exception of cash on deposit; notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent or any prior security interest granted to a CCP in connection with collateral posted to that CCP), and the amount of which does not change directly in response to the value of the derivative contract or contracts that the financial collateral secures.
Investment grade
means that the entity to which the Enterprise is exposed
through a loan or security, or the reference entity with respect to a credit derivative, has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments for the projected life of the asset or exposure. Such an entity or reference entity has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments if the risk of its default is low and the full and timely repayment of principal and interest is expected.
Minimum transfer amount
means the smallest amount of variation margin that may be transferred between counterparties to a netting set pursuant to the variation margin agreement.
Mortgage-backed security (MBS)
means a security collateralized by a pool or pools of mortgage exposures, including any pass-through or collateralized mortgage obligation.
Mortgage exposure
means either a single-family mortgage exposure or a multifamily mortgage exposure.
Multifamily mortgage exposure
means an exposure that is secured by a first or subsequent lien on a property with five or more residential units.
Mortgage servicing assets (MSAs)
means the contractual rights to service mortgage loans for a fee.
Multilateral development bank (MDB)
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, and any other multilateral lending institution or regional development bank in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which FHFA determines poses comparable credit risk.
Net independent collateral amount
means the fair value amount of the independent collateral, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 1240.39(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, that a counterparty to a netting set has posted to an Enterprise less the fair value amount of the independent collateral, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 1240.39(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, posted by the Enterprise to the counterparty, excluding such amounts held in a bankruptcy remote manner or posted to a QCCP and held in conformance with the operational requirements in § 1240.3.
Netting set
means a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement or a qualifying cross-product master netting agreement. For derivative contracts, netting set also includes a single derivative contract between an Enterprise and a single counterparty.
Non-guaranteed separate account
means a separate account where the insurance company:
(1) Does not contractually guarantee either a minimum return or account value to the contract holder; and
(2) Is not required to hold reserves (in the general account) pursuant to its contractual obligations to a policyholder.
Nth-to-default credit derivative
means a credit derivative that provides credit protection only for the nth-defaulting reference exposure in a group of reference exposures.
Original maturity
with respect to an off-balance sheet commitment means the length of time between the date a commitment is issued and:
(1) For a commitment that is not subject to extension or renewal, the stated expiration date of the commitment; or
(2) For a commitment that is subject to extension or renewal, the earliest date on which the Enterprise can, at its option, unconditionally cancel the commitment.
Originating Enterprise,
with respect to a securitization, means an Enterprise that directly or indirectly originated or securitized the underlying exposures included in the securitization.
Over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contract
means a derivative contract that is not a cleared transaction. An OTC derivative includes a transaction:
(1) Between an Enterprise that is a clearing member and a counterparty
where the Enterprise is acting as a financial intermediary and enters into a cleared transaction with a CCP that offsets the transaction with the counterparty; or
(2) In which an Enterprise that is a clearing member provides a CCP a guarantee on the performance of the counterparty to the transaction.
Participation agreement
is defined in § 1240.33(a).
Protection amount (P)
means, with respect to an exposure hedged by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative, the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative, reduced to reflect any currency mismatch, maturity mismatch, or lack of restructuring coverage (as provided in § 1240.38).
Publicly-traded
means traded on:
(1) Any exchange registered with the SEC as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act; or
(2) Any non-U.S.-based securities exchange that:
(i) Is registered with, or approved by, a national securities regulatory authority; and
(ii) Provides a liquid, two-way market for the instrument in question.
Public sector entity (PSE)
means a state, local authority, or other governmental subdivision below the sovereign level.
Qualifying central counterparty (QCCP)
means a central counterparty that:
(1)(i) Is a designated financial market utility (FMU) under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act;
(ii) If not located in the United States, is regulated and supervised in a manner equivalent to a designated FMU; or
(iii) Meets the following standards:
(A) The central counterparty requires all parties to contracts cleared by the counterparty to be fully collateralized on a daily basis;
(B) The Enterprise demonstrates to the satisfaction of FHFA that the central counterparty:
(
1
) Is in sound financial condition;
(
2
) Is subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the CFTC, or the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), or, if the central counterparty is not located in the United States, is subject to effective oversight by a national supervisory authority in its home country; and
(
3
) Meets or exceeds the risk-management standards for central counterparties set forth in regulations established by the Federal Reserve Board, the CFTC, or the SEC under Title VII or Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act; or if the central counterparty is not located in the United States, meets or exceeds similar risk-management standards established under the law of its home country that are consistent with international standards for central counterparty risk management as established by the relevant standard setting body of the Bank of International Settlements; and
(2)(i) Provides the Enterprise with the central counterparty's hypothetical capital requirement or the information necessary to calculate such hypothetical capital requirement, and other information the Enterprise is required to obtain under § 1240.37(d)(3);
(ii) Makes available to FHFA and the CCP's regulator the information described in paragraph (2)(i) of this definition; and
(iii) Has not otherwise been determined by FHFA to not be a QCCP due to its financial condition, risk profile, failure to meet supervisory risk management standards, or other weaknesses or supervisory concerns that are inconsistent with the risk weight assigned to qualifying central counterparties under § 1240.37.
(3) A QCCP that fails to meet the requirements of a QCCP in the future may still be treated as a QCCP under the conditions specified in § 1240.3(f).
Qualifying cross-product master netting agreement
means a qualifying master netting agreement that provides for termination and close-out netting across multiple types of financial transactions or qualifying master netting agreements in the event of a counterparty's default, provided that the underlying financial transactions are OTC derivative contracts, eligible margin loans, or repo-style transactions. In order to treat an agreement as a qualifying cross-product master netting agreement for purposes of this subpart, an Enterprise must comply
with the requirements of § 1240.3(c) with respect to that agreement.
Qualifying master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the Enterprise the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (2)(i)(A) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with applicable law.
Repo-style transaction
means a repurchase or reverse repurchase transaction, or a securities borrowing or securities lending transaction, including a transaction in which the Enterprise acts as agent for a customer and indemnifies the customer against loss, provided that:
(1) The transaction is based solely on liquid and readily marketable securities, cash, or gold;
(2) The transaction is marked-to-fair value daily and subject to daily margin maintenance requirements;
(3)(i) The transaction is a “securities contract” or “repurchase agreement” under section 555 or 559, respectively, of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 555 or 559), a qualified financial contract under section 11(e)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or a netting contract between or among financial institutions; or
(ii) If the transaction does not meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition, then either:
(A) The transaction is executed under an agreement that provides the Enterprise the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out the transaction on a net basis and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(
1
) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(
i
) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (3)(ii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty;
(
ii
) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (3)(ii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this definition; and
(
2
) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with applicable law; or
(B) The transaction is:
(
1
) Either overnight or unconditionally cancelable at any time by the Enterprise; and
(
2
) Executed under an agreement that provides the Enterprise the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out the transaction on a net basis and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of counterparty default; and
(
3
) In order to recognize an exposure as a repo-style transaction for purposes of this subpart, an Enterprise must comply with the requirements of § 1240.3(e) with respect to that exposure.
Resecuritization
means a securitization which has more than one underlying exposure and in which one or more of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure.
Resecuritization exposure
means:
(1) An on- or off-balance sheet exposure to a resecuritization; or
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a resecuritization exposure.
Retained CRT exposure
means, with respect to an Enterprise, any exposure that arises from a credit risk transfer of the Enterprise and has been retained by the Enterprise since the issuance or entry into the credit risk transfer by the Enterprise.
Revenue obligation
means a bond or similar obligation that is an obligation of a PSE, but which the PSE is committed to repay with revenues from the specific project financed rather than general tax funds.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78).
Securitization exposure
means:
(1) An on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet credit exposure that arises from a traditional securitization or synthetic securitization (including a resecuritization);
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a securitization exposure described in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(3) A retained CRT exposure; or
(4) An acquired CRT exposure.
Securitization special purpose entity (securitization SPE)
means a corporation, trust, or other entity organized for the specific purpose of holding underlying exposures of a securitization, the activities of which are limited to those appropriate to accomplish this purpose, and the structure of which is intended to isolate the underlying exposures held by the entity from the credit risk of the seller of the underlying exposures to the entity.
Separate account
means a legally segregated pool of assets owned and held by an insurance company and maintained separately from the insurance company's general account assets for the benefit of an individual contract holder. To be a separate account:
(1) The account must be legally recognized as a separate account under applicable law;
(2) The assets in the account must be insulated from general liabilities of the insurance company under applicable law in the event of the insurance company's insolvency;
(3) The insurance company must invest the funds within the account as directed by the contract holder in designated investment alternatives or in accordance with specific investment objectives or policies; and
(4) All investment gains and losses, net of contract fees and assessments, must be passed through to the contract holder, provided that the contract may specify conditions under which there may be a minimum guarantee but must not include contract terms that limit the maximum investment return available to the policyholder.
Servicer cash advance facility
means a facility under which the servicer of the underlying exposures of a securitization may advance cash to ensure an uninterrupted flow of payments to investors in the securitization, including advances made to cover foreclosure costs or other expenses to facilitate the timely collection of the underlying exposures.
Single-family mortgage exposure
means an exposure that is secured by a first or subsequent lien on a property with one to four residential units.
Sovereign
means a central government (including the U.S. government)
or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
Sovereign default
means noncompliance by a sovereign with its external debt service obligations or the inability or unwillingness of a sovereign government to service an existing loan according to its original terms, as evidenced by failure to pay principal and interest timely and fully, arrearages, or restructuring.
Sovereign exposure
means:
(1) A direct exposure to a sovereign; or
(2) An exposure directly and unconditionally backed by the full faith and credit of a sovereign.
Specific wrong-way risk
means wrong-way risk that arises when either:
(1) The counterparty and issuer of the collateral supporting the transaction; or
(2) The counterparty and the reference asset of the transaction, are affiliates or are the same entity.
Speculative grade
means the reference entity has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments in the near term, but is vulnerable to adverse economic conditions, such that should economic conditions deteriorate, the reference entity would present an elevated default risk.
Standardized market risk-weighted assets
means the standardized measure for spread risk calculated under § 1240.204(a) multiplied by 12.5.
Standardized total risk-weighted assets
means:
(1) The sum of—
(i) Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk as calculated under § 1240.31;
(ii) Total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions and default fund contributions as calculated under § 1240.37;
(iii) Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions as calculated under § 1240.40;
(iv) Total risk-weighted assets for retained CRT exposures, acquired CRT exposures, and other securitization exposures as calculated under § 1240.42;
(v) Total risk-weighted assets for equity exposures as calculated under § 1240.52;
(vi) Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk-weighted assets as calculated under § 1240.36(d);
(vii) Risk-weighted assets for operational risk, as calculated under § 1240.162(c) or § 1240.162(d), as applicable; and
(viii) Standardized market risk-weighted assets, as calculated under § 1240.204; minus
(2) Excess eligible credit reserves not included in the Enterprise's tier 2 capital.
Subsidiary
means, with respect to a company, a company controlled by that company.
Sub-speculative grade
means the reference entity depends on favorable economic conditions to meet its financial commitments, such that should such economic conditions deteriorate the reference entity likely would default on its financial commitments.
Synthetic securitization
means a transaction in which:
(1) All or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is retained or transferred to one or more third parties through the use of one or more credit derivatives or guarantees (other than a guarantee that transfers only the credit risk of an individual mortgage exposure or other retail exposure);
(2) The credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of seniority;
(3) Performance of the securitization exposures depends upon the performance of the underlying exposures; and
(4) All or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures (such as mortgage exposures, loans, commitments, credit derivatives, guarantees, receivables, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities, or equity securities).
Tier 1 capital
means the sum of common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital.
Tier 2 capital
is defined in § 1240.20(d).
Time-based call
means a contractual provision that permits an originating Enterprise to redeem a securitization exposure on or after a specified redemption or cancellation date.
Total capital
has the meaning given in section 1303(23) of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4502(23)).
Traditional securitization
means a transaction in which:
(1) All or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is transferred to one or more third parties other than through the use of credit derivatives or guarantees;
(2) The credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of seniority;
(3) Performance of the securitization exposures depends upon the performance of the underlying exposures;
(4) All or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures (such as mortgage exposures, loans, commitments, credit derivatives, guarantees, receivables, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities, or equity securities);
(5) The underlying exposures are not owned by an operating company;
(6) The underlying exposures are not owned by a small business investment company defined in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act;
(7) The underlying exposures are not owned by a firm an investment in which qualifies as a community development investment under section 24 (Eleventh) of the National Bank Act;
(8) FHFA may determine that a transaction in which the underlying exposures are owned by an investment firm that exercises substantially unfettered control over the size and composition of its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures is not a traditional securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance;
(9) FHFA may deem a transaction that meets the definition of a traditional securitization, notwithstanding paragraph (5), (6), or (7) of this definition, to be a traditional securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance; and
(10) The transaction is not:
(i) An investment fund;
(ii) A collective investment fund held by a State member bank as fiduciary and, consistent with local law, invested collectively—
(A) In a common trust fund maintained by such bank exclusively for the collective investment and reinvestment of monies contributed thereto by the bank in its capacity as trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, or custodian under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act; or
(B) In a fund consisting solely of assets of retirement, pension, profit sharing, stock bonus or similar trusts which are exempt from Federal income taxation under the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.).
(iii) An employee benefit plan (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(3)), a governmental plan (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code;
(iv) A synthetic exposure to the capital of a financial institution to the extent deducted from capital under § 1240.22; or
(v) Registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or foreign equivalents thereof.
Tranche
means all securitization exposures associated with a securitization that have the same seniority level.
Transition order
means an order issued by the Director under section 1371 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4631), a plan required by the Director under section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b), or an order, agreement, or similar arrangement of FHFA that, in any case, provides for a compliance date for a requirement of this part that is later than the compliance date for the requirement specified under § 1240.4.
Unconditionally cancelable
means with respect to a commitment, that an Enterprise may, at any time, with or without cause, refuse to extend credit under the commitment (to the extent permitted under applicable law).
Underlying exposures
means one or more exposures that have been securitized in a securitization transaction.
Uniform Mortgage-backed Security (UMBS)
means the same as that defined in § 1248.1.
Value-at-Risk (VaR)
means the estimate of the maximum amount that the value of one or more exposures could decline due to market price or rate movements during a fixed holding period within a stated confidence interval.
Variation margin
means financial collateral that is subject to a collateral agreement provided by one party to its counterparty to meet the performance of the first party's obligations under one or more transactions between the parties as a result of a change in value of such obligations since the last time such financial collateral was provided.
Variation margin agreement
means an agreement to collect or post variation margin.
Variation margin amount
means the fair value amount of the variation margin, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 1240.39(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, that a counterparty to a netting set has posted to an Enterprise less the fair value amount of the variation margin, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 1240.39(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, posted by the Enterprise to the counterparty.
Variation margin threshold
means the amount of credit exposure of an Enterprise to its counterparty that, if exceeded, would require the counterparty to post variation margin to the Enterprise pursuant to the variation margin agreement.
Volatility derivative contract
means a derivative contract in which the payoff of the derivative contract explicitly depends on a measure of the volatility of an underlying risk factor to the derivative contract.
Wrong-way risk
means the risk that arises when an exposure to a particular counterparty is positively correlated with the probability of default of such counterparty itself.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022; 88 FR 83474, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.3
Operational requirements for counterparty credit risk.
For purposes of calculating risk-weighted assets under subpart D of this part:
(a)
Cleared transaction.
In order to recognize certain exposures as cleared transactions pursuant to paragraphs (1)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of the definition of “cleared transaction” in § 1240.2, the exposures must meet the applicable requirements set forth in this paragraph (a).
(1) The offsetting transaction must be identified by the CCP as a transaction for the clearing member client.
(2) The collateral supporting the transaction must be held in a manner that prevents the Enterprise from facing any loss due to an event of default, including from a liquidation, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceeding of either the clearing member or the clearing member's other clients.
(3) The Enterprise must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from a default or receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions.
(4) The offsetting transaction with a clearing member must be transferable under the transaction documents and applicable laws in the relevant jurisdiction(s) to another clearing member should the clearing member default, become insolvent, or enter receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceedings.
(b)
Eligible margin loan.
In order to recognize an exposure as an eligible margin loan as defined in § 1240.2, an Enterprise must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that the agreement underlying the exposure:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(iii) of the definition of “eligible margin loan” in § 1240.2, and
(2) Is legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Qualifying master netting agreement.
In order to recognize an agreement as a qualifying master netting
agreement as defined in § 1240.2, an Enterprise must:
(1) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(i) The agreement meets the requirements of paragraph (2) of the definition of “qualifying master netting agreement” in § 1240.2; and
(ii) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(2) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of the definition of “qualifying master netting agreement” in § 1240.2.
(e)
Repo-style transaction.
In order to recognize an exposure as a repo-style transaction as defined in § 1240.2, an Enterprise must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that the agreement underlying the exposure:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraph (3) of the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 1240.2, and
(2) Is legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions.
(f)
Failure of a QCCP to satisfy the rule's requirements.
If an Enterprise determines that a CCP ceases to be a QCCP due to the failure of the CCP to satisfy one or more of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (2)(i) through (iii) of the definition of a “QCCP” in § 1240.2, the Enterprise may continue to treat the CCP as a QCCP for up to three months following the determination. If the CCP fails to remedy the relevant deficiency within three months after the initial determination, or the CCP fails to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (2)(i) through (iii) of the definition of a “QCCP” continuously for a three-month period after remedying the relevant deficiency, an Enterprise may not treat the CCP as a QCCP for the purposes of this part until after the Enterprise has determined that the CCP has satisfied the requirements in paragraphs (2)(i) through (iii) of the definition of a “QCCP” for three continuous months.
§ 1240.4
Transition.
(a)
Compliance dates.
An Enterprise will not be subject to any requirement under this part until the compliance date for the requirement under this section.
(b)
Reporting requirements.
(1) For any reporting requirement under § 1240.1(f) or § 1240.41, the compliance date will be January 1, 2022.
(2) For any reporting requirement under §§ 1240.61 through 1240.63, the compliance date will be no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.
(3) For any reporting requirement under § 1240.205, the compliance date will be no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.
(c)
Advanced approaches requirements.
Any requirement under subpart E or F (other than § 1240.162(d) or any requirement to calculate the standardized measure for spread risk under § 1240.204) will have a compliance date of the later of January 1, 2028 and any later compliance date for that requirement provided in a transition order applicable to the Enterprise.
(d)
Capital requirements and buffers
—(1)
Requirements.
The compliance date of any requirement under § 1240.10 will be the later of:
(i) The date of the termination of the conservatorship of the Enterprise (or, if later, the effective date of this part); and
(ii) Any later compliance date for § 1240.10 provided in a transition order applicable to the Enterprise.
(2)
Buffers.
The compliance date of any requirement under § 1240.11 will be the date of the termination of the conservatorship of the Enterprise (or, if later, the effective date of this part).
(3)
Capital restoration plan.
If a transition order of an Enterprise provides a
compliance date for § 1240.10, the Director may determine that, for the period between the compliance date for § 1240.11 under paragraph (d)(2) of this section and any later compliance date for § 1240.10 provided in the transition order—
(i) The prescribed capital conservation buffer amount of the Enterprise will be the amount equal to the sum of—
(A) The common equity tier 1 capital that would otherwise be required under § 1240.10(d); and
(B) The prescribed capital conservation buffer amount that would otherwise apply under § 1240.11(a)(5); and
(ii) The prescribed leverage buffer amount of the Enterprise will be equal to 4.0 percent of the adjusted total assets of the Enterprise.
(4)
Prudential standard.
If the Director makes a determination under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, § 1240.11 will be a prudential standard adopted under section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b) until the compliance date of § 1240.10.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 33429, June 2, 2022; 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]

# Subpart B—Capital Requirements and Buffers
§ 1240.10
Capital requirements.
(a)
Total capital.
An Enterprise must maintain total capital not less than the amount equal to 8.0 percent of the greater of:
(1) Standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(2) Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Adjusted total capital.
An Enterprise must maintain adjusted total capital not less than the amount equal to 8.0 percent of the greater of:
(1) Standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(2) Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(c)
Tier 1 capital.
An Enterprise must maintain tier 1 capital not less than the amount equal to 6.0 percent of the greater of:
(1) Standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(2) Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(d)
Common equity tier 1 capital.
An Enterprise must maintain common equity tier 1 capital not less than the amount equal to 4.5 percent of the greater of:
(1) Standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(2) Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(e)
Core capital.
An Enterprise must maintain core capital not less than the amount equal to 2.5 percent of adjusted total assets.
(f)
Leverage ratio.
An Enterprise must maintain tier 1 capital not less than the amount equal to 2.5 percent of adjusted total assets.
(g)
Capital adequacy.
(1) Notwithstanding the minimum requirements in this part, an Enterprise must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of all risks to which the Enterprise is exposed. The supervisory evaluation of an Enterprise's capital adequacy is based on an individual assessment of numerous factors, including the character and condition of the Enterprise's assets and its existing and prospective liabilities and other corporate responsibilities.
(2) An Enterprise must have a process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.
§ 1240.11
Capital conservation buffer and leverage buffer.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Capital conservation buffer.
An Enterprise's capital conservation buffer is the amount calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Eligible retained income.
The eligible retained income of an Enterprise is the greater of:
(i) The Enterprise's net income, as defined under GAAP, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; and
(ii) The average of the Enterprise's net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.
(3)
Leverage buffer.
An Enterprise's leverage buffer is the amount calculated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(4)
Maximum payout ratio.
The maximum payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that an Enterprise can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. The maximum payout ratio is determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(5)
Prescribed capital conservation buffer amount.
An Enterprise's prescribed capital conservation buffer amount is equal to its stress capital buffer in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section plus its applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section plus its applicable stability capital buffer in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(6)
Prescribed leverage buffer amount.
An Enterprise's prescribed leverage buffer amount is 50 percent of the Enterprise's stability capital buffer calculated in accordance with subpart G of this part.
(7)
Stress capital buffer.
(i) The stress capital buffer for an Enterprise is the stress capital buffer determined under § 1240.500 except as provided in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If an Enterprise has not yet received a stress capital buffer requirement, its stress capital buffer for purposes of this part is 0.75 percent of the Enterprise's adjusted total assets, as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter.
(b)
Maximum payout amount
—(1)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
An Enterprise shall not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed the amount equal to the Enterprise's eligible retained income for the calendar quarter, multiplied by its maximum payout ratio.
(2)
Maximum payout ratio.
The maximum payout ratio of an Enterprise is the lowest of the payout ratios determined by its capital conservation buffer and its leverage buffer, as set forth on Table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(3)
No maximum payout amount limitation.
An Enterprise is not subject to a restriction under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it has:
(i) A capital conservation buffer that is greater than its prescribed capital conservation buffer amount; and
(ii) A leverage buffer that is greater than its prescribed leverage buffer amount.
(4)
Negative eligible retained income.
An Enterprise may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if:
(i) The eligible retained income of the Enterprise is negative; and
(ii) Either:
(A) The capital conservation buffer of the Enterprise was less than its stress capital buffer; or
(B) The leverage buffer of the Enterprise was less than its prescribed leverage buffer amount.
(5)
Prior approval.
Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, FHFA may permit an Enterprise to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the Enterprise, if FHFA determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section or to the safety and soundness of the Enterprise. In making such a determination, FHFA will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
ER17DE20.011
(c)
Capital conservation buffer
—(1)
Composition of the capital conservation buffer.
The capital conservation buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Calculation of capital conservation buffer.
(i) An Enterprise's capital conservation buffer is equal to the lowest of the following, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter:
(A) The Enterprise's adjusted total capital minus the minimum amount of adjusted total capital under § 1240.10(b);
(B) The Enterprise's tier 1 capital minus the minimum amount of tier 1 capital under § 1240.10(c); or
(C) The Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital minus the minimum amount of common equity tier 1 capital under § 1240.10(d).
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, if the Enterprise's adjusted total capital, tier 1 capital, or common equity tier 1 capital is less than or equal to the Enterprise's minimum adjusted total capital, tier 1 capital, or common equity tier 1 capital, respectively, the Enterprise's capital conservation buffer is zero.
(d)
Leverage buffer
—(1)
Composition of the leverage buffer.
The leverage buffer is composed solely of tier 1 capital.
(2)
Calculation of the leverage buffer.
(i) An Enterprise's leverage buffer is equal to the Enterprise's tier 1 capital minus the minimum amount of tier 1 capital under § 1240.10(f), calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, if the Enterprise's tier 1 capital is less than or equal to the minimum amount of tier 1 capital under § 1240.10(d), the Enterprise's leverage buffer is zero.
(e)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(1)
Composition of the countercyclical capital buffer amount.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Amount
—(i)
Initial countercyclical capital buffer.
The initial countercyclical capital buffer amount is zero.
(ii)
Adjustment of the countercyclical capital buffer amount.
FHFA will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with applicable law.
(iii)
Range of countercyclical capital buffer amount.
FHFA will adjust the
countercyclical capital buffer amount between zero percent and 0.75 percent of adjusted total assets.
(iv)
Adjustment determination.
FHFA will base its decision to adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount under this section on a range of macroeconomic, financial, and supervisory information indicating an increase in systemic risk, including the ratio of credit to gross domestic product, a variety of asset prices, other factors indicative of relative credit and liquidity expansion or contraction, funding spreads, credit condition surveys, indices based on credit default swap spreads, options implied volatility, and measures of systemic risk.
(3)
Effective date of adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(i)
Increase adjustment.
A determination by FHFA under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section to increase the countercyclical capital buffer amount will be effective 12 months from the date of announcement, unless FHFA establishes an earlier effective date and includes a statement articulating the reasons for the earlier effective date.
(ii)
Decrease adjustment.
A determination by FHFA to decrease the established countercyclical capital buffer amount under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section will be effective on the day following announcement of the final determination or the earliest date permissible under applicable law or regulation, whichever is later.
(iii)
Twelve month sunset.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount will return to zero percent 12 months after the effective date that the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount is announced, unless FHFA announces a decision to maintain the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount or adjust it again before the expiration of the 12-month period.
(f)
Stability capital buffer.
An Enterprise must use its stability capital buffer calculated in accordance with subpart G of this part for purposes of determining its maximum payout ratio under Table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022; 87 FR 33617, June 3, 2022]

# Subpart C—Definition of Capital
§ 1240.20
Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
(a)
Regulatory capital components.
An Enterprise's regulatory capital components are:
(1) Common equity tier 1 capital;
(2) Additional tier 1 capital;
(3) Tier 2 capital;
(4) Core capital; and
(5) Total capital.
(b)
Common equity tier 1 capital.
Common equity tier 1 capital is the sum of the common equity tier 1 capital elements in this paragraph (b), minus regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 1240.22. The common equity tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Any common stock instruments (plus any related surplus) issued by the Enterprise, net of treasury stock, that meet all the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is paid-in, issued directly by the Enterprise, and represents the most subordinated claim in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Enterprise;
(ii) The holder of the instrument is entitled to a claim on the residual assets of the Enterprise that is proportional with the holder's share of the Enterprise's issued capital after all senior claims have been satisfied in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument has no maturity date, can only be redeemed via discretionary repurchases with the prior approval of FHFA to the extent otherwise required by law or regulation, and does not contain any term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem;
(iv) The Enterprise did not create at issuance of the instrument through any action or communication an expectation that it will buy back, cancel, or redeem the instrument, and the instrument does not include any term or feature that might give rise to such an expectation;
(v) Any cash dividend payments on the instrument are paid out of the Enterprise's net income, retained earnings, or surplus related to common stock, and are not subject to a limit imposed by the contractual terms governing the instrument.
(vi) The Enterprise has full discretion at all times to refrain from paying any dividends and making any other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of any other restrictions on the Enterprise;
(vii) Dividend payments and any other distributions on the instrument may be paid only after all legal and contractual obligations of the Enterprise have been satisfied, including payments due on more senior claims;
(viii) The holders of the instrument bear losses as they occur equally, proportionately, and simultaneously with the holders of all other common stock instruments before any losses are borne by holders of claims on the Enterprise with greater priority in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(ix) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP;
(x) The Enterprise, or an entity that the Enterprise controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument;
(xi) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Enterprise or of an affiliate of the Enterprise, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(xii) The instrument has been issued in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
(xiii) The instrument is reported on the Enterprise's regulatory financial statements separately from other capital instruments.
(2) Retained earnings.
(3) Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as reported under GAAP.
1
1
See
§ 1240.22 for specific adjustments related to AOCI.
(4) Notwithstanding the criteria for common stock instruments referenced above, an Enterprise's common stock issued and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(iii), (iv), or (xi) of this section, provided that any repurchase of the stock is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of an Enterprise that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by an Enterprise to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criterion in paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section.
(c)
Additional tier 1 capital.
Additional tier 1 capital is the sum of additional tier 1 capital elements and any related surplus, minus the regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 1240.22. Additional tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Subject to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, instruments (plus any related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in;
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to general creditors and subordinated debt holders of the Enterprise in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Enterprise or of an affiliate of the Enterprise, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iv) The instrument has no maturity date and does not contain a dividend step-up or any other term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem; and
(v) If callable by its terms, the instrument may be called by the Enterprise only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a regulatory event that precludes the instrument from being included in additional tier 1 capital, a tax event, or if the issuing entity is required to register as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
). In addition:
(A) The Enterprise must receive prior approval from FHFA to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The Enterprise does not create at issuance of the instrument, through any action or communication, an expectation that the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the Enterprise must either: Replace the instrument to be called with an equal amount of instruments that meet the criteria under paragraph (b) of this section or this paragraph (c);
2
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA that following redemption, the Enterprise will continue to hold capital commensurate with its risk.
2
Replacement can be concurrent with redemption of existing additional tier 1 capital instruments.
(vi) Redemption or repurchase of the instrument requires prior approval from FHFA.
(vii) The Enterprise has full discretion at all times to cancel dividends or other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of other restrictions on the Enterprise except in relation to any distributions to holders of common stock or instruments that are
pari passu
with the instrument.
(viii) Any distributions on the instrument are paid out of the Enterprise's net income, retained earnings, or surplus related to other additional tier 1 capital instruments.
(ix) The instrument does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Enterprise's credit quality, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Enterprise's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(x) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP.
(xi) The Enterprise, or an entity that the Enterprise controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument.
(xii) The instrument does not have any features that would limit or discourage additional issuance of capital by the Enterprise, such as provisions that require the Enterprise to compensate holders of the instrument if a new instrument is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.
(xiii) If the instrument is not issued directly by the Enterprise or by a subsidiary of the Enterprise that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the Enterprise, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the Enterprise or to the Enterprise's top-tier holding company in a form which meets or exceeds all of the other criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments.
3
3
De minimis
assets related to the operation of the issuing entity can be disregarded for purposes of this criterion.
(xiv) The governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after February 16, 2021 must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Enterprise enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Notwithstanding the criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments referenced above, an instrument issued by an Enterprise and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, provided that any repurchase is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of an Enterprise that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by an Enterprise to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1)(v) or (c)(1)(xi) of this section.
(d)
Tier 2 capital.
Tier 2 capital is the sum of tier 2 capital elements and any related surplus, minus the regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 1240.22. Tier 2 capital elements are:
(1) Subject to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, instruments (plus related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in.
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to general creditors of the Enterprise.
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Enterprise or of an affiliate of the Enterprise, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument in relation to more senior claims.
(iv) The instrument has a minimum original maturity of at least five years. At the beginning of each of the last five years of the life of the instrument, the amount that is eligible to be included in tier 2 capital is reduced by 20 percent of the original amount of the instrument (net of redemptions) and is excluded from regulatory capital when the remaining maturity is less than one year. In addition, the instrument must not have any terms or features that require, or create significant incentives for, the Enterprise to redeem the instrument prior to maturity.
4
4
An instrument that by its terms automatically converts into a tier 1 capital instrument prior to five years after issuance complies with the five-year maturity requirement of this criterion.
(v) The instrument, by its terms, may be called by the Enterprise only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called sooner upon the occurrence of an event that would preclude the instrument from being included in tier 2 capital, a tax event. In addition:
(A) The Enterprise must receive the prior approval of FHFA to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The Enterprise does not create at issuance, through action or communication, an expectation the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the Enterprise must either: Replace any amount called with an equivalent amount of an instrument that meets the criteria for regulatory capital under this section;
5
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA that following redemption, the Enterprise would continue to hold an amount of capital that is commensurate with its risk.
5
An Enterprise may replace tier 2 capital instruments concurrent with the redemption of existing tier 2 capital instruments.
(vi) The holder of the instrument must have no contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except in the event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Enterprise.
(vii) The instrument has no credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend or interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Enterprise's credit standing, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Enterprise's credit standing, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(viii) The Enterprise, or an entity that the Enterprise controls, has not purchased and has not directly or indirectly funded the purchase of the instrument.
(ix) If the instrument is not issued directly by the Enterprise or by a subsidiary of the Enterprise that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the Enterprise, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the Enterprise or the Enterprise's top-tier holding company in a form that meets or exceeds all the other criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under this section.
6
6
An Enterprise may disregard
de minimis
assets related to the operation of the issuing entity for purposes of this criterion.
(x) Redemption of the instrument prior to maturity or repurchase requires the prior approval of FHFA.
(xi) The governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after February 16, 2021 must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Enterprise enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Any eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6 percent of credit risk-weighted assets.
(e)
FHFA approval of a capital element.
(1) An Enterprise must receive FHFA prior approval to include a capital element (as listed in this section) in its common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital unless the element:
(i) Was included in an Enterprise's tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital prior to June 30, 2020 and the underlying instrument may continue to be included
under the criteria set forth in this section; or
(ii) Is equivalent, in terms of capital quality and ability to absorb losses with respect to all material terms, to a regulatory capital element FHFA determined may be included in regulatory capital pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) An Enterprise may not include an instrument in its additional tier 1 capital or a tier 2 capital unless FHFA has determined that the Enterprise has made appropriate provision, including in any resolution plan of the Enterprise, to ensure that the instrument would not pose a material impediment to the ability of an Enterprise to issue common stock instruments following the appointment of FHFA as conservator or receiver under the Safety and Soundness Act.
(3) After determining that a regulatory capital element may be included in an Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, FHFA will make its decision publicly available, including a brief description of the material terms of the regulatory capital element and the rationale for the determination.
(f)
FHFA prior approval.
An Enterprise may not repurchase or redeem any common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1, or tier 2 capital instrument without the prior approval of FHFA to the extent such prior approval is required by paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as applicable.
§ 1240.21
[Reserved]
§ 1240.22
Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
(a)
Regulatory capital deductions from common equity tier 1 capital.
An Enterprise must deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements the items set forth in this paragraph (a):
(1) Goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities (DTLs) in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Intangible assets, other than MSAs, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(3) Deferred tax assets (DTAs) that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) Any gain-on-sale in connection with a securitization exposure;
(5) Any defined benefit pension fund net asset, net of any associated DTL in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, held by the Enterprise. With the prior approval of FHFA, this deduction is not required for any defined benefit pension fund net asset to the extent the Enterprise has unrestricted and unfettered access to the assets in that fund. An Enterprise must risk weight any portion of the defined benefit pension fund asset that is not deducted under this paragraph (a) as if the Enterprise directly holds a proportional ownership share of each exposure in the defined benefit pension fund.
(6) The amount of expected credit loss that exceeds its eligible credit reserves.
(b)
Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.
(1) An Enterprise must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.
(i) An Enterprise must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.
(ii) An Enterprise must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the Enterprise's own credit risk. An Enterprise must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Deductions from regulatory capital related to investments in capital instruments.
1
An Enterprise must deduct an
investment in the Enterprise's own capital instruments as follows:
1
The Enterprise must calculate amounts deducted under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section after it calculates the amount of
ALLL or AACL, as applicable, includable in tier 2 capital under § 1240.20(d).
(1) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own common stock instruments from its common equity tier 1 capital elements to the extent such instruments are not excluded from regulatory capital under § 1240.20(b)(1);
(2) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own additional tier 1 capital instruments from its additional tier 1 capital elements; and
(3) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own tier 2 capital instruments from its tier 2 capital elements.
(d)
Items subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds.
(1) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d) that, individually, exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
(i) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An Enterprise is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section) arising from timing differences that the Enterprise could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The Enterprise must risk weight these assets at 100 percent.
(ii) MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that are not deducted as a result of the application of the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold, and that, in aggregate, exceed 17.65 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, minus adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, minus the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
2
2
The amount of the items in paragraph (d) of this section that is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to this section must be included in the risk-weighted assets of the Enterprise and assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds, an Enterprise may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An Enterprise that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An Enterprise may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of FHFA.
(e)
Netting of DTLs against assets subject to deduction.
(1) Except as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, netting of DTLs against assets that are subject to deduction under this section is permitted, but not required, if the following conditions are met:
(i) The DTL is associated with the asset; and
(ii) The DTL would be extinguished if the associated asset becomes impaired or is derecognized under GAAP.
(2) A DTL may only be netted against a single asset.
(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the threshold deduction in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of
any related valuation allowances, may be offset by DTLs (that have not been netted against assets subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section) subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (e).
(i) Only the DTAs and DTLs that relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and that are eligible for offsetting by that authority may be offset for purposes of this deduction.
(ii) The amount of DTLs that the Enterprise nets against DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and against DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, must be allocated in proportion to the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs) and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs), respectively.
(4) An Enterprise must net DTLs against assets subject to deduction under this section in a consistent manner from reporting period to reporting period. An Enterprise may change its preference regarding the manner in which it nets DTLs against specific assets subject to deduction under this section only after obtaining the prior approval of FHFA.
(f)
Insufficient amounts of a specific regulatory capital component to effect deductions.
Under the corresponding deduction approach, if an Enterprise does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the required deduction after completing the deductions required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Enterprise must deduct the shortfall from the next higher (that is, more subordinated) component of regulatory capital.
(g)
Treatment of assets that are deducted.
An Enterprise must exclude from standardized total risk-weighted assets and advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets any item deducted from regulatory capital under paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section.

# Subpart D—Risk-Weighted Assets—Standardized Approach
§ 1240.30
Applicability.
(a) This subpart sets forth methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements for the Enterprises.
(b) This subpart is also applicable to covered positions, as defined in subpart F of this part.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
§ 1240.31
Mechanics for calculating risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
(a)
General risk-weighting requirements.
An Enterprise must apply risk weights to its exposures as follows:
(1) An Enterprise must determine the exposure amount of each mortgage exposure, each other on-balance sheet exposure, each OTC derivative contract, and each off-balance sheet commitment, trade and transaction-related contingency, guarantee, repo-style transaction, forward agreement, or other similar transaction that is not:
(i) An unsettled transaction subject to § 1240.40;
(ii) A cleared transaction subject to § 1240.37;
(iii) A default fund contribution subject to § 1240.37;
(iv) A retained CRT exposure, acquired CRT exposure, or other securitization exposure subject to §§ 1240.41 through 1240.46;
(v) An equity exposure (other than an equity OTC derivative contract) subject to §§ 1240.51 and 1240.52; or
(vi) CVA risk-weighted assets subject to § 1240.36(d).
(2) An Enterprise must multiply each exposure amount by the risk weight appropriate to the exposure based on the exposure type or counterparty, eligible guarantor, or financial collateral to determine the risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure.
(b)
Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk equals the
sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts calculated under this section.
[88 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.32
General risk weights.
(a)
Exposures to the U.S. government.
(1) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, an Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to:
(i) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and
(ii) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or NCUA.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or NCUA.
(b)
Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).
An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.
(c)
Exposures to GSEs.
(1) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to any MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise (other than any retained CRT exposure).
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 5 percent risk weight to an exposure to the other Enterprise in a commingled security.
(3) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to another GSE, including an MBS guaranteed by the other Enterprise, except for exposures under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Exposures to depository institutions and credit unions.
(1) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:
(i) An equity exposure; or
(ii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 1240.22.
(e)
Exposures to U.S. public sector entities (PSEs).
(1) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(f)
Corporate exposures.
(1) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(b)(3)(i)(B).
(3) An Enterprise must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(c)(3)(i).
(g)
Residential mortgage exposures
—(1)
Single-family mortgage exposures.
An Enterprise must assign a risk weight to a single-family mortgage exposure in accordance with § 1240.33.
(2)
Multifamily mortgage exposures.
An Enterprise must assign a risk weight to
a multifamily mortgage exposure in accordance with § 1240.34.
(h)
Past due exposures.
Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a mortgage exposure, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:
(1) An Enterprise must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;
(2) An Enterprise may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 1240.38 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and
(3) An Enterprise may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 1240.39 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.
(i)
Other assets.
(1) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in the offices of an insured depository institution or in transit.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.
(3) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(4) An Enterprise must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 1240.22(d):
(i) MSAs; and
(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(5) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to guarantee assets.
(6) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 1240.22.
(j)
Insurance assets.
(1) An Enterprise must risk-weight the individual assets held in a separate account that does not qualify as a non-guaranteed separate account as if the individual assets were held directly by the Enterprise.
(2) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to an asset that is held in a non-guaranteed separate account.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.33
Single-family mortgage exposures.
(a)
Definitions.
Subject to any additional instructions set forth on table 1 to this paragraph (a), for purposes of this section:
Adjusted MTMLTV
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure and as of a particular time, the amount equal to:
(i) The MTMLTV of the single-family mortgage exposure (or, if the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure is less than 6, the OLTV of the single-family mortgage exposure); divided by
(ii) The amount equal to 1 plus either:
(A) The single-family countercyclical adjustment available at the time of the exposure's origination if the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure is less than or equal to 5; or
(B) The single-family countercyclical adjustment available as of that time if the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure is greater than or equal to 6.
Approved insurer
means an insurance company that is currently approved by an Enterprise to guarantee or insure single-family mortgage exposures acquired by the Enterprise.
Cancelable mortgage insurance
means a mortgage insurance policy that, pursuant to its terms, may or will be terminated before the maturity date of the insured single-family mortgage exposure, including as required or permitted by the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (12 U.S.C. 4901).
Charter-level coverage
means mortgage insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the authorizing statute of an Enterprise.
Cohort burnout
means the number of refinance opportunities since the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure was 6, categorized into ranges
pursuant to the instructions set forth on Table 1 to this paragraph (a).
Coverage percent
means the percent of the sum of the unpaid principal balance, any lost interest, and any foreclosure costs that is used to determine the benefit or other coverage under a mortgage insurance policy.
COVID-19-related forbearance
means a forbearance granted pursuant to section 4022 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act or under a program established by FHFA to provide forbearance to borrowers adversely impacted by COVID-19.
Days past due
means the number of days a single-family mortgage exposure is past due.
Debt-to-income ratio (DTI)
means the ratio of a borrower's total monthly obligations (including housing expense) divided by the borrower's monthly income, as calculated under the Guide of the Enterprise.
Deflated HPI
means, as of a particular time, the amount equal to:
(i) The national, not-seasonally adjusted Expanded-Data FHFA House Price Index® as of the end of the preceding calendar quarter; divided by
(ii) The average of the three monthly observations of the preceding calendar quarter from the non-seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average, All Items Less Shelter.
Guide
means, as applicable, the Fannie Mae Single Family Selling Guide, the Fannie Mae Single Family Servicing Guide and the Freddie Mac Single-family Seller/Servicers Guide.
Guide-level coverage
means mortgage insurance that satisfies the requirements of the Guide of the Enterprise with respect to mortgage insurance that has a coverage percent that exceeds charter-level coverage.
Interest-only (IO)
means a single-family mortgage exposure that requires only payment of interest without any principal amortization during all or part of the loan term.
Loan age
means the number of scheduled payment dates since the origination of a single-family mortgage exposure.
Loan-level credit enhancement
means:
(i) Mortgage insurance; or
(ii) A participation agreement.
Loan documentation
means the completeness of the documentation used to underwrite a single-family mortgage exposure, as determined under the Guide of the Enterprise.
Loan purpose
means the purpose of a single-family mortgage exposure at origination.
Long-term HPI trend
means, as of a particular time, the amount equal to: 0.66112295
e
(0.002619948*t)
.
Where
t
= the number of quarters from the first quarter of 1975 to and including the end of the preceding calendar quarter and where the first quarter of 1975 is counted as one.
1
1
FHFA will adjust the formula for the long-term HPI trend in accordance with applicable law if two conditions are satisfied as of the end of a calendar quarter that follows the last adjustment to the long-term HPI trend: (i) The average of the long-term trend departures over four consecutive calendar quarters has been less than −5.0 percent; and (ii) after the end of the calendar quarter in which the first condition is satisfied, the deflated HPI has increased to an extent that it again exceeds the long-term HPI trend. The point in time of the new trough used by FHFA to adjust the formula for the long-term HPI trend will be identified by the calendar quarter with the smallest deflated HPI in the period that includes the calendar quarter in which the first condition is satisfied and ends at the end of the calendar quarter in which the second condition is first satisfied.
Long-term trend departure
means, as of a particular time, the percent amount equal to—
(i) The deflated HPI as of that time divided by the long-term HPI trend as of that time; minus
(ii) 1.0.
MI cancelation feature
means an indicator for whether mortgage insurance is cancelable mortgage insurance or non-cancelable mortgage insurance, assigned pursuant to the instructions set forth on Table 1 to this paragraph (a).
Modification
means a permanent amendment or other change to the interest rate, maturity date, unpaid principal balance, or other contractual term of a single-family mortgage exposure or a deferral of a required payment until the maturity or earlier payoff of the single-family mortgage exposure. A modification does not include a repayment plan with respect to any
amounts that are past due or a COVID-19-related forbearance.
Modified re-performing loan (modified RPL)
means a single-family mortgage exposure (other than an NPL) that is or has been subject to a modification, excluding any single-family mortgage exposure that was not 60 or more days past due at any time in a continuous 60-calendar month period that begins at any time after the effective date of the last modification.
Months since last modification
means the number of scheduled payment dates since the effective date of the last modification of a single-family mortgage exposure.
Mortgage concentration risk
means the extent to which a mortgage insurer or other counterparty is exposed to mortgage credit risk relative to other risks.
MTMLTV
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The unpaid principal balance of the single-family mortgage exposure; divided by
(ii) The amount equal to:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of the single-family mortgage exposure at origination; divided by
(B) The OLTV of the single-family mortgage exposure; multiplied by
(C) The most recently available FHFA Purchase-only State-level House Price Index of the State in which the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure is located; divided by
(D) The FHFA Purchase-only State-level House Price Index, as of date of the origination of the single-family mortgage exposure, in which the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure is located.
Non-cancelable mortgage insurance
means a mortgage insurance policy that, pursuant to its terms, may not be terminated before the maturity date of the insured single-family mortgage exposure.
Non-modified re-performing loan (non-modified RPL)
means a single-family mortgage exposure (other than a modified RPL or an NPL) that was previously an NPL at any time in the prior 48 calendar months.
Non-performing loan (NPL)
means a single-family mortgage exposure that is 60 days or more past due.
Occupancy type
means the borrowers' intended use of the property securing a single-family mortgage exposure.
Original credit score
means the borrower's credit score as of the origination date of a single-family mortgage exposure.
OLTV (original loan-to-value)
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The unpaid principal balance of the single-family mortgage exposure at origination; divided by
(ii) The lesser of:
(A) The appraised value of the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure; and
(B) The sale price of the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure.
Origination channel
means the type of institution that originated a single-family mortgage exposure, assigned pursuant to the instructions set forth on table 1 to this paragraph (a).
Participation agreement
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, any agreement between an Enterprise and the seller of the single-family mortgage exposure pursuant to which the seller retains a participation of not less than 10 percent in the single-family mortgage exposure.
Past due
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, that any amount required to be paid by the borrower under the terms of the single-family mortgage exposure has not been paid.
Payment change from modification
means the amount, expressed as a percent, equal to:
(i) The amount equal to:
(A) The monthly payment of a single-family mortgage exposure after a modification; divided by
(B) The monthly payment of the single-family mortgage exposure before the modification; minus
(ii) 1.0.
Performing loan
means any single-family mortgage exposure that is not an NPL, a modified RPL, or a non-modified RPL.
Previous maximum days past due
means the maximum number of days a
modified RPL or non-modified RPL was past due in the prior 36 calendar months.
Product type
means an indicator reflecting the contractual terms of a single-family mortgage exposure as of the origination date, assigned pursuant to the instructions set forth on Table 1 to this paragraph (a).
Property type
means the physical structure of the property securing a single-family mortgage exposure.
Refinance opportunity
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, any calendar month in which the Primary Mortgage Market Survey (PMMS) rate for the month and year of the origination of the single-family mortgage exposure exceeds the PMMS rate for that calendar month by more than 50 basis points.
Refreshed credit score
means the borrower's most recently available credit score.
Single-family countercyclical adjustment
means, as of a particular time, zero percent except:
(i) If the long-term trend departure as of that time is greater than 5 percent, the percent amount equal to:
(A) 1.05 multiplied by the long-term HPI trend, as of that time, divided by the deflated HPI, as of that time, minus
(B) 1.0.
(ii) If the long-term trend departure as of that time is less than −5 percent, the percent amount equal to:
(A) 0.95 multiplied by the long-term HPI trend, as of that time, divided by the deflated HPI, as of that time, minus
(B) 1.0.
Streamlined refi
means a single-family mortgage exposure that was refinanced through a streamlined refinance program of an Enterprise, including the Home Affordable Refinance Program, Relief Refi, and Refi-Plus.
Subordination
means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure, the amount equal to the original unpaid principal balance of any second lien single-family mortgage exposure divided by the lesser of the appraised value or sale price of the property that secures the single-family mortgage exposure.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—Permissible Values and Additional Instructions
Defined term
Permissible values
Additional instructions
Cohort burnout
“No burnout,” if the single-family mortgage exposure has not had a refinance opportunity since the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure was 6.
High if unable to determine.
“Low,” if the single-family mortgage exposure has had 12 or fewer refinance opportunities since the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure was 6
“Medium,” if the single-family mortgage exposure has had between 13 and 24 refinance opportunities since the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure was 6
“High,” if the single-family mortgage exposure has had more than 24 refinance opportunities since the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure was 6
Coverage percent
0 percent
= coverage percent
= 100 percent
0 percent if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Days past due
Non-negative integer
210 if negative or unable to determine.
Debt-to-income (DTI) ratio
0 percent
DTI
100 percent
42 percent if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Interest-only (IO)
Yes, no
Yes if unable to determine.
Loan age
0
= loan age
= 500
500 if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Loan documentation
None, low, full
None if unable to determine.
Loan purpose
Purchase, cashout refinance, rate/term refinance
Cashout refinance if unable to determine.
MTMLTV
0 percent
MTMLTV
= 300 percent
If the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure is located in Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, use the FHFA House Price Index of the United States.
If the property securing the single-family mortgage exposure is located in Hawaii, use the FHFA Purchase-only State-level House Price Index of Guam.
If the single-family mortgage exposure was originated before 1991, use the Enterprise's proprietary housing price index.
Use geometric interpolation to convert quarterly housing price index data to monthly data.
300 percent if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Mortgage concentration risk
High, not high
High if unable to determine.
MI cancellation feature
Cancellable mortgage insurance, non-cancellable mortgage insurance
Cancellable mortgage insurance, if unable to determine.
Occupancy type
Investment, owner-occupied, second home
Investment if unable to determine.
OLTV
0 percent
OLTV
= 300 percent
300 percent if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Original credit score
300
= original credit score
= 850
If there are credit scores from multiple credit repositories for a borrower, use the following logic to determine a single original credit score:
• If there are credit scores from two repositories, take the lower credit score.
• If there are credit scores from three repositories, use the middle credit score.
• If there are credit scores from three repositories and two of the credit scores are identical, use the identical credit score.
If there are multiple borrowers, use the following logic to determine a single original credit score:
• Using the logic above, determine a single credit score for each borrower.
• Select the lowest single credit score across all borrowers.
The original credit score for the single-family mortgage exposure is 680 if the Enterprise has verified that no borrower has a credit score at any of the three repositories.
600 if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Origination channel
Retail, third-party origination (TPO)
TPO includes broker and correspondent channels. TPO if unable to determine.
Payment change from modification
−80 percent
payment change from modification
50 percent
If the single-family mortgage exposure initially had an adjustable or step-rate feature, the monthly payment after a permanent modification is calculated using the initial modified rate.
0 percent if unable to determine. −79 percent if less than or equal to −80 percent.
49 percent if greater than or equal to 50 percent.
Previous maximum days past due
Non-negative integer
181 months if negative or unable to determine.
Product type
“FRM30” means a fixed-rate single-family mortgage exposure with an original amortization term greater than 309 months and less than or equal to 429 months
“FRM20” means a fixed-rate single-family mortgage exposure with an original amortization term greater than 189 months and less than or equal to 309 months
“FRM15” means a fixed-rate single-family mortgage exposure with an amortization term less than or equal to 189 months
“ARM1/1” is an adjustable-rate single-family mortgage exposure that has a mortgage rate and required payment that adjust annually
Product types other than FRM30, FRM20, FRM15 or ARM 1/1 should be assigned to FRM30.
Use the post-modification product type for modified mortgage exposures.
ARM 1/1 if unable to determine.
Property type
1-unit, 2-4 units, condominium, manufactured home
Use condominium for cooperatives.
2-4 units if unable to determine.
Refreshed credit score
300
= refreshed credit score
= 850
If there are credit scores from multiple credit repositories for a borrower, use the following logic to determine a single refreshed credit score:
• If there are credit scores from two repositories, take the lower credit score.
• If there are credit scores from three repositories, use the middle credit score.
• If there are credit scores from three repositories and two of the credit scores are identical, use the identical credit score.
If there are multiple borrowers, use the following logic to determine a single Refreshed Credit Score:
• Using the logic above, determine a single credit score for each borrower.
• Select the lowest single credit score across all borrowers.
600 if outside of permissible range or unable to determine.
Streamlined refi
Yes, no
No if unable to determine.
Subordination
0 percent
= Subordination
= 80 percent
80 percent if outside permissible range.
(b)
Risk weight
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an Enterprise must assign a risk weight to a single-family mortgage exposure equal to:
(i) The base risk weight for the single-family mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (c) of this section; multiplied by
(ii) The combined risk multiplier for the single-family mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (d) of this section; multiplied by
(iii) The adjusted credit enhancement multiplier for the single-family mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Minimum risk weight.
Notwithstanding the risk weight determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the risk weight assigned to a single-family mortgage exposure may not be less than 20 percent.
(c)
Base risk weight
—(1)
Performing loan.
The base risk weight for a performing loan is set forth on Table 2 to this paragraph (c)(1). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), credit score means, with respect to a single-family mortgage exposure:
(i) The original credit score of the single-family mortgage exposure, if the loan age of the single-family mortgage exposure is less than 6; or
(ii) The refreshed credit score of the single-family mortgage exposure.
ER17DE20.012
(2)
Non-modified RPL.
The base risk weight for a non-modified RPL is set forth on Table 3 to this paragraph (c)(2). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), re-performing duration means, with respect to a non-modified RPL, the number of scheduled payment dates since the non-modified RPL was last an NPL.
ER17DE20.013
(3)
Modified RPL.
The base risk weight for a modified RPL is set forth on Table 4 to paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), re-performing duration means, with respect to a modified RPL, the lesser of:
(i) The months since last modification of the modified RPL; and
(ii) The number of scheduled payment dates since the modified RPL was last an NPL.
ER17DE20.014
(4)
NPL.
The base risk weight for an NPL is set forth on Table 5 to this paragraph (c)(4).
ER17DE20.015
(d)
Combined risk multiplier
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the combined risk multiplier for a single-family mortgage exposure is equal to the product of each of the applicable risk multipliers set
forth under the applicable single-family segment on Table 6 to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Maximum combined risk multiplier.
Notwithstanding the combined risk multiplier determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the combined risk multiplier for a single-family mortgage exposure may not exceed 3.0.
Table 6 to Paragraph
(d)(2)
: Risk Multipliers
Risk factor
Value or range
Single-family segment
Performing
loan
Non-
modified
RPL
Modified
RPL
NPL
Loan Purpose
Purchase
1.0
1.0
1.0
Cashout refinance
1.4
1.4
1.4
Rate/term refinance
1.3
1.2
1.3
Occupancy Type
Owner-occupied or second home
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
Investment
1.2
1.5
1.3
1.2
Property Type
1-unit
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
2-4 unit
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.1
Condominium
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0
Manufactured home
1.3
1.8
1.6
1.2
Origination Channel
Retail
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
TPO
1.1
1.1
1.1
1.0
DTI
DTI
= 25%
0.8
0.9
0.9
25%
DTI
= 40%
1.0
1.0
1.0
DTI
40%
1.2
1.2
1.1
Product Type
FRM30
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
ARM1/1
1.7
1.1
1.0
1.1
FRM15
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.5
FRM20
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.8
Subordination
No subordination
1.0
1.0
1.0
30%
OLTV
= 60% and 0%
subordination
= 5%
1.1
0.8
1.0
30%
OLTV
= 60% and subordination
5%
1.5
1.1
1.2
OLTV
60% and 0%
subordination
= 5%
1.1
1.2
1.1
OLTV
60% and subordination
5%
1.4
1.5
1.3
Loan Age
Loan age
= 24 months
1.0
24 months
loan age
= 36 months
0.95
36 months
loan Age
= 60 months
0.80
Loan age
60 months
0.75
Cohort Burnout
No burnout
1.0
Low
1.2
Medium
1.3
High
1.4
Interest-only
No IO
1.0
1.0
1.0
Yes IO
1.6
1.4
1.1
Loan Documentation
Full
1.0
1.0
1.0
None or low
1.3
1.3
1.2
Streamlined Refi
No
1.0
1.0
1.0
Yes
1.0
1.2
1.1
Refreshed Credit Score for Modified RPLs and Non-modified RPLs
Refreshed credit score
620
620
= refreshed credit score
640
1.6
1.3
1.4
1.2
640
= refreshed credit score
660
1.2
1.1
660
= refreshed credit score
700
1.0
1.0
700
= refreshed credit score
720
0.7
0.8
720
= refreshed credit score
740
0.6
0.7
740
= refreshed credit score
760
0.5
0.6
760
= refreshed credit score
780
0.4
0.5
Refreshed credit score
= 780
0.3
0.4
Payment Change from Modification
Payment change
= 0%
1.1
−20%
= payment change
0%
1.0
−30%
= payment change
−20%
0.9
Payment change
−30%
0.8
Previous Maximum Days Past Due
0-59 days
1.0
1.0
60-90 days
1.2
1.1
91-150 days
1.3
1.1
151+ days
1.5
1.1
Refreshed Credit Score for NPLs
Refreshed credit score
580
1.2
580
= refreshed credit score
640
1.1
640
= refreshed credit score
700
1.0
700
= refreshed credit score
720
0.9
720
= refreshed credit score
760
0.8
760
= refreshed credit score
780
0.7
Refreshed credit score
= 780
0.5
(e)
Credit enhancement multiplier
—(1)
Amount
—(i)
In general.
The adjusted credit enhancement multiplier for a single-family mortgage exposure that is subject to loan-level credit enhancement is equal to 1.0 minus the product of:
(A) 1.0 minus the credit enhancement multiplier for the single-family mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; multiplied by
(B) 1.0 minus the counterparty haircut for the loan-level credit enhancement as determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(ii)
No loan-level credit enhancement.
The adjusted credit enhancement multiplier for a single-family mortgage exposure that is not subject to loan-level credit enhancement is equal to 1.0.
(2)
Credit enhancement multiplier.
(i) The credit enhancement multiplier for a single-family mortgage exposure that is subject to a participation agreement is 1.0.
(ii) Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the credit enhancement multiplier for—
(A) A performing loan, non-modified RPL, or modified RPL that is subject to non-cancelable mortgage insurance is set forth on Table 7 to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section;
(B) A performing loan or non-modified RPL that is subject to cancelable mortgage insurance is set forth on Table 8 to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section;
(C) A modified RPL with a 30-year post-modification amortization that is subject to cancelable mortgage insurance is set forth on Table 9 to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section;
(D) A modified RPL with a 40-year post-modification amortization that is subject to cancelable mortgage insurance is set forth on Table 10 to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section; and
(E) NPL, whether subject to non-cancelable mortgage insurance or cancelable mortgage insurance, is set forth on Table 11 to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph (e), for purposes of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section:
(A) The OLTV of a single-family mortgage exposure will be deemed to be 80 percent if the single-family mortgage exposure has an OLTV less than or equal to 80 percent.
(B) If the single-family mortgage exposure has an interest-only feature, any cancelable mortgage insurance will be deemed to be non-cancelable mortgage insurance.
(C) If the coverage percent of the mortgage insurance is greater than charter-level coverage and less than guide-level coverage, the credit enhancement multiplier is the amount equal to a linear interpolation between the credit enhancement multiplier of the single-family mortgage exposure for charter-level coverage and the credit enhancement multiplier of the single-family mortgage exposure for guide-level coverage.
(D) If the coverage percent of the mortgage insurance is less than charter-level coverage, the credit enhancement multiplier is the amount equal to the midpoint of a linear interpolation between a credit enhancement multiplier of 1.0 and the credit enhancement
multiplier of the single-family mortgage exposure for charter-level coverage.
(E) If the coverage percent of the mortgage insurance is greater than guide-level coverage, the credit enhancement multiplier is determined as if the coverage percent were guide-level coverage.
ER17DE20.018
ER17DE20.019
ER17DE20.020
ER17DE20.021
ER17DE20.022
(3)
Credit enhancement counterparty haircut
—(i)
Counterparty rating
—(A)
In general.
For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), the counterparty rating for a counterparty is—
(
1
) 1, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty has extremely strong capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress;
(
2
) 2, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty has very strong capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress;
(
3
) 3, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty has strong capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress;
(
4
) 4, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty has adequate capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress;
(
5
) 5, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty does not have adequate capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress but does have adequate capacity to perform its financial obligations in an adverse stress;
(
6
) 6, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty does not have adequate capacity to perform its financial obligations in an adverse stress;
(
7
) 7, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty's capacity to perform its financial obligations is questionable under prevailing economic conditions;
(
8
) 8, if the Enterprise has determined that the counterparty is in default on a material contractual obligation (including any obligation with respect to collateral requirements) or is under a resolution proceeding or similar regulatory proceeding.
(B)
Required considerations.
(
1
) In determining the capacity of a counterparty to perform its financial obligations, the Enterprise must consider the likelihood that the counterparty will not perform its material obligations with respect to the posting of collateral and the payment of any amounts payable under its contractual obligations.
(
2
) A counterparty does not have an adequate capacity to perform its financial obligations in a severely adverse stress if there is a material risk that the counterparty would fail to timely
perform any financial obligation in a severely adverse stress.
(ii)
Counterparty haircut.
The counterparty haircut is set forth on table 12 to this paragraph (e)(3)(ii). For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3)(ii), RPL means either a modified RPL or a non-modified RPL.
ER17DE20.023
(f)
COVID-19-related forbearances
—(1)
During forbearance.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the base risk weight for an NPL is equal to the product of 0.45 and the base risk weight that would otherwise be assigned to the NPL under paragraph (c)(4) of this section if the NPL—
(i) Is subject to a COVID-19-related forbearance; or
(ii) Was subject to a COVID-19-related forbearance at any time in the prior 6 calendar months and is subject to a trial modification plan.
(2)
After forbearance.
Notwithstanding the definition of “past due” under paragraph (a) of this section, any period of time in which a single-family mortgage exposure was past due while subject to a COVID-19-related forbearance is to be disregarded for the purpose of assigning a risk weight under this section if the entire amount past due was repaid upon the termination of the COVID-19-related forbearance.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022; 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.34
Multifamily mortgage exposures.
(a)
Definitions.
Subject to any additional instructions set forth on Table 1 to this paragraph (a), for purposes of this section:
Acquisition debt-service-coverage ratio (acquisition DSCR)
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The net operating income (NOI) (or, if not available, the net cash flow) of the multifamily property that secures the multifamily mortgage exposure, at the time of the acquisition by the Enterprise (or, if not available, at the time of the underwriting or origination) of the multifamily mortgage exposure; divided by
(ii) The scheduled periodic payment on the multifamily mortgage exposure (or, if interest-only, fully amortizing
payment), at the time of the acquisition by the Enterprise (or, if not available, at the time of the origination) of the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Acquisition loan-to-value (acquisition LTV)
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount, determined as of the time of the acquisition by the Enterprise (or, if not available, at the time of the underwriting or origination) of the multifamily mortgage exposure, equal to:
(i) The unpaid principal balance of the multifamily mortgage exposure; divided by
(ii) The value of the multifamily property securing the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Affordable unit
means a unit within a property securing a multifamily mortgage exposure that can be rented by occupants with income less than or equal to 80 percent of the area median income where the property resides.
Debt-service-coverage ratio
(
DSCR)
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure:
(i) The acquisition DSCR of the multifamily mortgage exposure if the loan age of the multifamily mortgage exposure is less than 6; or
(ii) The MTMDSCR of the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Government subsidy
means that the property satisfies both of the following criteria:
(i) At least 20 percent of the property's units are restricted to be affordable units per a regulatory agreement, recorded use restriction, a housing-assistance payments contract, or other restrictions codified in loan agreements; and
(ii) The property benefits from one of the following government programs:
(A) Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC);
(B) Section 8 project-based rental assistance;
(C) Section 515 Rural Rental Housing Loans; or
(D) State/Local affordable housing programs that require the provision of affordable housing for the life of the loan.
Interest-only (IO)
means a multifamily mortgage exposure that requires only payment of interest without any principal amortization during all or part of the loan term.
Loan age
means the number of scheduled payment dates since the origination of the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Loan term
means the number of years until final loan payment (which may be a balloon payment) under the terms of a multifamily mortgage exposure.
LTV
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure;
(i) The acquisition LTV of the multifamily mortgage exposure if the loan age of the multifamily mortgage exposure is less than 6, or
(ii) The MTMLTV of the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Mark-to-market debt-service coverage ratio (MTMDSCR)
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount equal to—
(i) The net operating income (or, if not available, the net cash flow) of the multifamily property that secures the multifamily mortgage exposure, as reported on the most recently available property operating statement; divided by
(ii) The scheduled periodic payment on the multifamily mortgage exposure (or, for interest-only, fully amortizing payment), as reported on the most recently available property operating statement.
Mark-to-market loan-to-value (MTMLTV)
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The unpaid principal balance of the multifamily mortgage exposure; divided by
(ii) The current value of the property security the multifamily mortgage exposure, estimated using either:
(A) The acquisition property value adjusted using a multifamily property value index; or
(B) The property value estimated based on net operating income and capitalization rate indices.
Multifamily adjustable-rate exposure
means a multifamily mortgage exposure that is not, at that time, a multifamily fixed-rate exposure.
Multifamily fixed-rate exposure
means a multifamily mortgage exposure that, at that time, has an interest rate that may not then increase or decrease
based on a change in a reference index or other methodology, including:
(i) A multifamily mortgage exposure that has an interest rate that is fixed over the life of the loan; and
(ii) A multifamily mortgage exposure that has an interest rate that may increase or decrease in the future, but is fixed at that time.
Net cash flow
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The net operating income of the multifamily mortgage exposure; minus
(ii) Reserves for capital improvements; minus
(iii) Other expenses not included in net operating income required for the proper operation of the multifamily property securing the multifamily mortgage exposure, including any commissions paid to leasing agents in securing renters and special improvements to the property to accommodate the needs of certain renters.
Net operating income
means, with respect to a multifamily mortgage exposure, the amount equal to:
(i) The rental income generated by the multifamily property securing the multifamily mortgage exposure; minus
(ii) The vacancy and property operating expenses of the multifamily property securing the multifamily mortgage exposure.
Original amortization term
means the number of years, determined as of the time of the origination of a multifamily mortgage exposure, that it would take a borrower to pay a multifamily mortgage exposure completely if the borrower only makes the scheduled payments, and without making any balloon payment.
Original loan size
means the dollar amount of the unpaid principal balance of a multifamily mortgage exposure at origination.
Payment performance
means the payment status of history of a multifamily mortgage exposure, assigned pursuant to the instructions set forth on table 1 to this paragraph (a).
Supplemental mortgage exposure
means any multifamily fixed-rate exposure or multifamily adjustable-rate exposure that is originated after the origination of a multifamily mortgage exposure that is secured by all or part of the same multifamily property.
Unpaid principal balance (UPB)
means the outstanding loan amount of a multifamily mortgage exposure.

# Table 1 to Paragraph (
a

# )—Permissible Values and Additional Instructions
ER30NO23.028
(b)
Risk weight
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, an Enterprise must assign a risk weight to a multifamily mortgage exposure equal to:
(i) The base risk weight for the multifamily mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (c) of this section; multiplied by
(ii) The combined risk multiplier for the multifamily mortgage exposure as determined under paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Minimum risk weight.
Notwithstanding the risk weight determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the risk weight assigned to a multifamily mortgage exposure may not be less than 20 percent.
(3)
Loan groups.
If a multifamily property that secures a multifamily mortgage exposure also secures one or more supplemental mortgage exposures:
(i) A multifamily mortgage exposure-specific base risk weight must be determined under paragraph (c) of this section using for each of these multifamily mortgage exposures a single DSCR and single LTV, both calculated as if all of the multifamily mortgage exposures secured by the multifamily property were consolidated into a single multifamily mortgage exposure; and
(ii) A multifamily mortgage exposure-specific combined risk multiplier must be determined under paragraph (d) of this section based on the risk characteristics of the multifamily mortgage exposure (except with respect to the loan size multiplier, which
would be determined using the aggregate unpaid principal balance of these multifamily mortgage exposures).
(c)
Base risk weight
—(1)
Multifamily fixed-rate exposure.
The base risk weight for a multifamily fixed-rate exposure is set forth on table 2 to this paragraph (c)(1).
ER17DE20.025
(2)
Multifamily adjustable-rate exposure.
The base risk weight for a multifamily adjustable-rate exposure is set forth on table 3 to this paragraph (c)(2).
ER17DE20.026
(d)
Combined risk multiplier.
The combined risk multiplier for a multifamily mortgage exposure is equal to the product of each of the applicable risk multipliers set forth on table 4 to this paragraph (d).

# Table 4 to Paragraph (
d

# )—Multifamily Risk Multipliers
ER30NO23.029
1
If a multifamily mortgage exposure is collateralized by multiple properties, calculate a weighted average government subsidy multiplier by assigning a 0.6 multiplier to each property with a government subsidy and 1.0 multiplier to each property without a government subsidy, and using the total number of units in a property as weights.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83478, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.35
Off-balance sheet exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) An Enterprise must calculate the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet exposure using the credit conversion factors (CCFs) in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Where an Enterprise commits to provide a commitment, the Enterprise may apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.
(3) Where an Enterprise provides a commitment structured as a syndication or participation, the Enterprise is only required to calculate the exposure amount for its pro rata share of the commitment.
(4) Where an Enterprise provides a commitment or enters into a repurchase agreement and such commitment or repurchase agreement, the exposure amount shall be no greater than the maximum contractual amount of the commitment or repurchase agreement, as applicable.
(b)
Credit conversion factors
—(1)
Zero percent CCF.
An Enterprise must apply a zero percent CCF to the unused portion of a commitment that is unconditionally cancelable by the Enterprise.
(2)
20 percent CCF.
An Enterprise must apply a 20 percent CCF to the amount of commitments with an original maturity of one year or less that are not unconditionally cancelable by the Enterprise.
(3)
50 percent CCF.
An Enterprise must apply a 50 percent CCF to:
(i) The amount of commitments with an original maturity of more than one year that are not unconditionally cancelable by the Enterprise; and
(ii) Guarantees on exposures to the other Enterprise in commingled securities.
(4)
100 percent CCF.
An Enterprise must apply a 100 percent CCF to the amount of the following off-balance sheet items and other similar transactions:
(i) Guarantees, except guarantees included in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Repurchase agreements (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the Enterprise has sold subject to repurchase);
(iii) Off-balance sheet securities lending transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the Enterprise has lent under the transaction);
(iv) Off-balance sheet securities borrowing transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all non-cash positions the Enterprise has posted as collateral under the transaction); and
(v) Forward agreements.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83480, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.36
Derivative contracts.
(a)
Exposure amount for derivative contracts.
An Enterprise must calculate the exposure amount or EAD for all its derivative contracts using the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) in paragraph (c) of this section for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets. An Enterprise must apply the treatment of cleared transactions under § 1240.37 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions and to all default fund contributions associated with such derivative contracts for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Methodologies for collateral recognition.
(1) An Enterprise may use the methodologies under § 1240.39 to recognize the benefits of financial collateral in mitigating the counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized OTC derivative contracts and single product netting sets of such transactions.
(2) An Enterprise must use the methodology in paragraph (c) of this section to calculate EAD for an OTC derivative contract or a set of OTC derivative
contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement.
(3) An Enterprise must also use the methodology in paragraph (d) of this section to calculate the risk-weighted asset amounts for CVA for OTC derivatives.
(c)
EAD for derivative contracts
—(1)
Options for determining EAD.
An Enterprise must determine the EAD for a derivative contract using SA-CCR under paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The exposure amount determined under SA-CCR is the EAD for the derivative contract or derivatives contracts. An Enterprise must use the same methodology to calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts. An Enterprise may reduce the EAD calculated according to paragraph (c)(5) of this section by the credit valuation adjustment that the Enterprise has recognized in its balance sheet valuation of any derivative contracts in the netting set. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), the credit valuation adjustment does not include any adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital attributable to changes in the fair value of the Enterprise's liabilities that are due to changes in its own credit risk since the inception of the transaction with the counterparty.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the following definitions apply:
(i)
End date
means the last date of the period referenced by an interest rate or credit derivative contract or, if the derivative contract references another instrument, by the underlying instrument, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c).
(ii)
Start date
means the first date of the period referenced by an interest rate or credit derivative contract or, if the derivative contract references the value of another instrument, by underlying instrument, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c).
(iii)
Hedging set
means:
(A) With respect to interest rate derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same reference currency;
(B) With respect to exchange rate derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same currency pair;
(C) With respect to credit derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set;
(D) With respect to equity derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set;
(E) With respect to a commodity derivative contract, all such contracts within a netting set that reference one of the following commodity categories: Energy, metal, agricultural, or other commodities;
(F) With respect to basis derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same pair of risk factors and are denominated in the same currency; or
(G) With respect to volatility derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference one of interest rate, exchange rate, credit, equity, or commodity risk factors, separated according to the requirements under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(H) If the risk of a derivative contract materially depends on more than one of interest rate, exchange rate, credit, equity, or commodity risk factors, FHFA may require an Enterprise to include the derivative contract in each appropriate hedging set under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(3)
Credit derivatives.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section:
(i) An Enterprise that purchases a credit derivative that is recognized under § 1240.38 as a credit risk mitigant for an exposure is not required to calculate a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this section so long as the Enterprise does so consistently for all such credit derivatives and either includes or excludes all such credit derivatives that are subject to a master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes.
(ii) An Enterprise that is the protection provider in a credit derivative must treat the credit derivative as an exposure to the reference obligor and is not required to calculate a counterparty credit risk capital requirement for the credit derivative under this section, so long as it does so
consistently for all such credit derivatives and either includes all or excludes all such credit derivatives that are subject to a master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes.
(4)
Equity derivatives.
An Enterprise must treat an equity derivative contract as an equity exposure and compute a risk-weighted asset amount for the equity derivative contract under § 1240.51. In addition, if an Enterprise is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part, the Enterprise must also calculate a risk-based capital requirement for the counterparty credit risk of an equity derivative contract under this section.
(5)
Exposure amount.
(i) The exposure amount of a netting set, as calculated under this paragraph (c), is equal to 1.4 multiplied by the sum of the replacement cost of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, and the potential future exposure of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding a netting set that is subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty to the variation margin agreement is not required to post variation margin, is equal to the lesser of the exposure amount of the netting set calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and the exposure amount of the netting set calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) as if the netting set were not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(iii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set that consists of only sold options in which the premiums have been fully paid by the counterparty to the options and where the options are not subject to a variation margin agreement is zero.
(iv) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set in which the counterparty is a commercial end-user is equal to the sum of replacement cost, as calculated under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, and the potential future exposure of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(v) For purposes of the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and all calculations that are part of that exposure amount, an Enterprise may elect to treat a derivative contract that is a cleared transaction that is not subject to a variation margin agreement as one that is subject to a variation margin agreement, if the derivative contract is subject to a requirement that the counterparties make daily cash payments to each other to account for changes in the fair value of the derivative contract and to reduce the net position of the contract to zero. If an Enterprise makes an election under this paragraph (c)(5)(v) for one derivative contract, it must treat all other derivative contracts within the same netting set that are eligible for an election under this paragraph (c)(5)(v) as derivative contracts that are subject to a variation margin agreement.
(vi) For purposes of the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and all calculations that are part of that exposure amount, an Enterprise may elect to treat a credit derivative contract, equity derivative contract, or commodity derivative contract that references an index as if it were multiple derivative contracts each referencing one component of the index.
(6)
Replacement cost of a netting set
—(i)
Netting set subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin.
The replacement cost of a netting set subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding a netting set that is subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is the greater of:
(A) The sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set less the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to such derivative contracts;
(B) The sum of the variation margin threshold and the minimum transfer amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting set less the net independent collateral amount applicable to such derivative contracts; or
(C) Zero.
(ii)
Netting sets not subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin.
The replacement cost of a netting set that is not subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin to the Enterprise is the greater of:
(A) The sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set less the sum of the net independent collateral amount and variation margin amount applicable to such derivative contracts; or
(B) Zero.
(iii)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, the replacement cost for multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section.
(iv)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, the replacement cost for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this section.
(7)
Potential future exposure of a netting set.
The potential future exposure of a netting set is the product of the PFE multiplier and the aggregated amount.
(i)
PFE multiplier.
The PFE multiplier is calculated according to the following formula:
ER30NO23.030
Where:
(A) V is the sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set;
(B) C is the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting set; and
(C) A is the aggregated amount of the netting set.
(ii)
Aggregated amount.
The aggregated amount is the sum of all hedging set amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(8) of this section, within a netting set.
(iii)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section and when calculating the potential future exposure for purposes of adjusted total assets, the potential future exposure for multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(10)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section and when calculating the potential future exposure for purposes of adjusted total assets, the potential future exposure for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(11)(ii) of this section.
(8)
Hedging set amount
—(i)
Interest rate derivative contracts.
To calculate the hedging set amount of an interest rate derivative contract hedging set, an Enterprise may use either of the formulas provided in paragraphs (c)(8)(i)(A) and (B) of this section:
(A) Formula 1 is as follows:
ER30NO23.031
(B) Formula 2 is as follows:
ER30NO23.032
Where in paragraphs (c)(8)(i)(A) and (B) of this section:
(
1
)
AddOn
TB
1
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of less than one year from the present date;
(
2
)
AddOn
TB
2
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of one to five years from the present date; and
(
3
)
AddOn
TB
3
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of more than five years from the present date.
(ii)
Exchange rate derivative contracts.
For an exchange rate derivative contract hedging set, the hedging set amount equals the absolute value of the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set.
(iii)
Credit derivative contracts and equity derivative contracts.
The hedging set amount of a credit derivative contract hedging set or equity derivative contract hedging set within a netting set is calculated according to the following formula:
ER30NO23.033
Where:
(A) k is each reference entity within the hedging set.
(B) K is the number of reference entities within the hedging set.
(C)
AddOn(Ref
k
) equals the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as determined under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, for all derivative contracts within the hedging set that reference reference entity k.
(D) ρ
k
Pkequals the applicable supervisory correlation factor, as provided in table 2 to paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B)(
2
).
(iv)
Commodity derivative contracts.
The hedging set amount of a commodity derivative contract hedging set within a netting set is calculated according to the following formula:
ER30NO23.034
Where:
(A) k is each commodity type within the hedging set.
(B) K is the number of commodity types within the hedging set.
(C)
AddOn (Type
k
)
equals the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as determined under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, for all derivative contracts within the hedging set that reference commodity type.
(D)
P
equals the applicable supervisory correlation factor, as provided in table 2 to paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B)(
2
).
(v)
Basis derivative contracts and volatility derivative contracts.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section, an Enterprise must calculate a separate hedging set amount for each basis derivative contract hedging set and each volatility derivative contract hedging set. An Enterprise must calculate such hedging set amounts using one of the formulas under paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iv) that corresponds to the primary risk factor of the hedging set being calculated.
(9)
Adjusted derivative contract amount
—(i)
Summary.
To calculate the adjusted derivative contract amount of a derivative contract, an Enterprise must determine the adjusted notional amount of derivative contract, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section, and multiply the adjusted notional amount by each of the supervisory delta adjustment, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(iii) of this section, the maturity factor, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(iv) of this section, and the applicable supervisory factor, as provided in table 2 to paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B)(
2
).
(ii)
Adjusted notional amount.
(A)(
1
) For an interest rate derivative contract or a credit derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount equals the product of the notional amount of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation, and the supervisory duration, as calculated by the following formula:
ER30NO23.035
Where:
(
i
) S is the number of business days from the present day until the start date of the derivative contract, or zero if the start date has already passed; and
(
ii
) E is the number of business days from the present day until the end date of the derivative contract.
(
2
) For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section:
(
i
) For an interest rate derivative contract or credit derivative contract that is a variable notional swap, the notional amount is equal to the time-weighted average of the contractual notional amounts of such a swap over the remaining life of the swap; and
(
ii
) For an interest rate derivative contract or a credit derivative contract that is a leveraged swap, in which the notional amount of all legs of the derivative contract are divided by a factor and all rates of the derivative contract are multiplied by the same factor, the notional amount is equal to the notional amount of an equivalent unleveraged swap.
(B)(
1
) For an exchange rate derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount is the notional amount of the non-U.S. denominated currency leg of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation. If both legs
of the exchange rate derivative contract are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, the adjusted notional amount of the derivative contract is the largest leg of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, for an exchange rate derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the Enterprise must set the adjusted notional amount of the derivative contract equal to the notional amount of the derivative contract multiplied by the number of exchanges of principal under the derivative contract.
(C)(
1
) For an equity derivative contract or a commodity derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount is the product of the fair value of one unit of the reference instrument underlying the derivative contract and the number of such units referenced by the derivative contract.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(C)(
1
) of this section, when calculating the adjusted notional amount for an equity derivative contract or a commodity derivative contract that is a volatility derivative contract, the Enterprise must replace the unit price with the underlying volatility referenced by the volatility derivative contract and replace the number of units with the notional amount of the volatility derivative contract.
(iii)
Supervisory delta adjustments.
(A) For a derivative contract that is not an option contract or collateralized debt obligation tranche, the supervisory delta adjustment is 1 if the fair value of the derivative contract increases when the value of the primary risk factor increases and −1 if the fair value of the derivative contract decreases when the value of the primary risk factor increases.
(B)(
1
) For a derivative contract that is an option contract, the supervisory delta adjustment is determined by the following formulas, as applicable:

# Table 1 to Paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(B)(
1

# )—Supervisory Delta Adjustment for Options Contracts
ER30NO23.036
(
2
) As used in the formulas in table 1 to paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(B)(
1
):
(
i
)
E
is the standard normal cumulative distribution function;
(
ii
) P equals the current fair value of the instrument or risk factor, as applicable, underlying the option;
(
iii
) K equals the strike price of the option;
(
iv
) T equals the number of business days until the latest contractual exercise date of the option;
(
v
) λ equals zero for all derivative contracts except interest rate options for the currencies where interest rates have negative values. The same value of λ must be used for all interest rate options that are denominated in the same currency. To determine the value of λ for a given currency, an Enterprise must find the lowest value L of P and K of all interest rate options in a given currency that the Enterprise has with all counterparties. Then, λ is set according to this formula:
λ = max{−L + 0.1%, 0}; and
(
vi
) σ equals the supervisory option volatility, as provided in table 2 to paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B)(
2
).
(C)(
1
) For a derivative contract that is a collateralized debt obligation tranche, the supervisory delta adjustment is determined by the following formula:
ER30NO23.037
(
2
) As used in the formula in paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(C)(1) of this section:
(
i
) A is the attachment point, which equals the ratio of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures, expressed as a decimal value between zero and one;
1
1
In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n−1) notional amounts of the underlying exposures are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure.
(
ii
) D is the detachment point, which equals one minus the ratio of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are senior to the Enterprise's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures, expressed as a decimal value between zero and one; and
(
iii
) The resulting amount is designated with a positive sign if the collateralized debt obligation tranche was purchased by the Enterprise and is designated with a negative sign if the collateralized debt obligation tranche was sold by the Enterprise.
(iv)
Maturity factor.
(A)(
1
) The maturity factor of a derivative contract that is subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding derivative contracts that are subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is determined by the following formula:
ER30NO23.038
Where Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) refers to the period from the most recent exchange of collateral covering a netting set of derivative contracts with a defaulting counterparty until the derivative contracts are closed out and the resulting market risk is re-hedged.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) of this section:
(
i
) For a derivative contract that is not a client-facing derivative transaction, MPOR cannot be less than ten business days plus the periodicity of re-margining expressed in business days minus one business day;
(
ii
) For a derivative contract that is a client-facing derivative transaction, cannot be less than five business days plus the periodicity of re-margining expressed in business days minus one business day; and
(
iii
) For a derivative contract that is within a netting set that is composed of more than 5,000 derivative contracts that are not cleared transactions, or a netting set that contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or a derivative contract that cannot be easily replaced, MPOR cannot be less than twenty business days.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, for a netting set subject to more than two outstanding disputes over margin that lasted longer than the MPOR over the previous two quarters, the applicable floor is twice the amount provided in paragraphs (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(B) The maturity factor of a derivative contract that is not subject to a
variation margin agreement, or derivative contracts under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is determined by the following formula:
ER30NO23.039
Where M equals the greater of 10 business days and the remaining maturity of the contract, as measured in business days.
(C) For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(iv) of this section, if an Enterprise has elected pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section to treat a derivative contract that is a cleared transaction that is not subject to a variation margin agreement as one that is subject to a variation margin agreement, the Enterprise must treat the derivative contract as subject to a variation margin agreement with maturity factor as determined according to (c)(9)(iv)(A) of this section, and daily settlement does not change the end date of the period referenced by the derivative contract.
(v)
Derivative contract as multiple effective derivative contracts.
An Enterprise must separate a derivative contract into separate derivative contracts, according to the following rules:
(A) For an option where the counterparty pays a predetermined amount if the value of the underlying asset is above or below the strike price and nothing otherwise (binary option), the option must be treated as two separate options. For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(B) of this section, a binary option with strike K must be represented as the combination of one bought European option and one sold European option of the same type as the original option (put or call) with the strikes set equal to 0.95 * K and 1.05 * K so that the payoff of the binary option is reproduced exactly outside the region between the two strikes. The absolute value of the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts of the bought and sold options is capped at the payoff amount of the binary option.
(B) For a derivative contract that can be represented as a combination of standard option payoffs (such as collar, butterfly spread, calendar spread, straddle, and strangle), an Enterprise must treat each standard option component as a separate derivative contract.
(C) For a derivative contract that includes multiple-payment options, (such as interest rate caps and floors), an Enterprise may represent each payment option as a combination of effective single-payment options (such as interest rate caplets and floorlets).
(D) An Enterprise may not decompose linear derivative contracts (such as swaps) into components.
(10)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement
—(i)
Calculating replacement cost.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(6) of this section, an Enterprise shall assign a single replacement cost to multiple netting sets that are subject to a single variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin, calculated according to the following formula:
Replacement Cost = max
{Σ
NS
max
{
V
NS
;
0}−
max
{
C
MA
;
0}; 0}
+
max
{Σ
NS
min
{
V
NS
;
0}−
min
{
C
MA
;
0}; 0}
Where:
(A) NS is each netting set subject to the variation margin agreement MA;
V
NS
is the sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set NS; and
(B) C
MA
is the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting sets subject to the single variation margin agreement.
(ii)
Calculating potential future exposure.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(5) of this section, an Enterprise shall assign a single potential future exposure to multiple netting sets that are subject to a single variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin equal to the sum of the potential future exposure of each such netting set, each calculated according to paragraph (c)(7) of this section as if such nettings sets were not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(11)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set
—(i)
Calculating replacement cost.
To calculate replacement cost for either a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements under which the counterparty to each variation margin agreement must post variation margin, or a netting set composed of at least one derivative contract subject to variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin and at least one derivative contract that is not subject to such a variation margin agreement, the calculation for replacement cost is provided under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, except that the variation margin threshold equals the sum of the variation margin thresholds of all variation margin agreements within the netting set and the minimum transfer amount equals the sum of the minimum transfer amounts of all the variation margin agreements within the netting set.
(ii)
Calculating potential future exposure.
(A) To calculate potential future exposure for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements under which the counterparty to each variation margin agreement must post variation margin, or a netting set composed of at least one derivative contract subject to variation margin agreement under which the counterparty to the derivative contract must post variation margin and at least one derivative contract that is not subject to such a variation margin agreement, an Enterprise must divide the netting set into sub-netting sets (as described in paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B) of this section) and calculate the aggregated amount for each sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for the netting set is calculated as the sum of the aggregated amounts for the sub-netting sets. The multiplier is calculated for the entire netting set.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(A) of this section, the netting set must be divided into sub-netting sets as follows:
(
1
) All derivative contracts within the netting set that are not subject to a variation margin agreement or that are subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin form a single sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for this sub-netting set is calculated as if the netting set is not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(
2
) All derivative contracts within the netting set that are subject to variation margin agreements in which the counterparty must post variation margin and that share the same value of the MPOR form a single sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for this sub-netting set is calculated as if the netting set is subject to a variation margin agreement, using the MPOR value shared by the derivative contracts within the netting set.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
c
)(11)(
ii
)(B)(
2
)—Supervisory Option Volatility, Supervisory Correlation Parameters, and Supervisory Factors for Derivative Contracts
Asset class
Category
Type
Supervisory
option
volatility
(percent)
Supervisory
correlation
factor
(percent)
Supervisory
factor
1
(percent)
Interest rate
N/A
N/A
50
N/A
0.50
Exchange rate
N/A
N/A
15
N/A
4.0
Credit, single name
Investment grade
N/A
100
50
0.46
Speculative grade
N/A
100
50
1.3
Sub-speculative grade
N/A
100
50
6.0
Credit, index
Investment Grade
N/A
80
80
0.38
Speculative Grade
N/A
80
80
1.06
Equity, single name
N/A
N/A
120
50
32
Equity, index
N/A
N/A
75
80
20
Commodity
Energy
Electricity
150
40
40
Other
70
40
18
Metals
N/A
70
40
18
Agricultural
N/A
70
40
18
Other
N/A
70
40
18
1
The applicable supervisory factor for basis derivative contract hedging sets is equal to one-half of the supervisory factor provided in this table 2, and the applicable supervisory factor for volatility derivative contract hedging sets is equal to 5 times the supervisory factor provided in this table 2.
(d)
Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk-weighted assets
—(1)
In general.
With respect to its OTC derivative contracts, an Enterprise must calculate a CVA risk-weighted asset amount for its portfolio of OTC derivative transactions that are subject to the CVA capital requirement using the simple CVA approach described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Recognition of hedges.
(i) An Enterprise may recognize a single name CDS, single name contingent CDS, any other equivalent hedging instrument that references the counterparty directly, and index credit default swaps (CDS
ind
) as a CVA hedge under paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section or paragraph (d)(6) of this section, provided that the position is managed as a CVA hedge in accordance with the Enterprise's hedging policies.
(ii) An Enterprise shall not recognize as a CVA hedge any tranched or n
th
-to-default credit derivative.
(4)
Total CVA risk-weighted assets.
Total CVA risk-weighted assets is the CVA capital requirement, K
CVA
, calculated for an Enterprise's entire portfolio of OTC derivative counterparties that are subject to the CVA capital requirement, multiplied by 12.5.
(5)
Simple CVA approach.
(i) Under the simple CVA approach, the CVA capital requirement, K
CVA
, is calculated according to the following formula:
ER30NO23.040
Where:
A
= Σ
i
0.75 ×
w
i
2
× (
M
i
×
EAD
i
total
−
M
i
hedge
×
B
i
)
2
(A) w
i
= the weight applicable to counterparty i under table 3 to paragraph (d)(5)(ii);
(B) M
i
= the EAD-weighted average of the effective maturity of each netting set with counterparty i (where each netting set's effective maturity can be no less than one year.)
(C)
EAD
i
total
= the sum of the EAD for all netting sets of OTC derivative contracts with counterparty i calculated using the standardized approach to counterparty credit risk described in paragraph (c) of this section. When the Enterprise calculates EAD under paragraph (c) of this section, such EAD may be adjusted for purposes of calculating
EAD
i
total
by multiplying EAD by (1-exp(−0.05 × M
i
))/(0.05 × M
i
), where “exp” is the exponential function.
(D)
M
i
hedge
= the notional weighted average maturity of the hedge instrument.
(E) B
i
= the sum of the notional amounts of any purchased single name CDS referencing counterparty i that is used to hedge CVA risk to counterparty i multiplied by (1-exp(−0.05 ×
M
i
hedge
))/(0.05 ×
M
i
hedge
).
(F) M
ind
= the maturity of the CDS
ind
or the notional weighted average maturity of any CDS
ind
purchased to hedge CVA risk of counterparty i.
(G) B
ind
= the notional amount of one or more CDS
ind
purchased to hedge CVA risk for counterparty i multiplied by (1-exp(−0.05 × M
ind
))/(0.05 × M
ind
)
(H) w
ind
= the weight applicable to the CDS
ind
based on the average weight of the underlying reference names that comprise the index under table 3 to paragraph (d)(5)(ii).
(ii) The Enterprise may treat the notional amount of the index attributable to a counterparty as a single name hedge of counterparty i (B
i
,) when calculating K
CVA
, and subtract the notional amount of B
i
from the notional amount of the CDS
ind
. An Enterprise must treat the CDS
ind
hedge with the notional amount reduced by B
i
as a CVA hedge.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
d
)(5)(
ii
)—Assignment of Counterparty Weight
Internal PD
(in percent)
Weight
w
i
(in percent)
0.00-0.07
0.70
0.070-0.15
0.80
0.15-0.40
1.00
0.40-2.00
2.00
2.00-6.00
3.00
6.00
10.00
[88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.37
Cleared transactions.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Clearing member clients.
An Enterprise that is a clearing member client must use the methodologies described in paragraph (b) of this section to calculate risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction.
(2)
Clearing members.
An Enterprise that is a clearing member must use the methodologies described in paragraph (c) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction and paragraph (b) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for its default fund contribution to a CCP.
(b)
Clearing member client Enterprises
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, an Enterprise that is a clearing member client must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member client Enterprise's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
(i) For a cleared transaction that is a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, trade exposure amount equals the EAD for the derivative contract or netting set of derivative contracts calculated using the methodology used to calculate EAD for derivative contracts set forth in § 1240.36(c), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client Enterprise and held by the CCP or a clearing member in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals the EAD for the repo-style transaction calculated using the methodology set forth in § 1240.39(b)(2) or (3), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client Enterprise and held by the CCP or a clearing member in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) For a cleared transaction with a QCCP, a clearing member client Enterprise must apply a risk weight of:
(A) 2 percent if the collateral posted by the Enterprise to the QCCP or clearing member is subject to an arrangement that prevents any loss to the clearing member client Enterprise due to the joint default or a concurrent insolvency, liquidation, or receivership proceeding of the clearing member and any other clearing member clients of the clearing member; and the clearing member client Enterprise has conducted sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintains sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from an event of default or from liquidation, insolvency, or receivership proceedings) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions.
(B) 4 percent, if the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section are not met.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member client Enterprise must apply the risk weight applicable to the CCP under this subpart D.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, collateral posted by a clearing member client Enterprise that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as a custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member client Enterprise must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under this subpart D, as applicable.
(c)
Clearing member Enterprise
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared
transaction, a clearing member Enterprise must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member Enterprise's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
A clearing member Enterprise must calculate its trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction as follows:
(i) For a cleared transaction that is a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, trade exposure amount equals the EAD calculated using the methodology used to calculate EAD for derivative contracts set forth in § 1240.36(c), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member Enterprise and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals the EAD calculated under § 1240.39(b)(2) or (3), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member Enterprise and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) A clearing member Enterprise must apply a risk weight of 2 percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member Enterprise must apply the risk weight applicable to the CCP according to this subpart D.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a clearing member Enterprise may apply a risk weight of zero percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP where the clearing member Enterprise is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client, the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 1240.3(a), and the clearing member Enterprise is not obligated to reimburse the clearing member client in the event of the QCCP default.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, collateral posted by a clearing member Enterprise that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as a custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member Enterprise must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under this subpart D.
(d)
Default fund contributions
—(1)
General requirement.
A clearing member Enterprise must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a CCP at least quarterly, or more frequently if, in the opinion of the Enterprise or FHFA, there is a material change in the financial condition of the CCP.
(2)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to nonqualifying CCPs.
A clearing member Enterprise's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to CCPs that are not QCCPs equals the sum of such default fund contributions multiplied by 1,250 percent, or an amount determined by FHFA, based on factors such as size, structure, and membership characteristics of the CCP and riskiness of its transactions, in cases where such default fund contributions may be unlimited.
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs.
A clearing member Enterprise's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs equals the sum of its capital requirement, K
CM
for each QCCP, as calculated under the methodology set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, multiplied by 12.5.
(4)
Capital requirement for default fund contributions to a QCCP.
A clearing member Enterprise's capital requirement for its default fund contribution to a QCCP (K
CM
) is equal to:
ER30NO23.041
Where:
(i)
K
CCP
is the hypothetical capital requirement of the QCCP, as determined under paragraph (d)(5) of this section;
(ii)
DF
pref
is prefunded default fund contribution of the clearing member Enterprise to the QCCP;
(iii)
DF
CCP
is the QCCP's own prefunded amount that are contributed to the default waterfall and are junior or
pari passu
with prefunded default fund contributions of clearing members of the QCCP; and
(iv)
DF
CCPCM
pref
is the total prefunded default fund contributions from clearing members of the QCCP to the QCCP.
(5)
Hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP.
Where a QCCP has provided its K
CCP
, an Enterprise must rely on such disclosed figure instead of calculating K
CCP
under this paragraph (d)(5), unless the Enterprise determines that a more conservative figure is appropriate based on the nature, structure, or characteristics of the QCCP. The hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP (K
CCP
), as determined by the Enterprise, is equal to:
ER30NO23.042
Where:
(i) CM
i
is each clearing member of the QCCP; and
(ii) EAD
i
is the exposure amount of the QCCP to each clearing member of the QCCP, as determined under paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(6)
EAD of a QCCP to a clearing member.
(i) The EAD of a QCCP to a clearing member is equal to the sum of the EAD for derivative contracts determined under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section and the EAD for repo-style transactions determined under paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
(ii) With respect to any derivative contracts between the QCCP and the clearing member that are cleared transactions and any guarantees that the clearing member has provided to the QCCP with respect to performance of a clearing member client on a derivative contract, the EAD is equal to the exposure amount of the QCCP to the clearing member for all such derivative contracts and guarantees of derivative contracts calculated under SA-CCR in § 1240.36(c) (or, with respect to a QCCP located outside the United States, under a substantially identical methodology in effect in the jurisdiction) using a value of 10 business days for purposes of § 1240.36(c)(9)(iv); less the value of all collateral held by the QCCP posted by the clearing member or a client of the clearing member in connection with a derivative contract for which the clearing member has provided a guarantee to the QCCP and the amount of the prefunded default fund contribution of the clearing member to the QCCP.
(iii) With respect to any repo-style transactions between the QCCP and a clearing member that are cleared transactions, EAD is equal to:
EAD
i
= max{EBRM
i
−IM
i
−DF
i
;0}
Where:
(A) EBRM
i
is the exposure amount of the QCCP to each clearing member for all repo-style transactions between the QCCP and the clearing member, as determined under § 1240.39(b)(2) and without recognition of the initial margin collateral posted by the clearing member to the QCCP with respect to the repo-style transactions or the prefunded default fund contribution of the clearing member institution to the QCCP;
(B) IM
i
is the initial margin collateral posted by each clearing member to the QCCP with respect to the repo-style transactions; and
(C) DF
i
is the prefunded default fund contribution of each clearing member to the
(D) QCCP that is not already deducted in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section.
(iv) EAD must be calculated separately for each clearing member's sub-client accounts and sub-house account (
i.e.,
for the clearing member's proprietary activities). If the clearing member's collateral and its client's collateral are held in the same default fund contribution account, then the EAD of that account is the sum of the EAD for
the client-related transactions within the account and the EAD of the house-related transactions within the account. For purposes of determining such EADs, the independent collateral of the clearing member and its client must be allocated in proportion to the respective total amount of independent collateral posted by the clearing member to the QCCP.
(v) If any account or sub-account contains both derivative contracts and repo-style transactions, the EAD of that account is the sum of the EAD for the derivative contracts within the account and the EAD of the repo-style transactions within the account. If independent collateral is held for an account containing both derivative contracts and repo-style transactions, then such collateral must be allocated to the derivative contracts and repo-style transactions in proportion to the respective product specific exposure amounts, calculated, excluding the effects of collateral, according to § 1240.39(b) for repo-style transactions and to § 1240.36(c)(5) for derivative contracts.
[88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.38
Guarantees and credit derivatives: substitution treatment.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
General.
An Enterprise may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative by substituting the risk weight associated with the protection provider for the risk weight assigned to an exposure, as provided under this section.
(2)
Applicability.
This section applies to exposures for which:
(i) Credit risk is fully covered by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) Credit risk is covered on a pro rata basis (that is, on a basis in which the Enterprise and the protection provider share losses proportionately) by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative.
(3)
Tranching.
Exposures on which there is a tranching of credit risk (reflecting at least two different levels of seniority) generally are securitization exposures subject to §§ 1240.41 through 1240.46.
(4)
Multiple guarantees or credit derivatives.
If multiple eligible guarantees or eligible credit derivatives cover a single exposure described in this section, an Enterprise may treat the hedged exposure as multiple separate exposures each covered by a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and may calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each separate exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5)
Single guarantees or credit derivatives.
If a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an Enterprise must treat each hedged exposure as covered by a separate eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and must calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Rules of recognition.
(1) An Enterprise may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives.
(2) An Enterprise may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible credit derivative to hedge an exposure that is different from the credit derivative's reference exposure used for determining the derivative's cash settlement value, deliverable obligation, or occurrence of a credit event if:
(i) The reference exposure ranks
pari passu
with, or is subordinated to, the hedged exposure; and
(ii) The reference exposure and the hedged exposure are to the same legal entity, and legally enforceable cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place to ensure payments under the credit derivative are triggered when the obligated party of the hedged exposure fails to pay under the terms of the hedged exposure.
(c)
Substitution approach
—(1)
Full coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is greater than or equal to the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, an Enterprise may recognize the guarantee
or credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted asset amount for the hedged exposure by substituting the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider under this subpart D for the risk weight assigned to the exposure.
(2)
Partial coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, the Enterprise must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefit of the guarantee or credit derivative.
(i) The Enterprise may calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the protected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider.
(ii) The Enterprise must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the unprotected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is that of the unprotected portion of the hedged exposure.
(iii) The treatment provided in this section is applicable when the credit risk of an exposure is covered on a partial pro rata basis and may be applicable when an adjustment is made to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative under paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(d)
Maturity mismatch adjustment.
(1) An Enterprise that recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted asset amount for a hedged exposure must adjust the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant to reflect any maturity mismatch between the hedged exposure and the credit risk mitigant.
(2) A maturity mismatch occurs when the residual maturity of a credit risk mitigant is less than that of the hedged exposure(s).
(3) The residual maturity of a hedged exposure is the longest possible remaining time before the obligated party of the hedged exposure is scheduled to fulfil its obligation on the hedged exposure. If a credit risk mitigant has embedded options that may reduce its term, the Enterprise (protection purchaser) must use the shortest possible residual maturity for the credit risk mitigant. If a call is at the discretion of the protection provider, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant is at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the Enterprise (protection purchaser), but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the credit risk mitigant contain a positive incentive for the Enterprise to call the transaction before contractual maturity, the remaining time to the first call date is the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant.
(4) A credit risk mitigant with a maturity mismatch may be recognized only if its original maturity is greater than or equal to one year and its residual maturity is greater than three months.
(5) When a maturity mismatch exists, the Enterprise must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant: Pm = E × (t−0.25)/(T−0.25), where:
(i) Pm = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for maturity mismatch;
(ii) E = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant;
(iii) t = the lesser of T or the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant, expressed in years; and
(iv) T = the lesser of five or the residual maturity of the hedged exposure, expressed in years.
(e)
Adjustment for credit derivatives without restructuring as a credit event.
If an Enterprise recognizes an eligible credit derivative that does not include as a credit event a restructuring of the hedged exposure involving forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest, or fees that results in a credit loss event (that is, a charge-off, specific provision, or other similar debit to the profit and loss account), the Enterprise must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit derivative: Pr = Pm × 0.60, where:
(1) Pr = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for lack of restructuring event (and maturity mismatch, if applicable); and
(2) Pm = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch, if applicable).
(f)
Currency mismatch adjustment.
(1) If an Enterprise recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative that is denominated in a currency different from that in which the hedged exposure is denominated, the Enterprise must apply the following formula to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative: Pc = Pr × (1−H
FX
), where:
(i) Pc = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for currency mismatch (and maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable);
(ii) Pr = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable); and
(iii) H
FX
= haircut appropriate for the currency mismatch between the credit risk mitigant and the hedged exposure.
(2) An Enterprise must set H
FX
equal to eight percent unless it qualifies for the use of and uses its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility based on a ten-business-day holding period. An Enterprise qualifies for the use of its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility if it qualifies for the use of its own-estimates haircuts in § 1240.39(c)(4).
(3) An Enterprise must adjust H
FX
calculated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section upward if the Enterprise revalues the guarantee or credit derivative less frequently than once every 10 business days using the following square root of time formula:
ER17DE20.035
where T
M
equals the greater of 10 or the number of days between revaluation.
§ 1240.39
Collateralized transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) An Enterprise may use the following methodologies to recognize the benefits of financial collateral (other than with respect to a retained CRT exposure) in mitigating the counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized OTC derivative contracts and single product netting sets of such transactions:
(i) The collateral haircut approach set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii) For single product netting sets of repo-style transactions and eligible margin loans, the simple VaR methodology set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) An Enterprise may use any combination of the two methodologies for collateral recognition; however, it must use the same methodology for similar exposures or transactions.
(b)
EAD for eligible margin loans and repo-style transactions
—(1)
General.
An Enterprise may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, or single-product netting set of such transactions by determining the EAD of the exposure using:
(i) The collateral haircut approach described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(ii) For netting sets only, the simple VaR methodology described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Collateral haircut approach
—(i)
EAD equation.
An Enterprise may determine EAD for an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, or netting set by setting EAD equal to
max{0, [(ΣE−ΣC) + Σ(E
s
× H
s
) + Σ(E
fx
× H
fx
)]},
Where:
(A) ΣE equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(B) ΣC equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the Enterprise has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(C) E
s
equals the absolute value of the net position in a given instrument or in gold (where the net position in a given instrument or in gold equals the sum of the current fair values of the instrument or gold the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of that same instrument or gold the Enterprise has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty);
(D) H
s
equals the market price volatility haircut appropriate to the instrument or gold referenced in E
s
;
(E) E
fx
equals the absolute value of the net position of instruments and cash in a currency that is different from the settlement currency (where the net position in a given currency equals the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the Enterprise has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty); and
(F) H
fx
equals the haircut appropriate to the mismatch between the currency referenced in Efx and the settlement currency.
(ii)
Standard supervisory haircuts.
Under the standard supervisory haircuts approach:
(A) An Enterprise must use the haircuts for market price volatility (H
s
) in table 1 to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) as adjusted in certain circumstances as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section;
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(2)(
ii
)(A)—Standard Supervisory Market Price Volatility Haircuts
1
Residual maturity
Haircut (in percent) assigned based on:
Sovereign issuers risk weight under § 1240.32
2
(in percent)
Zero
20 or 50
100
Non-sovereign issuers risk weight under § 1240.32
(in percent)
20
50
100
Investment grade securitization
exposures
(in percent)
Less than or equal to 1 year
0.5
1.0
15.0
1.0
2.0
4.0
4.0
Greater than 1 year and less than or equal to 5 years
2.0
3.0
15.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
12.0
Greater than 5 years
4.0
6.0
15.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
24.0
Main index equities (including convertible bonds) and gold
15.0
Other publicly traded equities (including convertible bonds)
25.0
Mutual funds
Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest.
Cash collateral held
Zero.
Other exposure types
25.0
1
The market price volatility haircuts in table 1 are based on a 10 business-day holding period.
2
Includes a foreign PSE that receives a zero percent risk weight.
(B) For currency mismatches, an Enterprise must use a haircut for foreign exchange rate volatility (H
fx
) of 8 percent, as adjusted in certain circumstances as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section.
(C) For repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions, an Enterprise may multiply the supervisory haircuts provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section by the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). If the Enterprise determines that a longer holding period is appropriate for client-facing derivative transactions, then it must use a larger scaling factor to adjust for the longer holding period pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F) of this section.
(D) An Enterprise must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period longer than ten business days (for eligible margin loans) or five business days (for repo-style transactions), using the formula provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F) of this section where the conditions in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) apply. If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an Enterprise must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter (except when an Enterprise is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 1240.37). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral, an Enterprise must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted longer than the holding period, then the Enterprise must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward for that netting set on the basis of a minimum holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(E)(
1
) An Enterprise must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period longer than ten business days for collateral associated with derivative contracts (five business days for client-facing derivative contracts) using the formula provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F) of this section where the conditions in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E)(
1
) apply. For collateral associated with a derivative contract that is within a netting set that is composed of more than 5,000 derivative contracts that are not cleared transactions, an Enterprise must use a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or a derivative contract that cannot be easily replaced, an Enterprise must use a minimum holding period of twenty business days.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (C) or (b)(2)(ii)(E)(
1
) of this section, for collateral associated with a derivative contract in a netting set under which more than two margin disputes that lasted longer than the holding period occurred during the two previous quarters, the minimum holding period is twice the amount provided under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (C) or (b)(2)(ii)(E)(
1
).
(F) An Enterprise must adjust the standard supervisory haircuts upward, pursuant to the adjustments provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(C) through (E) of this section, using the following formula:
ER30NO23.043
Where:
(
1
) T
M
equals a holding period of longer than 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or longer than 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions; H
s
equals the standard supervisory haircut; and
(
2
) T
s
equals 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions.
(G) If the instrument an Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral does not meet the definition of financial collateral, the Enterprise must use a 25.0 percent haircut for market price volatility (H
s
).
(iii)
Own internal estimates for haircuts.
With the prior written notice to FHFA, an Enterprise may calculate
haircuts (H
s
and H
fx
) using its own internal estimates of the volatilities of market prices and foreign exchange rates.
(A) To use its own internal estimates, an Enterprise must satisfy the following minimum quantitative standards:
(
1
) An Enterprise must use a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval.
(
2
) The minimum holding period for a repo-style transaction is five business days and for an eligible margin loan is ten business days except for transactions or netting sets for which paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
) of this section applies. When an Enterprise calculates an own-estimates haircut on a T
N
-day holding period, which is different from the minimum holding period for the transaction type, the applicable haircut (H
M
) is calculated using the following square root of time formula:
ER30NO23.044
Where:
(
i
) T
M
equals 5 for repo-style transactions and 10 for eligible margin loans;
(
ii
) T
N
equals the holding period used by the Enterprise to derive H
N
; and
(
iii
) H
N
equals the haircut based on the holding period T
N
(
3
) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an Enterprise must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter (except when an Enterprise is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 1240.37). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, an Enterprise must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the Enterprise must calculate the haircut for transactions in that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(
4
) An Enterprise is required to calculate its own internal estimates with inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the security or category of securities.
(
5
) An Enterprise must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the Enterprise's own internal estimates for haircuts under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The Enterprise must obtain the prior approval of FHFA for, and notify FHFA if the Enterprise makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures.
(
6
) Nothing in this section prevents FHFA from requiring an Enterprise to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of own internal estimates for haircuts.
(
7
) An Enterprise must update its data sets and calculate haircuts no less frequently than quarterly and must also reassess data sets and haircuts whenever market prices change materially.
(B) With respect to debt securities that are investment grade, an Enterprise may calculate haircuts for categories of securities. For a category of securities, the Enterprise must calculate the haircut on the basis of internal volatility estimates for securities in that category that are representative of the securities in that category that the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. In determining relevant categories, the Enterprise must at a minimum take into account:
(
1
) The type of issuer of the security;
(
2
) The credit quality of the security;
(
3
) The maturity of the security; and
(
4
) The interest rate sensitivity of the security.
(C) With respect to debt securities that are not investment grade and equity securities, an Enterprise must calculate a separate haircut for each individual security.
(D) Where an exposure or collateral (whether in the form of cash or securities) is denominated in a currency that differs from the settlement currency,
the Enterprise must calculate a separate currency mismatch haircut for its net position in each mismatched currency based on estimated volatilities of foreign exchange rates between the mismatched currency and the settlement currency.
(E) An Enterprise's own estimates of market price and foreign exchange rate volatilities may not take into account the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates on either the exposure or collateral side of a transaction (or netting set) or the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates between the exposure and collateral sides of the transaction (or netting set).
(3)
Simple VaR methodology.
With the prior written notice to FHFA, an Enterprise may estimate EAD for a netting set using a VaR model that meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. In such event, the Enterprise must set EAD equal to max {0, [(ΣE−ΣC) + PFE]}, where:
(i) ΣE equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the netting set);
(ii) ΣC equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the Enterprise has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the netting set); and
(iii) PFE (potential future exposure) equals the Enterprise's empirically based best estimate of the 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval for an increase in the value of (ΣE−ΣC) over a five-business-day holding period for repo-style transactions, or over a ten-business-day holding period for eligible margin loans except for netting sets for which paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section applies using a minimum one-year historical observation period of price data representing the instruments that the Enterprise has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. The Enterprise must validate its VaR model by establishing and maintaining a rigorous and regular backtesting regime.
(iv) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an Enterprise must use a twenty-business-day holding period for the following quarter (except when an Enterprise is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 1240.37). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral, an Enterprise must use a twenty-business-day holding period. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the Enterprise must set its PFE for that netting set equal to an estimate over a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that
[88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Unsettled Transactions
§ 1240.40
Unsettled transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) transaction means a securities or commodities transaction in which the buyer is obligated to make payment only if the seller has made delivery of the securities or commodities and the seller is obligated to deliver the securities or commodities only if the buyer has made payment.
(2) Payment-versus-payment (PvP) transaction means a foreign exchange transaction in which each counterparty is obligated to make a final transfer of one or more currencies only if the other counterparty has made a final transfer of one or more currencies.
(3) A transaction has a normal settlement period if the contractual settlement period for the transaction is equal to or less than the market standard for the instrument underlying the transaction and equal to or less than five business days.
(4) Positive current exposure of an Enterprise for a transaction is the difference between the transaction value at the agreed settlement price and the current market price of the transaction, if the difference results in a
credit exposure of the Enterprise to the counterparty.
(b)
Scope.
This section applies to all transactions involving securities, foreign exchange instruments, and commodities that have a risk of delayed settlement or delivery. This section does not apply to:
(1) Cleared transactions that are marked-to-market daily and subject to daily receipt and payment of variation margin;
(2) Repo-style transactions, including unsettled repo-style transactions;
(3) One-way cash payments on OTC derivative contracts; or
(4) Transactions with a contractual settlement period that is longer than the normal settlement period (which are treated as OTC derivative contracts as provided in § 1240.36).
(c)
System-wide failures.
In the case of a system-wide failure of a settlement, clearing system or central counterparty, FHFA may waive risk-based capital requirements for unsettled and failed transactions until the situation is rectified.
(d)
Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) and payment-versus-payment (PvP) transactions.
An Enterprise must hold risk-based capital against any DvP or PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the Enterprise's counterparty has not made delivery or payment within five business days after the settlement date. The Enterprise must determine its risk-weighted asset amount for such a transaction by multiplying the positive current exposure of the transaction for the Enterprise by the appropriate risk weight in table 1 to this paragraph (d).
ER17DE20.040
(e)
Non-DvP/non-PvP (non-delivery-versus-payment/non-payment-versus-payment) transactions.
(1) An Enterprise must hold risk-based capital against any non-DvP/non-PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the Enterprise has delivered cash, securities, commodities, or currencies to its counterparty but has not received its corresponding deliverables by the end of the same business day. The Enterprise must continue to hold risk-based capital against the transaction until the Enterprise has received its corresponding deliverables.
(2) From the business day after the Enterprise has made its delivery until five business days after the counterparty delivery is due, the Enterprise must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the transaction by treating the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the Enterprise as an exposure to the counterparty and using the applicable counterparty risk weight under this subpart D.
(3) If the Enterprise has not received its deliverables by the fifth business day after counterparty delivery was
due, the Enterprise must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the Enterprise.
(f)
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions.
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts of all DvP, PvP, and non-DvP/non-PvP transactions.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for CRT and Other Securitization Exposures
§ 1240.41
Operational requirements for CRT and other securitization exposures.
(a)
Operational criteria for traditional securitizations.
An Enterprise that transfers exposures it has purchased or otherwise acquired to a securitization SPE or other third party in connection with a traditional securitization may exclude the exposures from the calculation of its risk-weighted assets only if each condition in this section is satisfied. An Enterprise that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk it retains in connection with the securitization. An Enterprise that fails to meet these conditions must hold risk-based capital against the transferred exposures as if they had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the transaction. The conditions are:
(1) The exposures are not reported on the Enterprise's consolidated balance sheet under GAAP;
(2) The Enterprise has transferred to one or more third parties credit risk associated with the underlying exposures;
(3) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls; and
(4) The securitization does not:
(i) Include one or more underlying exposures in which the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount within an agreed limit under a line of credit; and
(ii) Contain an early amortization provision.
(b)
Operational criteria for synthetic securitizations.
For synthetic securitizations, an Enterprise may recognize for risk-based capital purposes the use of a credit risk mitigant to hedge underlying exposures only if each condition in this paragraph (b) is satisfied. An Enterprise that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk of the exposures it retains in connection with the synthetic securitization. An Enterprise that fails to meet these conditions or chooses not to recognize the credit risk mitigant for purposes of this section must instead hold risk-based capital against the underlying exposures as if they had not been synthetically securitized. The conditions are:
(1) The credit risk mitigant is:
(i) Financial collateral;
(ii) A guarantee that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 1240.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of that definition; or
(iii) A credit derivative that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible credit derivative” in § 1240.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 1240.2.
(2) The Enterprise transfers credit risk associated with the underlying exposures to one or more third parties, and the terms and conditions in the credit risk mitigants employed do not include provisions that:
(i) Allow for the termination of the credit protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(ii) Require the Enterprise to alter or replace the underlying exposures to improve the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iii) Increase the Enterprise's cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iv) Increase the yield payable to parties other than the Enterprise in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures; or
(v) Provide for increases in a retained first loss position or credit enhancement provided by the Enterprise after the inception of the securitization;
(3) The Enterprise obtains a well-reasoned opinion from legal counsel that
confirms the enforceability of the credit risk mitigant in all relevant jurisdictions; and
(4) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls.
(c)
Operational criteria for credit risk transfers.
For credit risk transfers, an Enterprise may recognize for risk-based capital purposes, the use of a credit risk transfer only if each condition in this paragraph (c) is satisfied (or, for a credit risk transfer entered into before February 16, 2021, only if each condition in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section is satisfied). An Enterprise that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk of the exposures it retains in connection with the credit risk transfer. An Enterprise that fails to meet these conditions or chooses not to recognize the credit risk transfer for purposes of this section must instead hold risk-based capital against the underlying exposures as if they had not been subject to the credit risk transfer. The conditions are:
(1) The credit risk transfer is any of the following—
(i) An eligible funded synthetic risk transfer;
(ii) An eligible reinsurance risk transfer;
(iii) An eligible single-family lender risk share;
(iv) An eligible multifamily lender risk share; or
(v) An eligible senior-subordinated structure.
(2) The credit risk transfer has been approved by FHFA as effective in transferring the credit risk of one or more mortgage exposures to another party, taking into account any counterparty, recourse, or other risk to the Enterprise and any capital, liquidity, or other requirements applicable to counterparties;
(3) The Enterprise transfers credit risk associated with the underlying exposures to one or more third parties, and the terms and conditions in the credit risk transfer employed do not include provisions that:
(i) Allow for the termination of the credit risk transfer due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(ii) Require the Enterprise to alter or replace the underlying exposures to improve the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iii) Increase the Enterprise's cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iv) Increase the yield payable to parties other than the Enterprise in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures; or
(v) Provide for increases in a retained first loss position or credit enhancement provided by the Enterprise after the inception of the credit risk transfer;
(4) The Enterprise obtains a well-reasoned opinion from legal counsel that confirms the enforceability of the credit risk transfer in all relevant jurisdictions;
(5) Any clean-up calls relating to the credit risk transfer are eligible clean-up calls;
(6) Any time-based calls relating to the credit risk transfer are eligible time-based calls; and
(7) The Enterprise includes in its periodic disclosures under the Federal securities laws, or in other appropriate public disclosures, a reasonably detailed description of—
(i) The material recourse or other risks that might reduce the effectiveness of the credit risk transfer in transferring the credit risk on the underlying exposures to third parties; and
(ii) Each condition under paragraph (a) of this section (governing traditional securitizations) or paragraph (b) of this section (governing synthetic securitizations) that is not satisfied by the credit risk transfer and the reasons that each such condition is not satisfied.
(d)
Due diligence requirements for securitization exposures.
(1) Except for exposures that are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and exposures subject to § 1240.42(h), if an Enterprise is unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization exposure that would materially affect the performance of the exposure, the Enterprise must assign the securitization exposure a risk
weight of 1,250 percent. The Enterprise's analysis must be commensurate with the complexity of the securitization exposure and the materiality of the exposure in relation to its capital.
(2) An Enterprise must demonstrate its comprehensive understanding of a securitization exposure under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, for each securitization exposure by:
(i) Conducting an analysis of the risk characteristics of a securitization exposure prior to acquiring the exposure, and documenting such analysis within three business days after acquiring the exposure, considering:
(A) Structural features of the securitization that would materially impact the performance of the exposure, for example, the contractual cash flow waterfall, waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, fair value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the exposure, and deal-specific definitions of default;
(B) Relevant information regarding the performance of the underlying credit exposure(s), for example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average loan-to-value ratio; and industry and geographic diversification data on the underlying exposure(s);
(C) Relevant market data of the securitization, for example, bid-ask spread, most recent sales price and historic price volatility, trading volume, implied market rating, and size, depth and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and
(D) For resecuritization exposures, performance information on the underlying securitization exposures, for example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures; and
(ii) On an on-going basis (no less frequently than quarterly), evaluating, reviewing, and updating as appropriate the analysis required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for each securitization exposure.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.42
Risk-weighted assets for CRT and other securitization exposures.
(a)
Securitization risk weight approaches.
Except as provided elsewhere in this section or in § 1240.41:
(1) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from a securitization and apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the portion of a CEIO that does not constitute after-tax gain-on-sale.
(2) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an Enterprise may assign a risk weight to the securitization exposure either using the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) in accordance with § 1240.43(a) through (d) for a securitization exposure that is not a retained CRT exposure or an acquired CRT exposure or using the credit risk transfer approach (CRTA) in accordance with § 1240.44 for a retained CRT exposure, and in either case, subject to the limitation under paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the Enterprise cannot, or chooses not to apply the SSFA or the CRTA to the exposure, the Enterprise must assign a risk weight to the exposure as described in § 1240.45.
(4) If a securitization exposure is a derivative contract (other than protection provided by an Enterprise in the form of a credit derivative) that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments), an Enterprise may choose to set the risk-weighted asset amount of the exposure equal to the amount of the exposure as determined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
An Enterprise's total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amount
for securitization exposures that the Enterprise risk weights under § 1240.41(d), § 1240.42(a)(1), § 1240.43, § 1240.44, or § 1240.45, and paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section, as applicable.
(c)
Exposure amount of a CRT or other securitization exposure
—(1)
On-balance sheet securitization exposures.
Except as provided for retained CRT exposures in § 1240.44(f), the exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure (excluding a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, OTC derivative contract, or cleared transaction) is equal to the carrying value of the exposure.
(2)
Off-balance sheet securitization exposures.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section or as provided for retained CRT exposures in § 1240.44(f), the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet securitization exposure that is not a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, cleared transaction (other than a credit derivative), or an OTC derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the notional amount of the exposure.
(3)
Repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and derivative contracts.
The exposure amount of a securitization exposure that is a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the exposure amount of the transaction as calculated under § 1240.36 or § 1240.39, as applicable.
(d)
Overlapping exposures.
If an Enterprise has multiple securitization exposures that provide duplicative coverage to the underlying exposures of a securitization, the Enterprise is not required to hold duplicative risk-based capital against the overlapping position. Instead, the Enterprise may apply to the overlapping position the applicable risk-based capital treatment that results in the highest risk-based capital requirement.
(e)
Implicit support.
If an Enterprise provides support to a securitization (including a CRT) in excess of the Enterprise's contractual obligation to provide credit support to the securitization (implicit support):
(1) The Enterprise must include in risk-weighted assets all of the underlying exposures associated with the securitization as if the exposures had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the securitization; and
(2) The Enterprise must disclose publicly:
(i) That it has provided implicit support to the securitization; and
(ii) The risk-based capital impact to the Enterprise of providing such implicit support.
(f)
Interest-only mortgage-backed securities.
For non-credit-enhancing interest-only mortgage-backed securities that are not subject to § 1240.32(c), the risk weight may not be less than 100 percent.
(g)
Nth-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
An Enterprise may assign a risk weight using the SSFA in § 1240.43 to an nth-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (g). An Enterprise must determine its exposure in the nth-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.
(2) A
ttachment and detachment points.
For purposes of determining the risk weight for an nth-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA, the Enterprise must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:
(i) The attachment point (parameter
A
) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure.
(ii) The detachment point (parameter
D
) equals the sum of parameter
A
plus the ratio of the notional amount of the
Enterprise's exposure in the nth-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(3)
Risk weights.
An Enterprise that does not use the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its nth-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(4)
Protection purchaser
—(i)
First-to-default credit derivatives.
An Enterprise that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a first-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 1240.38(b) must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the Enterprise synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures. An Enterprise must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 1240.36 for a first-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 1240.38(b).
(ii)
Second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivatives.
(A) An Enterprise that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a nth-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 1240.38(b) (other than a first-to-default credit derivative) may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of the derivative only if:
(
1
) The Enterprise also has obtained credit protection on the same underlying exposures in the form of first-through-(n-1)-to-default credit derivatives; or
(
2
) If n-1 of the underlying exposures have already defaulted.
(B) If an Enterprise satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the Enterprise must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the Enterprise had only synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the nth smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures.
(C) An Enterprise must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 1240.36 for a nth-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 1240.38(b).
(h)
Guarantees and credit derivatives other than nth-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
For a guarantee or credit derivative (other than an nth-to-default credit derivative) provided by an Enterprise that covers the full amount or a pro rata share of a securitization exposure's principal and interest, the Enterprise must risk weight the guarantee or credit derivative as if it holds the portion of the reference exposure covered by the guarantee or credit derivative.
(2)
Protection purchaser.
(i) An Enterprise that purchases a guarantee or OTC credit derivative (other than an nth-to-default credit derivative) that is recognized under § 1240.46 as a credit risk mitigant (including via collateral recognized under § 1240.39) is not required to compute a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under § 1240.31, in accordance with § 1240.36(c).
(ii) If an Enterprise cannot, or chooses not to, recognize a purchased credit derivative as a credit risk mitigant under § 1240.46, the Enterprise must determine the exposure amount of the credit derivative under § 1240.36.
(A) If the Enterprise purchases credit protection from a counterparty that is not a securitization SPE, the Enterprise must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to this subpart D.
(B) If the Enterprise purchases the credit protection from a counterparty that is a securitization SPE, the Enterprise must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to § 1240.42, including § 1240.42(a)(4) for a credit derivative that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures of the securitization SPE (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments).
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]
§ 1240.43
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
(a)
General requirements for the SSFA.
To use the SSFA to determine the risk weight for a securitization exposure, an Enterprise must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. An Enterprise that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(b)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the risk weight for a securitization exposure using the SSFA, an Enterprise must have accurate information on the following five inputs to the SSFA calculation:
(1)
K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) adjusted total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using this subpart.
K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of
K
G
equal to 0.08).
(2) Parameter
W
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter
W
is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(i) Ninety days or more past due;
(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(iii) In the process of foreclosure;
(iv) Held as real estate owned;
(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on:
(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(vi) Is in default.
(3) Parameter
A
is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Except as provided in § 1240.42(g) for nth-to-default credit derivatives, parameter
A
equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the Enterprise to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the Enterprise's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter
A
to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter
A
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(4) Parameter
D
is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in § 1240.42(g) for nth-to-default credit derivatives, parameter
D
equals parameter
A
plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization exposures that are
pari passu
with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter
D
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(5) A supervisory calibration parameter,
p,
is equal to 0.5 for securitization exposures that are not resecuritization exposures and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization exposures (except
p
is equal to 0.5 for resecuritization exposures secured by MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise).
(c) Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and
W
are used to calculate
K
A
, the augmented value of
K
G
, which reflects the
observed credit quality of the underlying exposures.
K
A
is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters
A
and
D,
relative to
K
A
determine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 20 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter
D,
for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to
K
A
, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent.
(2) When the attachment point, parameter
A,
for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to
K
A
, the Enterprise must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) When
A
is less than
K
A
and
D
is greater than
K
A
, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times
K
SSFA
calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation:
(i) The weight assigned to 1,250 percent equals
ER17DE20.041
(ii) The weight assigned to 1,250 percent times
K
SSFA
equals
ER17DE20.042
(iii) The risk weight will be set equal to:
ER17DE20.043
(d)
SSFA equation.
(1) The Enterprise must define the following parameters:
ER17DE20.044
e
= 2.71828, the base of the natural logarithms.
(2) Then the Enterprise must calculate
K
SSFA
according to the following equation:
ER17DE20.045
(3) The risk weight for the exposure (expressed as a percent) is equal to
K
SSFA
* 1,250.
(e)
Limitations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an Enterprise must assign a risk weight of not less than 20 percent to a securitization exposure.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022]
§ 1240.44
Credit risk transfer approach (CRTA).
(a)
General requirements for the CRTA.
To use the CRTA to determine the risk weighted assets for a retained CRT exposure, an Enterprise must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the credit risk transfer require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. An Enterprise that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the retained CRT exposure.
(b)
CRTA parameters.
To calculate the risk weighted assets for a retained CRT exposure, an Enterprise must have accurate information on the following ten inputs to the CRTA calculation.
(1) Parameter
A
is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Parameter
A
equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the Enterprise to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the Enterprise's exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter
A
to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter
A
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(2) Parameter
AggUPB
$
is the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the underlying mortgage exposures.
(3) Parameter
CM
%
is the percentage of a tranche sold in the capital markets.
CM
%
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(4) Parameter
Collat
%
RIF
is the amount of financial collateral posted by a counterparty under a loss sharing contract expressed as a percentage of the risk in force. For multifamily lender loss sharing transactions where an Enterprise has the contractual right to receive future lender guarantee-fee revenue, the Enterprise may include up to 12 months of estimated lender retained servicing fees in excess of servicing costs on the multifamily mortgage exposures subject to the loss sharing contract.
Collat
%
RIF
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(5) Parameter
D
is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Parameter
D
equals parameter
A
plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the exposures that are
pari passu
with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter
D
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(6) Parameter
EL
$
is the remaining lifetime net expected credit risk losses of the underlying mortgage exposures.
EL
$
must be calculated internally by an Enterprise. If the contractual terms of the CRT do not provide for the transfer of the counterparty credit risk associated with any loan-level credit enhancement or other loss sharing on the underlying mortgage exposures, then the Enterprise must calculate
EL
$
assuming no counterparty haircuts. Parameter
EL
$
is expressed in dollars.
(7) Parameter
HC
is the haircut for the counterparty in contractual loss sharing transactions.
(i) For a CRT with respect to single-family mortgage exposures, the counterparty haircut is set forth in table 12 to paragraph (e)(3)(ii) in § 1240.33, determined as if the counterparty to the CRT were a
counterparty to loan-level credit enhancement (as defined in § 1240.33(a)) and considering the counterparty rating and mortgage concentration risk of the counterparty to the CRT and the single-family segment and product of the underlying single-family mortgage exposures.
(ii) For a CRT with respect to multifamily mortgage exposures, the counterparty haircut is set forth in table 1 to this paragraph (b)(7)(ii), with counterparty rating and mortgage concentration risk having the meaning given in § 1240.33(a).
ER17DE20.046
(8) Parameter
LS
%
is the percentage of a tranche that is either insured, reinsured, or afforded coverage through lender reimbursement of credit losses of principal.
LS
%
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(9) Parameter
LTF
%
is the loss timing factor which accounts for maturity differences between the CRT and the underlying mortgage exposures. Maturity differences arise when the maturity date of the CRT is before the maturity dates of the underlying mortgage exposures.
LTF
%
is expressed as a value between 0 and 100 percent.
(i) An Enterprise must have the following information to calculate
LTF
%
for a CRT with respect to multifamily mortgage exposures:
(A) The remaining months to the contractual maturity of the CRT (
CRT
RMM
).
(B) The UPB-weighted-average remaining months to maturity of the underlying multifamily mortgage exposures that have remaining months to maturity greater than
CRT
RMM
(
MME
RMM
). If the underlying multifamily mortgage exposures all have maturity dates less than or equal to
CRT
RMM
,
MME
RMM
should equal
CRT
RMM
.
(C) The sum of UPB on the underlying multifamily mortgage exposures that have remaining loan terms less than or equal to
CRT
RMM
expressed as a percent of total UPB on the underlying multifamily mortgage exposures
LTF
%
(
LTFUPB
%
).
(D) An Enterprise must use the following method to calculate
LTF
%
for multifamily CRTs:
ER17DE20.047
(ii) An Enterprise must have the following information to calculate
LTF
%
for a newly issued CRT with respect to single-family mortgage exposures:
(A) The original closing date (or effective date) of the CRT and the maturity date on the CRT.
(B) UPB share of single-family mortgage exposures that have original amortization terms of less than or equal to 189 months (
CRTF15
%
).
(C) UPB share of single-family mortgage exposures that have original amortization terms greater than 189 months and OLTVs of less than or equal to 80 percent(
CRT80NotF15
%
).
(D) The duration of seasoning.
(E) An Enterprise must use the following method to calculate LTF
%
for single-family CRTs: Calculate CRT months to maturity (
CRTMthstoMaturity
) using one of the following methods:
(
1
) For single-family CRTs with reimbursement based upon occurrence or resolution of delinquency,
CRTMthstoMaturity
is the difference between the CRT's maturity date and original closing date, except for the following:
(
i
) If the coverage based upon delinquency is between one and three months, add 24 months to the difference between the CRT's maturity date and original closing date; and
(
ii
) If the coverage based upon delinquency is between four and six months, add 18 months to the difference between the CRT's maturity date and original closing date.
(
2
) For all other single-family CRTs,
CRTMthstoMaturity
is the difference between the CRT's maturity date and original closing date.
(
i
) If
CRTMthstoMaturity
is a multiple of 12, then an Enterprise must use the first column of Table 2 to paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(E)(
2
)(
iii
) of this section to identify the row matching
CRTMthstoMaturity
and take a weighted average of the three loss timing factors in columns 2, 3, and 4 as follows:
ER16MR22.001
(
ii
) If
CRTMthstoMaturity
is not a multiple of 12, an Enterprise must use the first column of Table 2 to paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(E)(
2
)(
iii
) of this section to identify the two rows that are closest to
CRTMthstoMaturity
and take a weighted average between the two rows of loss timing factors using linear interpolation, where the weights reflect
CRTMthstoMaturity.
(
iii
) For seasoned single-family CRTs, the
LTF
%
,
is calculated:
ER17DE20.049
where:
CRTLT
M
is the loss timing factor calculated under (ii) of this subsection.
CRTLT
S
is the loss timing factor calculated under (ii) of this subsection replacing
CRTMthstoMaturity
with the duration of seasoning.
CRTMthstoMaturity
is calculated as per (E) of this section.
CRTLT
15 is the CRT loss timing factor for pool groups backed by single-family mortgage exposures with original amortization terms
= 189 months.
CRTLT
80
Not
15: is the CRT loss timing factor for pool groups backed by single-family mortgage exposures with original amortization terms
189 months and OLTVs
=80 percent.
CRTLTGT
80
Not
15 is the CRT loss timing factor for pool groups backed by single-family mortgage exposures with original amortization terms
189 months and OLTVs
80 percent.
ER17DE20.050
(10) Parameter
RWA
$
is the aggregate credit risk-weighted assets associated with the underlying mortgage exposures.
(11) Parameter
CntptyRWA
$
is the aggregate credit risk-weighted assets due to counterparty haircuts from loan-
level credit enhancements.
CntptyRWA
$
is the difference between:
(i) Parameter
RWA
$
; and
(ii) Aggregate credit risk-weighted assets associated with the underlying mortgage exposures where the counterparty haircuts for loan-level credit enhancements are set to zero.
(c)
Mechanics of the CRTA.
The risk weight assigned to a retained CRT exposure, or portion of a retained CRT exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of
RW
%
determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 5 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter
D,
for a retained CRT exposure is less than or equal to the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%
, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent.
(2) When the attachment point, parameter
A,
for a retained CRT exposure is greater than or equal to or equal to the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%
,determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 5 percent.
(3) When parameter
A
is less than or equal to the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%
, andparameter
D
is greater than the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%,
the Enterprise must calculate the risk weight as the sum of:
(i) 1,250 percent multiplied by the ratio of (A) the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%
minus parameter
A
to (B) the difference between parameter
D
and parameter
A
; and
(ii) 5 percent multiplied by the ratio of (A) parameter
D
minus the sum of
K
A
and
AggEL
%
to (B) the difference between parameter
D
and parameter
A.
(d)
CRTA equations.
ER16MR22.002
If the contractual terms of the CRT do not provide for the transfer of the counterparty credit risk associated with any loan-level credit enhancement or other loss sharing on the underlying mortgage exposures, then the Enterprise shall calculate
K
A
as follows:
ER17DE20.053
Otherwise the Enterprise shall calculate
K
A
as follows:
ER17DE20.054
(e)
Limitations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an Enterprise must assign an overall risk weight of not less than 5 percent to a retained CRT exposure.
(f)
Adjusted exposure amount (AEA)
—(1)
In general.
The adjusted exposure amount (AEA) of a retained CRT exposure is equal to:
ER17DE20.055
(2)
Inputs
—(i)
Enterprise adjusted exposure.
The adjusted exposure (EAE) of an Enterprise with respect to a retained CRT exposure is as follows:
ER16MR22.003
Where the loss timing effectiveness adjustments (LTEA) for a retained CRT exposure are determined under paragraph (g) of this section, and the loss sharing effectiveness adjustment (LSEA) for a retained CRT exposure is determined under paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii)
Expected loss share.
The expected loss share is the share of a tranche that is covered by expected loss (ELS):
ER17DE20.056
(iii)
Risk weight.
The risk weight of a retained CRT exposure is determined under paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Loss timing effectiveness adjustments.
The loss timing effectiveness adjustments (LTEA) for a retained CRT exposure is calculated according to the following calculation:
i
ƒ (
SLS
%,Tranche
−
ELS
%,Tranche
)
0
then
LTEA
%
,Tranche,CM
ER16MR22.004
LTEA
%
,Tranche,LS
ER17DE20.058
Otherwise LTEA
%
,Tranche,CM
= 100%
and LTEA
%
,Tranche,LS
= 100%
where K
A
adjusted for loss timing (LTK
A
) is as follows:
LTK
A,CM
= max ((
K
A
+
AggEL
%
) *
LTF
%
,CM
−
AggEL
%
, 0%)
LTK
A,LS
= max ((
K
A
+
AggEL
%
) *
LTF
%
,LS
−
AggEL
%
, 0%)
and
LTF
%
,CM
is LTF
%
calculated for the capital markets component of the tranche,
LTF
%
,LS
is LTF
%
calculated for the loss sharing component of the tranche, and the share of the tranche that is covered by expected loss (ELS) and the share of the tranche that is covered by stress loss (SLS) are as follows:
ER17DE20.059
(h)
Loss sharing effectiveness adjustment.
The loss sharing effectiveness adjustment (LSEA) for a retained CRT exposure is calculated according to the following calculation:
if
(
RW
%
,Tranche
−
ELS
%
,Tranche
* 1250%)
0
then
ER16MR22.005
Otherwise
LSEA
%
,Tranche
= 100%
where
UnCollatUL
%
,Tranche
=
max
(0%,
SLS
%
,Tranche
−
max
(
Collat
%
RIF,Tranche
,
ELS
%
,Tranche
))
SRIF
%
,Tranche
= 100% −
max
(
SLS
%
,Tranche
,
Collat
%
RIF,Tranche
)
and the share of the tranche that is covered by expected loss (ELS) and the share of the tranche that is covered by stress loss (SLS) are as follows:
ER17DE20.061
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
RWA supplement for retained loan-level counterparty credit risk.
If the Enterprise elects to use the CRTA for a retained CRT exposure and if the contractual terms of the CRT do not provide for the transfer of the counterparty credit risk associated with any loan-level credit enhancement or other loss sharing on the underlying mortgage exposures, then the Enterprise must add the following risk-weighted assets supplement (
RWASup
$
) to risk weighted assets for the retained CRT exposure.
RWASup
$,
Tranche
=
CntptyRWA
$
* (
D
−
A
)
Otherwise the Enterprise shall add an
RWASup
$,
Tranche
of $0.
(k)
Retained CRT Exposure.
Credit risk-weighted assets for the retained CRT exposure are as follows:
RWA
$,
Tranche
=
AEA
$,
Tranche
*
RW
%
,Tranche
+
RWASup
$,
Tranche
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022]
§ 1240.45
Securitization exposures to which the SSFA and the CRTA do not apply.
An Enterprise must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to any acquired CRT exposure and all securitization exposures to which the Enterprise does not apply the SSFA under § 1240.43 or the CRTA under § 1240.44.
§ 1240.46
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) An originating Enterprise that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge its exposure to a synthetic or traditional securitization that satisfies the operational criteria provided in § 1240.41 may recognize the credit risk mitigant under § 1240.38 or § 1240.39, but only as provided in this section.
(2) An investing Enterprise that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge a securitization exposure may recognize the credit risk mitigant under § 1240.38 or § 1240.39, but only as provided in this section.
(b)
Mismatches.
An Enterprise must make any applicable adjustment to the protection amount of an eligible guarantee or credit derivative as required in § 1240.38(d) through (f) for any hedged securitization exposure. In the context of a synthetic securitization, when an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures that have different residual maturities, the Enterprise must use the longest residual maturity of any of the hedged exposures as the residual maturity of all hedged exposures.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
§ 1240.51
Introduction and exposure measurement.
(a)
General.
(1) To calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures, an Enterprise must use the Simple Risk-Weight Approach (SRWA) provided in § 1240.52.
(2) An Enterprise must treat an investment in a separate account (as defined in § 1240.2) as if it were an equity exposure to an investment fund.
(b)
Adjusted carrying value.
For purposes of §§ 1240.51 and 1240.52, the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure is:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure, the Enterprise's carrying value of the exposure;
(2) [Reserved]
(3) For the off-balance sheet component of an equity exposure that is not an equity commitment, the effective notional principal amount of the exposure, the size of which is equivalent to a hypothetical on-balance sheet position in the underlying equity instrument that would evidence the same change in fair value (measured in dollars) given a small change in the price of the underlying equity instrument, minus the adjusted carrying value of the on-balance sheet component of the exposure as calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(4) For a commitment to acquire an equity exposure (an equity commitment), the effective notional principal amount of the exposure is multiplied by the following conversion factors (CFs):
(i) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of one year or less receive a CF of 20 percent.
(ii) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of over one year receive a CF of 50 percent.
(iii) Unconditional equity commitments receive a CF of 100 percent.
§ 1240.52
Simple risk-weight approach (SRWA).
(a)
General.
Under the SRWA, an Enterprise's total risk-weighted assets for equity exposures equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the Enterprise's individual equity exposures as determined under this section.
(b)
SRWA computation for individual equity exposures.
An Enterprise must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for an individual equity exposure by multiplying the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure by the lowest applicable risk weight in this section.
(1)
Community development equity exposures.
A 100 percent risk weight is assigned to an equity exposure that was acquired with the prior written approval of FHFA and is designed primarily to promote community welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families, such as by providing services or employment, and excluding equity exposures to an unconsolidated small business investment company and equity exposures held through a small business investment company described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682).
(2)
Other equity exposures.
A 400 percent risk weight is assigned to an equity exposure to an operating company or an investment in a separate account.
§§ 1240.53-1240.60
[Reserved]
§ 1240.61
Purpose and scope.
Sections 1240.61 through 1240.63 of this subpart establish public disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements and buffers described in subpart B and subpart G.
[87 FR 33429, June 2, 2022]
§ 1240.62
Disclosure requirements.
(a) An Enterprise must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of the information in the applicable tables in § 1240.63, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements timely means no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its corresponding Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K at the end of a fiscal year or its corresponding Quarterly Report on SEC Form 10-Q at the end of other calendar quarters. If a material change occurs, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements a material change means a change such that the omission or misstatement of which could change or influence the assessment or decision of a user relying on that information for the purpose of making investment decisions, then an Enterprise must disclose a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact as soon as practicable thereafter, and no later than the end of the next calendar quarter. Qualitative disclosures that have not changed from the prior quarter may be omitted from the next quarterly disclosure but must be disclosed at least annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter.
(b) Unless otherwise directed by FHFA, the Enterprise's management may provide all of the disclosures required by §§ 1240.61 through 1240.63 in one place on the Enterprise's public website or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the Enterprise publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
(c) An Enterprise must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses its approach for determining the disclosures it makes. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures.
(d) The Enterprise's board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over the disclosures required by this subpart, and must ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. The Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Enterprise must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart.
(e) If an Enterprise believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public certain information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the Enterprise is not required to disclose these specific items but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed.
[87 FR 33429, June 2, 2022]
§ 1240.63
Disclosures.
(a) Except as provided in § 1240.62, an Enterprise must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 11 of this section publicly available for each of the last three years (that is, twelve quarters) or such shorter period until an Enterprise has made twelve quarterly disclosures pursuant to this part beginning with the disclosure for the quarter ending December 31, 2022.
(b) An Enterprise must publicly disclose each quarter the following:
(1) Regulatory capital ratios for common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital, tier 2 capital, total capital, core capital, and adjusted total capital, including the regulatory capital elements and all the regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator of such ratios;
(2) Total risk-weighted assets, including the different regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate total risk-weighted assets; and
(3) A reconciliation of regulatory capital elements as they relate to its balance sheet in any audited consolidated financial statements.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)—Capital Structure
Qualitative disclosures
(a) Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all regulatory capital instruments.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) The amount of common equity tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Common stock and related surplus;
(2) Retained earnings;
(3) AOCI (net of tax) and other reserves; and
(4) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to common equity tier 1 capital.
(c) The amount of core capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) The par or stated value of outstanding common stock;
(2) The par or stated value of outstanding perpetual, noncumulative preferred stock;
(3) Paid-in capital; and
(4) Retained earnings.
(d) The amount of tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Additional tier 1 capital elements, including additional tier 1 capital instruments and tier 1 minority interest not included in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to tier 1 capital.
(e) The amount of total capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) The general allowance for foreclosure losses; and
(2) Other amounts from sources of funds available to absorb losses incurred by the Enterprise that the Director by regulation determines are appropriate to include in determining total capital.
(f) The amount of adjusted total capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Tier 2 capital elements, including tier 2 capital instruments; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to adjusted total capital.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)—Capital Adequacy
Qualitative disclosures
(a) A summary discussion of the Enterprise's approach to assessing the adequacy of its capital to support current and future activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) Risk-weighted assets for:
(1) Exposures to sovereign entities;
(2) Exposures to certain supranational entities and MDBs;
(3) Exposures to GSEs;
(4) Exposures to depository institutions and credit unions;
(5) Exposures to PSEs;
(6) Corporate exposures;
(7) Aggregate single-family mortgage exposures categorized by:
(i) Performing loans;
(ii) Non-modified re-performing loans;
(iii) Modified re-performing loans;
(iv) Non-performing loans;
(8) Aggregate multifamily mortgage exposures categorized by:
(i) Multifamily fixed-rate exposures;
(ii) Multifamily adjustable-rate exposures;
(9) Past due loans;
(10) Other assets;
(11) Insurance assets;
(12) Off-balance sheet exposures;
(13) Cleared transactions;
(14) Default fund contributions;
(15) Unsettled transactions;
(16) CRT and other securitization exposures; and
(17) Equity exposures.
(c) Standardized market risk-weighted assets as calculated under subpart F of this part.
(d) Risk-weighted assets for operational risk.
(e) Common equity tier 1, tier 1, and adjusted total risk-based capital ratios.
(f) Total standardized risk-weighted assets.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)—Capital Buffers
Qualitative disclosures
(a) A summary discussion of the Enterprise's capital buffers.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) At least quarterly, the Enterprise must calculate and publicly disclose the prescribed capital conservation buffer amount and all its components as described under § 1240.11.
(c) At least quarterly, the Enterprise must calculate and publicly disclose the prescribed leverage buffer amount as described under § 1240.11.
(d) At least quarterly, the Enterprise must calculate and publicly disclose the eligible retained income of the Enterprise, as described under § 1240.11.
(e) At least quarterly, the Enterprise must calculate and publicly disclose any limitations it has on distributions and discretionary bonus payments resulting from the capital buffer framework described under § 1240.11, including the maximum payout amount for the quarter.
(c) For each separate risk area described in Tables 4 through 9, the Enterprise must, as a general qualitative disclosure requirement, describe its risk management objectives and policies, including: Strategies and processes; the structure and organization of the relevant risk management function; the scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges and/or mitigants.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
c
)
1
—Credit Risk: General Disclosures
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk disclosed in accordance with Table 5 of this section), including the:
(1) Policy for determining past due or delinquency status;
(2) Policy for placing loans on nonaccrual;
(3) Policy for returning loans to accrual status;
(4) Description of the methodology that the Enterprise uses to estimate its adjusted allowance for credit losses, including statistical methods used where applicable;
(5) Policy for charging-off uncollectible amounts; and
(6) Discussion of the Enterprise's credit risk management policy.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) Total credit risk exposures and average credit risk exposures, after accounting offsets in accordance with GAAP, without taking into account the effects of credit risk mitigation techniques (for example, collateral and netting not permitted under GAAP), over the period categorized by major types of credit exposure. For example, the Enterprises could use categories similar to that used for financial statement purposes. Such categories might include, for instance:
(1) Loans, off-balance sheet commitments, and other non-derivative off-balance sheet exposures;
(2) Debt securities; and
(3) OTC derivatives.
(c) Geographic distribution of exposures, categorized in significant areas by major types of credit exposure.
2
(d) Industry or counterparty type distribution of exposures, categorized by major types of credit exposure.
(e) By major industry or counterparty type:
(1) Amount of loans not past due or past due less than 30 days;
(2) Amount of loans past due 30 days but less than 90 days;
(3) Amount of loans past due 90 days and on nonaccrual;
(4) Amount of loans past due 90 days and still accruing;
3
(5) The balance in the adjusted allowance for credit losses at the end of each period, disaggregated on the basis of loans not past due or past due less than 30 days, loans past due 30 days but less than 90 days, loans past due 90 days and on nonaccrual, and loans past due 90 days and still accruing; and
(6) Charge-offs during the period.
(f) Amount of past due loans categorized by significant geographic areas including, if practical, the amounts of allowances related to each geographical area,
4
further categorized as required by GAAP.
(g) Reconciliation of changes in the adjusted allowance for credit losses.
5
(h) Remaining contractual maturity delineation (for example, one year or less) of the whole portfolio, categorized by credit exposure.
1
Table 4 does not cover equity exposures, which should be reported in Table 8 of this section.
2
Geographical areas consist of areas within the United States and territories. An Enterprise might choose to define the geographical areas based on the way the Enterprise's portfolio is geographically managed. The criteria used to allocate the loans to geographical areas must be specified.
3
An Enterprise may, but is not required to, also provide an analysis of the aging of past-due loans.
4
The portion of the general allowance that is not allocated to a geographical area should be disclosed separately.
5
The reconciliation should include the following: A description of the allowance; the opening balance of the allowance; charge-offs taken against the allowance during the period; amounts provided (or reversed) for estimated expected credit losses during the period; any other adjustments (for example, exchange rate differences, business combinations, acquisitions, and disposals of subsidiaries), including transfers between allowances; and the closing balance of the allowance. Charge-offs and recoveries that have been recorded directly to the income statement should be disclosed separately.
Table 5 to Paragraph (
c
)—General Disclosure for Counterparty Credit Risk-Related Exposures
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to OTC derivatives, eligible margin loans, and repo-style transactions, including a discussion of:
(1) The methodology used to assign credit limits for counterparty credit exposures;
(2) Policies for securing collateral, valuing and managing collateral, and establishing credit reserves;
(3) The primary types of collateral taken; and
(4) The impact of the amount of collateral the Enterprise would have to provide given a deterioration in the Enterprise's own creditworthiness.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b) Gross positive fair value of contracts, collateral held (including type, for example, cash, government securities), and net unsecured credit exposure.
1
An Enterprise also must disclose the notional value of credit derivative hedges purchased for counterparty credit risk protection and the distribution of current credit exposure by exposure type.
2
(c) Notional amount of purchased and sold credit derivatives, segregated between use for the Enterprise's own credit portfolio and in its intermediation activities, including the distribution of the credit derivative products used, categorized further by protection bought and sold within each product group.
1
Net unsecured credit exposure is the credit exposure after considering both the benefits from legally enforceable netting agreements and collateral arrangements without taking into account haircuts for price volatility, liquidity, etc.
2
This may include interest rate derivative contracts, foreign exchange derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, credit derivatives, commodity or other derivative contracts, repo-style transactions, and eligible margin loans.
Table 6 to Paragraph (
c
)—Credit Risk Mitigation
1
2
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk mitigation, including:
(1) Policies and processes for collateral valuation and management;
(2) A description of the main types of collateral taken by the Enterprise;
(3) The main types of guarantors/credit derivative counterparties and their creditworthiness; and
(4) Information about (market or credit) risk concentrations with respect to credit risk mitigation.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b) For each separately disclosed credit risk portfolio, the total exposure that is covered by eligible financial collateral, and after the application of haircuts.
(c) For each separately disclosed portfolio, the total exposure that is covered by guarantees/credit derivatives and the risk-weighted asset amount associated with that exposure.
1
At a minimum, an Enterprise must provide the disclosures in Table 6 in relation to credit risk mitigation that has been recognized for the purposes of reducing capital requirements under this subpart. Where relevant, the Enterprises may give further information about mitigants that have not been recognized for that purpose.
2
Credit derivatives that are treated, for the purposes of this subpart, as synthetic securitization exposures should be excluded from the credit risk mitigation disclosures and included within those relating to securitization (Table 7 of this section).
Table 7 to Paragraph (
c
)—CRT and Securitization
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to a securitization (including synthetic securitizations), including a discussion of:
(1) The Enterprise's objectives for securitizing assets, including the extent to which these activities transfer credit risk of the underlying exposures away from the Enterprise to other entities and including the type of risks assumed and retained with resecuritization activity;
1
(2) The nature of the risks (
e.g.,
liquidity risk) inherent in the securitized assets;
(3) The roles played by the Enterprise in the securitization process
2
and an indication of the extent of the Enterprise's involvement in each of them;
(4) The processes in place to monitor changes in the credit and market risk of securitization exposures including how those processes differ for resecuritization exposures;
(5) The Enterprise's policy for mitigating the credit risk retained through securitization and resecuritization exposures; and
(6) The risk-based capital approaches that the Enterprise follows for its securitization exposures including the type of securitization exposure to which each approach applies.
(b) A list of:
(1) The type of securitization SPEs that the Enterprise, as sponsor, uses to securitize third-party exposures. The Enterprise must indicate whether it has exposure to these SPEs, either on- or off-balance sheet; and
(2) Affiliated entities:
(i) That the Enterprise manages or advises; and
(ii) That invest either in the securitization exposures that the Enterprise has securitized or in securitization SPEs that the Enterprise sponsors.
3
(c) Summary of the Enterprise's accounting policies for CRT and securitization activities, including:
(1) Whether the transactions are treated as sales (
i.e.,
sale accounting has been obtained) or financings;
(2) Recognition of gain-on-sale;
(3) Methods and key assumptions applied in valuing retained or purchased interests;
(4) Changes in methods and key assumptions from the previous period for valuing retained interests and impact of the changes;
(5) Treatment of synthetic securitizations;
(6) How exposures intended to be securitized are valued and whether they are recorded under subpart D of this part; and
(7) Policies for recognizing liabilities on the balance sheet for arrangements that could require the Enterprise to provide financial support for securitized assets.
(d) An explanation of significant changes to any quantitative information since the last reporting period.
Quantitative Disclosures
(e) The total outstanding exposures securitized by the Enterprise in securitizations that meet the operational criteria provided in § 1240.41 (categorized into traditional and synthetic securitizations), by exposure type, separately for securitizations of third-party exposures for which the Enterprise acts only as sponsor.
4
(f) For exposures securitized by the Enterprise in securitizations that meet the operational criteria in § 1240.41:
(1) Amount of securitized assets that are past due categorized by exposure type; and
(2) Losses recognized by the Enterprise during the current period categorized by exposure type.
5
(g) The total amount of outstanding exposures intended to be securitized categorized by exposure type.
(h) Aggregate amount of:
(1) On-balance sheet securitization exposures retained or purchased categorized by exposure type; and
(2) Off-balance sheet securitization exposures categorized by exposure type.
(i)(1) Aggregate amount of securitization exposures retained or purchased and the associated capital requirements for these exposures, categorized between securitization and resecuritization exposures, further categorized into a meaningful number of risk weight bands and by risk-based capital approach (
e.g.,
CRTA, SSFA); and
(2) Aggregate amount disclosed separately by type of underlying exposure in the pool of any:
(i) After-tax gain-on-sale on a securitization that has been deducted from common equity tier 1 capital; and
(ii) Credit-enhancing interest-only strip that is assigned a 1,250 percent risk weight.
(j) Summary of current year's securitization activity, including the amount of exposures securitized (by exposure type), and recognized gain or loss on sale by exposure type.
(k) Aggregate amount of resecuritization exposures retained or purchased categorized according to:
(1) Exposures to which credit risk mitigation is applied and those not applied; and
(2) Exposures to guarantors categorized according to guarantor creditworthiness categories or guarantor name.
1
The Enterprise should describe the structure of resecuritizations in which it participates; this description should be provided for the main categories of resecuritization products in which the Enterprise is active.
2
For example, these roles may include originator, investor, servicer, provider of credit enhancement, sponsor, liquidity provider, or swap provider.
3
Such affiliated entities may include, for example, money market funds, to be listed individually, and personal and private trusts, to be noted collectively.
4
“Exposures securitized” include underlying exposures originated by the Enterprise, whether generated by them or purchased, and recognized in the balance sheet, from third parties, and third-party exposures included in sponsored transactions. Securitization transactions (including underlying exposures originally on the Enterprise's balance sheet and underlying exposures acquired by the Enterprise from third-party entities) in which the originating Enterprise does not retain any securitization exposure should be shown separately but need only be reported for the year of inception. Enterprises are required to disclose exposures regardless of whether there is a capital charge under this part.
5
For example, charge-offs/allowances (if the assets remain on the Enterprise's balance sheet) or credit-related write-off of interest-only strips and other retained residual interests, as well as recognition of liabilities for probable future financial support required of the Enterprise with respect to securitized assets.
Table 8 to Paragraph (
c
)—Equities
Qualitative Disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to equity risk for equities, including:
(1) Differentiation between holdings on which capital gains are expected and those taken under other objectives including for relationship and strategic reasons; and
(2) Discussion of important policies covering the valuation of and accounting for equity holdings. This includes the accounting techniques and valuation methodologies used, including key assumptions and practices affecting valuation as well as significant changes in these practices.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b) Carrying value disclosed on the balance sheet of investments, as well as the fair value of those investments; for securities that are publicly traded, a comparison to publicly-quoted share values where the share price is materially different from fair value.
(c) The types and nature of investments, including the amount that is:
(1) Publicly traded; and
(2) Non publicly traded.
(d) The cumulative realized gains (losses) arising from sales and liquidations in the reporting period.
(e)(1) Total unrealized gains (losses) recognized on the balance sheet but not through earnings.
(2) Total unrealized gains (losses) not recognized either on the balance sheet or through earnings.
(3) Any amounts of the above included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital.
(f) Capital requirements categorized by appropriate equity groupings, consistent with the Enterprise's methodology, as well as the aggregate amounts and the type of equity investments subject to any supervisory transition regarding regulatory capital requirements.
1
1
This disclosure must include a breakdown of equities that are subject to the 0 percent, 20 percent, 100 percent, 300 percent, 400 percent, and 600 percent risk weights, as applicable.
Table 9 to Paragraph (
c
)—Interest Rate Risk for Non-Trading Activities
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement, including the nature of interest rate risk for non-trading activities and key assumptions, including assumptions regarding loan prepayments and frequency of measurement of interest rate risk for non-trading activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) The increase (decline) in earnings or economic value (or relevant measure used by management) for upward and downward rate shocks according to management's method for measuring interest rate risk for non-trading activities, categorized by currency (as appropriate).
Table 10 to Paragraph (
c
)—Operational Risk
Qualitative disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement for operational risk.
(b) Description of the AMA, when applicable, including a discussion of relevant internal and external factors considered in the Enterprise's measurement approach.
(c) A description of the use of insurance for the purpose of mitigating operational risk.
Table 11 to Paragraph (
c
)—Tier 1 Leverage Ratio
Dollar amounts in thousands
Tril
Bil
Mil
Thou
Part 1: Summary comparison of accounting assets and adjusted total assets
1 Total consolidated assets as reported in published financial statements
2 Adjustment for fiduciary assets recognized on balance sheet but excluded from total leverage exposure
3 Adjustment for derivative exposures
4 Adjustment for repo-style transactions
5 Adjustment for off-balance sheet exposures (that is, conversion to credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet exposures)
6 Other adjustments
7 Adjusted total assets (sum of lines 1 to 6)
Part 2: Tier 1 leverage ratio
On-balance sheet exposures
1 On-balance sheet assets (excluding on-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions and derivative exposures, but including cash collateral received in derivative transactions)
2 LESS: Amounts deducted from tier 1 capital
3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (excluding on-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions and derivative exposures, but including cash collateral received in derivative transactions) (sum of lines 1 and 2)
Derivative exposures
4 Current exposure for derivative exposures (that is, net of cash variation margin)
5 Add-on amounts for potential future exposure (PFE) for derivative exposures
6 Gross-up for cash collateral posted if deducted from the on-balance sheet assets, except for cash variation margin
7 LESS: Deductions of receivable assets for cash variation margin posted in derivative transactions, if included in on-balance sheet assets
8 LESS: Exempted CCP leg of client-cleared transactions
9 Effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection
10 LESS: Effective notional principal amount offsets and PFE adjustments for sold credit protection
11 Total derivative exposures (sum of lines 4 to 10)
Repo-style transactions
12 On-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions, except include the gross value of receivables for reverse repurchase transactions. Exclude from this item the value of securities received in a security-for-security repo-style transaction where the securities lender has not sold or re-hypothecated the securities received. Include in this item the value of securities that qualified for sales treatment that must be reversed
13 LESS: Reduction of the gross value of receivables in reverse repurchase transactions by cash payables in repurchase transactions under netting agreements
14 Counterparty credit risk for all repo-style transactions
15 Exposure for repo-style transactions where a banking organization acts as an agent
16 Total exposures for repo-style transactions (sum of lines 12 to 15)
Other off-balance sheet exposures
17 Off-balance sheet exposures at gross notional amounts
18 LESS: Adjustments for conversion to credit equivalent amounts
19 Off-balance sheet exposures (sum of lines 17 and 18)
Capital and adjusted total assets
20 Tier 1 capital
21 Adjusted total assets (sum of lines 3, 11, 16, and 19)
Tier 1 leverage ratio
22 Tier 1 leverage ratio
(in percent)
[87 FR 33429, June 2, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 37979, June 27, 2022]

# Subpart E—Risk-Weighted Assets—Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
§ 1240.100
Purpose, applicability, and principle of conservatism.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart establishes:
(1) Minimum requirements for using Enterprise-specific internal risk measurement and management processes for calculating risk-based capital requirements; and
(2) Methodologies for the Enterprises to calculate their advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart applies to each Enterprise.
(2) An Enterprise must also include in its calculation of advanced credit risk-weighted assets under this subpart all covered positions, as defined in subpart F of this part.
(c)
Principle of conservatism.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this subpart, an Enterprise may choose not to apply a provision of this subpart to one or more exposures provided that:
(1) The Enterprise can demonstrate on an ongoing basis to the satisfaction of FHFA that not applying the provision would, in all circumstances, unambiguously generate a risk-based capital requirement for each such exposure greater than that which would otherwise be required under this subpart;
(2) The Enterprise appropriately manages the risk of each such exposure;
(3) The Enterprise notifies FHFA in writing prior to applying this principle to each such exposure; and
(4) The exposures to which the Enterprise applies this principle are not, in the aggregate, material to the Enterprise.
§ 1240.101
Definitions.
(a) Terms that are set forth in § 1240.2 and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned thereto in § 1240.2.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms are defined as follows:
Advanced internal ratings-based (IRB) systems
means an Enterprise's internal risk rating and segmentation system; risk parameter quantification system; data management and maintenance system; and control, oversight, and validation system for credit risk of exposures.
Advanced systems
means an Enterprise's advanced IRB systems, operational risk management processes, operational risk data and assessment systems, operational risk quantification systems, and, to the extent used by the Enterprise, the internal models methodology, advanced CVA approach, double default excessive correlation detection process, and internal models approach (IMA) for equity exposures.
Backtesting
means the comparison of an Enterprise's internal estimates with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development. In this context, backtesting is one form of out-of-sample testing.
Benchmarking
means the comparison of an Enterprise's internal estimates with relevant internal and external data or with estimates based on other estimation techniques.
Business environment and internal control factors
means the indicators of an Enterprise's operational risk profile that reflect a current and forward-looking assessment of the Enterprise's underlying business risk factors and internal control environment.
Dependence
means a measure of the association among operational losses across and within units of measure.
Economic downturn conditions
means, with respect to an exposure held by the Enterprise, those conditions in which the aggregate default rates for that exposure's exposure subcategory (or subdivision of such subcategory selected by the Enterprise) in the exposure's jurisdiction (or subdivision of such jurisdiction selected by the Enterprise) are significantly higher than average.
Eligible operational risk offsets
means amounts, not to exceed expected operational loss, that:
(i) Are generated by internal business practices to absorb highly predictable and reasonably stable operational losses, including reserves calculated consistent with GAAP; and
(ii) Are available to cover expected operational losses with a high degree of certainty over a one-year horizon.
Expected operational loss (EOL)
means the expected value of the distribution of potential aggregate operational losses, as generated by the Enterprise's operational risk quantification system using a one-year horizon.
External operational loss event data
means, with respect to an Enterprise, gross operational loss amounts, dates, recoveries, and relevant causal information for operational loss events occurring at organizations other than the Enterprise.
Internal operational loss event data
means, with respect to an Enterprise, gross operational loss amounts, dates, recoveries, and relevant causal information for operational loss events occurring at the Enterprise.
Operational loss
means a loss (excluding insurance or tax effects) resulting from an operational loss event. Operational loss includes all expenses associated with an operational loss event except for opportunity costs, forgone revenue, and costs related to risk management and control enhancements implemented to prevent future operational losses.
Operational loss event
means an event that results in loss and is associated with any of the following seven operational loss event type categories:
(i) Internal fraud, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from an act involving at least one internal party of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property, or circumvent regulations, the law, or company policy excluding diversity- and discrimination-type events.
(ii) External fraud, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from an act by a third party of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property, or circumvent the law. All third-party-initiated credit losses are to be treated as credit risk losses.
(iii) Employment practices and workplace safety, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting
from an act inconsistent with employment, health, or safety laws or agreements, payment of personal injury claims, or payment arising from diversity- and discrimination-type events.
(iv) Clients, products, and business practices, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from the nature or design of a product or from an unintentional or negligent failure to meet a professional obligation to specific clients (including fiduciary and suitability requirements).
(v) Damage to physical assets, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from the loss of or damage to physical assets from natural disaster or other events.
(vi) Business disruption and system failures, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from disruption of business or system failures.
(vii) Execution, delivery, and process management, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from failed transaction processing or process management or losses arising from relations with trade counterparties and vendors.
Operational risk
means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events (including legal risk but excluding strategic and reputational risk).
Operational risk exposure
means the 99.9th percentile of the distribution of potential aggregate operational losses, as generated by the Enterprise's operational risk quantification system over a one-year horizon (and not incorporating eligible operational risk offsets or qualifying operational risk mitigants).
Risk parameter
means a variable used in determining risk-based capital requirements for exposures, such as probability of default, loss given default, exposure at default, or effective maturity.
Scenario analysis
means a systematic process of obtaining expert opinions from business managers and risk management experts to derive reasoned assessments of the likelihood and loss impact of plausible high-severity operational losses. Scenario analysis may include the well-reasoned evaluation and use of external operational loss event data, adjusted as appropriate to ensure relevance to an Enterprise's operational risk profile and control structure.
Unexpected operational loss (UOL)
means the difference between the Enterprise's operational risk exposure and the Enterprise's expected operational loss.
Unit of measure
means the level (for example, organizational unit or operational loss event type) at which the Enterprise's operational risk quantification system generates a separate distribution of potential operational losses.
§ 1240.121
Minimum requirements.
(a)
Process and systems requirements.
(1) An Enterprise must have a rigorous process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.
(2) The systems and processes used by an Enterprise for risk-based capital purposes under this subpart must be consistent with the Enterprise's internal risk management processes and management information reporting systems.
(3) Each Enterprise must have an appropriate infrastructure with risk measurement and management processes that meet the requirements of this section and are appropriate given the Enterprise's size and level of complexity. The Enterprise must ensure that the risk parameters and reference data used to determine its risk-based capital requirements are representative of long run experience with respect to its credit risk and operational risk exposures.
(b)
Risk rating and segmentation systems for exposures.
(1) An Enterprise must have an internal risk rating and segmentation system that accurately, reliably, and meaningfully differentiates among degrees of credit risk for
the Enterprise's exposures. When assigning an internal risk rating, an Enterprise may consider a third-party assessment of credit risk, provided that the Enterprise's internal risk rating assignment does not rely solely on the external assessment.
(2) If an Enterprise uses multiple rating or segmentation systems, the Enterprise's rationale for assigning an exposure to a particular system must be documented and applied in a manner that best reflects the obligor or exposure's level of risk. An Enterprise must not inappropriately allocate exposures across systems to minimize regulatory capital requirements.
(3) In assigning ratings to exposures, an Enterprise must use all relevant and material information and ensure that the information is current.
(c)
Quantification of risk parameters for exposures.
(1) The Enterprise must have a comprehensive risk parameter quantification process that produces accurate, timely, and reliable estimates of the risk parameters on a consistent basis for the Enterprise's exposures.
(2) An Enterprise's estimates of risk parameters must incorporate all relevant, material, and available data that is reflective of the Enterprise's actual exposures and of sufficient quality to support the determination of risk-based capital requirements for the exposures. In particular, the population of exposures in the data used for estimation purposes, the underwriting standards in use when the data were generated, and other relevant characteristics, should closely match or be comparable to the Enterprise's exposures and standards. In addition, an Enterprise must:
(i) Demonstrate that its estimates are representative of long run experience, including periods of economic downturn conditions, whether internal or external data are used;
(ii) Take into account any changes in underwriting practice or the process for pursuing recoveries over the observation period;
(iii) Promptly reflect technical advances, new data, and other information as they become available;
(iv) Demonstrate that the data used to estimate risk parameters support the accuracy and robustness of those estimates; and
(v) Demonstrate that its estimation technique performs well in out-of-sample tests whenever possible.
(3) The Enterprise's risk parameter quantification process must produce appropriately conservative risk parameter estimates where the Enterprise has limited relevant data, and any adjustments that are part of the quantification process must not result in a pattern of bias toward lower risk parameter estimates.
(4) The Enterprise's risk parameter estimation process should not rely on the possibility of U.S. government financial assistance.
(5) Default, loss severity, and exposure amount data must include periods of economic downturn conditions, or the Enterprise must adjust its estimates of risk parameters to compensate for the lack of data from periods of economic downturn conditions.
(6) If an Enterprise uses internal data obtained prior to becoming subject to this subpart or external data to arrive at risk parameter estimates, the Enterprise must demonstrate to FHFA that the Enterprise has made appropriate adjustments if necessary to be consistent with the Enterprise's definition of default. Internal data obtained after the Enterprise becomes subject to this subpart must be consistent with the Enterprise's definition of default.
(7) The Enterprise must review and update (as appropriate) its risk parameters and its risk parameter quantification process at least annually.
(8) The Enterprise must, at least annually, conduct a comprehensive review and analysis of reference data to determine relevance of the reference data to the Enterprise's exposures, quality of reference data to support risk parameter estimates, and consistency of reference data to the Enterprise's definition of default.
(d)
Operational risk
—(1)
Operational risk management processes.
An Enterprise must:
(i) Have an operational risk management function that:
(A) Is independent of business line management; and
(B) Is responsible for designing, implementing, and overseeing the Enterprise's operational risk data and assessment systems, operational risk quantification systems, and related processes;
(ii) Have and document a process (which must capture business environment and internal control factors affecting the Enterprise's operational risk profile) to identify, measure, monitor, and control operational risk in the Enterprise's products, activities, processes, and systems; and
(iii) Report operational risk exposures, operational loss events, and other relevant operational risk information to business unit management, senior management, and the board of directors (or a designated committee of the board).
(2)
Operational risk data and assessment systems.
An Enterprise must have operational risk data and assessment systems that capture operational risks to which the Enterprise is exposed. The Enterprise's operational risk data and assessment systems must:
(i) Be structured in a manner consistent with the Enterprise's current business activities, risk profile, technological processes, and risk management processes; and
(ii) Include credible, transparent, systematic, and verifiable processes that incorporate the following elements on an ongoing basis:
(A)
Internal operational loss event data.
The Enterprise must have a systematic process for capturing and using internal operational loss event data in its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(
1
) The Enterprise's operational risk data and assessment systems must include a historical observation period of at least five years for internal operational loss event data (or such shorter period approved by FHFA to address transitional situations, such as integrating a new business line).
(
2
) The Enterprise must be able to map its internal operational loss event data into the seven operational loss event type categories.
(
3
) The Enterprise may refrain from collecting internal operational loss event data for individual operational losses below established dollar threshold amounts if the Enterprise can demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA that the thresholds are reasonable, do not exclude important internal operational loss event data, and permit the Enterprise to capture substantially all the dollar value of the Enterprise's operational losses.
(B)
External operational loss event data.
The Enterprise must have a systematic process for determining its methodologies for incorporating external operational loss event data into its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(C)
Scenario analysis.
The Enterprise must have a systematic process for determining its methodologies for incorporating scenario analysis into its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(D)
Business environment and internal control factors.
The Enterprise must incorporate business environment and internal control factors into its operational risk data and assessment systems. The Enterprise must also periodically compare the results of its prior business environment and internal control factor assessments against its actual operational losses incurred in the intervening period.
(3)
Operational risk quantification systems.
The Enterprise's operational risk quantification systems:
(i) Must generate estimates of the Enterprise's operational risk exposure using its operational risk data and assessment systems;
(ii) Must employ a unit of measure that is appropriate for the Enterprise's range of business activities and the variety of operational loss events to which it is exposed, and that does not combine business activities or operational loss events with demonstrably different risk profiles within the same loss distribution;
(iii) Must include a credible, transparent, systematic, and verifiable approach for weighting each of the four elements, described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, that an Enterprise is required to incorporate into its operational risk data and assessment systems;
(iv) May use internal estimates of dependence among operational losses across and within units of measure if
the Enterprise can demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA that its process for estimating dependence is sound, robust to a variety of scenarios, and implemented with integrity, and allows for uncertainty surrounding the estimates. If the Enterprise has not made such a demonstration, it must sum operational risk exposure estimates across units of measure to calculate its total operational risk exposure; and
(v) Must be reviewed and updated (as appropriate) whenever the Enterprise becomes aware of information that may have a material effect on the Enterprise's estimate of operational risk exposure, but the review and update must occur no less frequently than annually.
(e)
Data management and maintenance.
(1) An Enterprise must have data management and maintenance systems that adequately support all aspects of its advanced systems and the timely and accurate reporting of risk-based capital requirements.
(2) An Enterprise must retain data using an electronic format that allows timely retrieval of data for analysis, validation, reporting, and disclosure purposes.
(3) An Enterprise must retain sufficient data elements related to key risk drivers to permit adequate monitoring, validation, and refinement of its advanced systems.
(f)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(1) The Enterprise's senior management must ensure that all components of the Enterprise's advanced systems function effectively and comply with the minimum requirements in this section.
(2) The Enterprise's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually review the effectiveness of, and approve, the Enterprise's advanced systems.
(3) An Enterprise must have an effective system of controls and oversight that:
(i) Ensures ongoing compliance with the minimum requirements in this section;
(ii) Maintains the integrity, reliability, and accuracy of the Enterprise's advanced systems; and
(iii) Includes adequate governance and project management processes.
(4) The Enterprise must validate, on an ongoing basis, its advanced systems. The Enterprise's validation process must be independent of the advanced systems' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:
(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the advanced systems;
(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking; and
(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting.
(5) The Enterprise must have an internal audit function or equivalent function that is independent of business-line management that at least annually:
(i) Reviews the Enterprise's advanced systems and associated operations, including the operations of its credit function and estimations of risk parameters;
(ii) Assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the Enterprise's advanced systems; and
(iii) Documents and reports its findings to the Enterprise's board of directors (or a committee thereof).
(6) The Enterprise must periodically stress test its advanced systems. The stress testing must include a consideration of how economic cycles, especially downturns, affect risk-based capital requirements (including migration across rating grades and segments and the credit risk mitigation benefits of double default treatment).
(g)
Documentation.
The Enterprise must adequately document all material aspects of its advanced systems.
§ 1240.122
Ongoing qualification.
(a)
Changes to advanced systems.
An Enterprise must meet all the minimum requirements in § 1240.121 on an ongoing basis. An Enterprise must notify FHFA when the Enterprise makes any change to an advanced system that would result in a material change in the Enterprise's advanced approaches total risk-weighted asset amount for an exposure type or when the Enterprise makes any
significant change to its modeling assumptions.
(b)
Failure to comply with qualification requirements.
(1) If FHFA determines that an Enterprise fails to comply with the requirements in § 1240.121, FHFA will notify the Enterprise in writing of the Enterprise's failure to comply.
(2) The Enterprise must establish and submit a plan satisfactory to FHFA to return to compliance with the qualification requirements.
(3) In addition, if FHFA determines that the Enterprise's advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets are not commensurate with the Enterprise's credit, market, operational, or other risks, FHFA may require such an Enterprise to calculate its advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets with any modifications provided by FHFA.
§ 1240.123
Advanced approaches credit risk-weighted asset calculations.
(a) An Enterprise must use its advanced systems to determine its credit risk capital requirements for each of the following exposures:
(1) General credit risk (including for mortgage exposures);
(2) Cleared transactions;
(3) Default fund contributions;
(4) Unsettled transactions;
(5) Securitization exposures;
(6) Equity exposures; and
(7) The fair value adjustment to reflect counterparty credit risk in valuation of OTC derivative contracts.
(b) The credit-risk-weighted assets calculated under this subpart E equals the aggregate credit risk capital requirement under paragraph (a) of this section multiplied by 12.5.
§§ 1240.124—1240.160
[Reserved]
§ 1240.161
Qualification requirements for incorporation of operational risk mitigants.
(a)
Qualification to use operational risk mitigants.
An Enterprise may adjust its estimate of operational risk exposure to reflect qualifying operational risk mitigants if:
(1) The Enterprise's operational risk quantification system is able to generate an estimate of the Enterprise's operational risk exposure (which does not incorporate qualifying operational risk mitigants) and an estimate of the Enterprise's operational risk exposure adjusted to incorporate qualifying operational risk mitigants; and
(2) The Enterprise's methodology for incorporating the effects of insurance, if the Enterprise uses insurance as an operational risk mitigant, captures through appropriate discounts to the amount of risk mitigation:
(i) The residual term of the policy, where less than one year;
(ii) The cancelation terms of the policy, where less than one year;
(iii) The policy's timeliness of payment;
(iv) The uncertainty of payment by the provider of the policy; and
(v) Mismatches in coverage between the policy and the hedged operational loss event.
(b)
Qualifying operational risk mitigants.
Qualifying operational risk mitigants are:
(1) Insurance that:
(i) Is provided by an unaffiliated company that the Enterprise deems to have strong capacity to meet its claims payment obligations and the Enterprise assigns the company a probability of default equal to or less than 10 basis points;
(ii) Has an initial term of at least one year and a residual term of more than 90 days;
(iii) Has a minimum notice period for cancellation by the provider of 90 days;
(iv) Has no exclusions or limitations based upon regulatory action or for the receiver or liquidator of a failed depository institution; and
(v) Is explicitly mapped to a potential operational loss event;
(2) In evaluating an operational risk mitigant other than insurance, FHFA will consider whether the operational risk mitigant covers potential operational losses in a manner equivalent to holding total capital.
§ 1240.162
Mechanics of operational risk risk-weighted asset calculation.
(a) If an Enterprise does not qualify to use or does not have qualifying operational risk mitigants, the Enterprise's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk is its operational risk exposure minus eligible operational risk offsets (if any).
(b) If an Enterprise qualifies to use operational risk mitigants and has qualifying operational risk mitigants, the Enterprise's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk is the greater of:
(1) The Enterprise's operational risk exposure adjusted for qualifying operational risk mitigants minus eligible operational risk offsets (if any); or
(2) 0.8 multiplied by the difference between:
(i) The Enterprise's operational risk exposure; and
(ii) Eligible operational risk offsets (if any).
(c) The Enterprise's risk-weighted asset amount for operational risk equals the greater of:
(1) The Enterprise's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk determined under paragraphs (a) or (b) multiplied by 12.5; and
(2) The Enterprise's adjusted total assets multiplied by 0.0015 multiplied by 12.5.
(d) After January 1, 2022, and until the compliance date for this section under § 1240.4, the Enterprise's risk weighted amount for operational risk will equal the Enterprise's adjusted total assets multiplied by 0.0015 multiplied by 12.5.

# Subpart F—Risk-weighted Assets—Market Risk
§ 1240.201
Purpose, applicability, and reservation of authority.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart F establishes risk-based capital requirements for spread risk and provides methods for the Enterprises to calculate their measure for spread risk.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to each Enterprise.
(c)
Reservation of authority.
Subject to applicable provisions of the Safety and Soundness Act:
(1) FHFA may require an Enterprise to hold an amount of capital greater than otherwise required under this subpart if FHFA determines that the Enterprise's capital requirement for spread risk as calculated under this subpart is not commensurate with the spread risk of the Enterprise's covered positions.
(2) If FHFA determines that the risk-based capital requirement calculated under this subpart by the Enterprise for one or more covered positions or portfolios of covered positions is not commensurate with the risks associated with those positions or portfolios, FHFA may require the Enterprise to assign a different risk-based capital requirement to the positions or portfolios that more accurately reflects the risk of the positions or portfolios.
(3) In addition to calculating risk-based capital requirements for specific positions or portfolios under this subpart, the Enterprise must also calculate risk-based capital requirements for covered positions under subpart D or subpart E of this part, as appropriate.
(4) Nothing in this subpart limits the authority of FHFA under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law.
§ 1240.202
Definitions.
(a) Terms set forth in § 1240.2 and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned in § 1240.2.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms are defined as follows:
Backtesting
means the comparison of an Enterprise's internal estimates with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development. For purposes of this subpart, backtesting is one form of out-of-sample testing.
Covered position
means, any asset that has more than
de minimis
spread risk (other than any intangible asset, such as any servicing asset), including:
(i) Any NPL, RPL, reverse mortgage loan, or other mortgage exposure that, in any case, does not secure an MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise;
(ii) Any MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise, MBS guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, reverse mortgage security, PLS, commercial MBS, CRT exposure, or other securitization exposure, regardless of whether the position is held by the Enterprise for the purpose of short-term resale or with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-
term price movements, or to lock in arbitrage profits; and
(iii) Any other trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet).
1
1
Securities subject to repurchase and lending agreements are included as if they are still owned by the Enterprise.
Market risk
means the risk of loss on a position that could result from movements in market prices, including spread risk.
Private label security (PLS)
means any MBS that is collateralized by a pool or pools of single-family mortgage exposures and that is not guaranteed by an Enterprise or by Ginnie Mae.
Reverse mortgage
means a mortgage loan secured by a residential property in which a homeowner relinquishes equity in their home in exchange for regular payments.
Reverse mortgage security
means a security collateralized by reverse mortgages.
Spread risk
means the risk of loss on a position that could result from a change in the bid or offer price of such position relative to a risk free or funding benchmark, including when due to a change in perceptions of performance or liquidity of the position.
§ 1240.203
Requirements for managing market risk.
(a)
Management of covered positions
—(1)
Active management.
An Enterprise must have clearly defined policies and procedures for actively managing all covered positions. At a minimum, these policies and procedures must require:
(i) Marking covered positions to market or to model on a daily basis;
(ii) Daily assessment of the Enterprise's ability to hedge position and portfolio risks, and of the extent of market liquidity;
(iii) Establishment and daily monitoring of limits on covered positions by a risk control unit independent of the business unit;
(iv) Routine monitoring by senior management of information described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section;
(v) At least annual reassessment of established limits on positions by senior management; and
(vi) At least annual assessments by qualified personnel of the quality of market inputs to the valuation process, the soundness of key assumptions, the reliability of parameter estimation in pricing models, and the stability and accuracy of model calibration under alternative market scenarios.
(2)
Valuation of covered positions.
The Enterprise must have a process for prudent valuation of its covered positions that includes policies and procedures on the valuation of positions, marking positions to market or to model, independent price verification, and valuation adjustments or reserves. The valuation process must consider, as appropriate, unearned credit spreads, close-out costs, early termination costs, investing and funding costs, liquidity, and model risk.
(b)
Requirements for internal models.
(1) A risk control unit independent of the business unit must approve any internal model to calculate its risk-based capital requirement under this subpart.
(2) An Enterprise must meet all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis. The Enterprise must promptly notify FHFA when:
(i) The Enterprise plans to extend the use of a model to an additional business line or product type;
(ii) The Enterprise makes any change to an internal model that would result in a material change in the Enterprise's risk-weighted asset amount for a portfolio of covered positions; or
(iii) The Enterprise makes any material change to its modeling assumptions.
(3) FHFA may determine an appropriate capital requirement for the covered positions to which a model would apply, if FHFA determines that the model no longer complies with this subpart or fails to reflect accurately the risks of the Enterprise's covered positions.
(4) The Enterprise must periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its internal models in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance those models as appropriate to ensure
that they continue to meet the Enterprise's standards for model approval and employ risk measurement methodologies that are most appropriate for the Enterprise's covered positions.
(5) The Enterprise must incorporate its internal models into its risk management process and integrate the internal models used for calculating its market risk measure into its daily risk management process.
(6) The level of sophistication of an Enterprise's internal models must be commensurate with the complexity and amount of its covered positions. An Enterprise's internal models may use any of the generally accepted approaches, including variance-covariance models, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations, to measure market risk.
(7) The Enterprise's internal models must properly measure all the material risks in the covered positions to which they are applied.
(8) The Enterprise's internal models must conservatively assess the risks arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited price transparency under realistic market scenarios.
(9) The Enterprise must have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal models to ensure continued applicability and relevance.
(c)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(1) The Enterprise must have a risk control unit that reports directly to senior management and is independent from the business units.
(2) The Enterprise must validate its internal models initially and on an ongoing basis. The Enterprise's validation process must be independent of the internal models' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:
(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the internal models;
(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and the comparison of the Enterprise's model outputs with relevant internal and external data sources or estimation techniques; and
(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting.
(3) The Enterprise must stress test the market risk of its covered positions at a frequency appropriate to each portfolio, and in no case less frequently than quarterly. The stress tests must take into account concentration risk (including concentrations in single issuers, industries, sectors, or markets), illiquidity under stressed market conditions, and risks arising from the Enterprise's trading activities that may not be adequately captured in its internal models.
(4) The Enterprise must have an internal audit function independent of business-line management that at least annually assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the Enterprise's market risk measurement systems, including the activities of the business units and independent risk control unit, compliance with policies and procedures, and calculation of the Enterprise's measures for spread risk under this subpart. At least annually, the internal audit function must report its findings to the Enterprise's board of directors (or a committee thereof).
(d)
Internal assessment of capital adequacy.
The Enterprise must have a rigorous process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its market risk.
(e)
Documentation.
The Enterprise must adequately document all material aspects of its internal models, management and valuation of covered positions, control, oversight, validation and review processes and results, and internal assessment of capital adequacy.
§ 1240.204
Measure for spread risk.
(a)
General requirement
—(1)
In general.
An Enterprise must calculate its standardized measure for spread risk by following the steps described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. An Enterprise also must calculate an advanced measure for spread risk by following the steps in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Measure for spread risk.
An Enterprise must calculate the standardized measure for spread risk, which equals
the sum of the spread risk capital requirements of all covered positions using one or more of its internal models except as contemplated by paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section. An Enterprise also must calculate the advanced measure for spread risk, which equals the sum of the spread risk capital requirements of all covered positions calculated using one or more of its internal models.
(b)
Single point approach
—(1)
General.
For purposes of the standardized measure for spread risk, the spread risk capital requirement for a covered position that is an RPL, an NPL, a reverse mortgage loan, or a reverse mortgage security is the amount equal to:
(i) The market value of the covered position; multiplied by
(ii) The applicable single point shock assumption for the covered position under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)
Applicable single point shock assumption.
The applicable single point shock assumption is:
(i) 0.0475 for an RPL or an NPL;
(ii) 0.0160 for a reverse mortgage loan; and
(iii) 0.0410 for a reverse mortgage security.
(c)
Spread duration approach
—(1)
General.
For purposes of the standardized measure for spread risk, the spread risk capital requirement for a covered position that is a multifamily mortgage exposure, a PLS, or an MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise or Ginnie Mae and secured by multifamily mortgage exposures is the amount equal to:
(i) The market value of the covered position; multiplied by
(ii) The spread duration of the covered position determined by the Enterprise using one or more of its internal models; multiplied by
(iii) The applicable spread shock assumption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Applicable spread shock assumption.
The applicable spread shock is:
(i) 0.0015 for a multifamily mortgage exposure;
(ii) 0.0265 for a PLS; and
(iii) 0.0100 for an MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise or by Ginnie Mae and secured by multifamily mortgage exposures (other than IO securities guaranteed by an Enterprise or Ginnie Mae).
§ 1240.205
Market risk disclosures.
(a)
Scope.
An Enterprise must make timely public disclosures each calendar quarter, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements timely means no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its corresponding Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K at the end of a fiscal year or its corresponding Quarterly Report on SEC Form 10-Q at the end of other calendar quarters. If a significant change occurs, such that the most recent reporting amounts are no longer reflective of the Enterprise's capital adequacy and risk profile, then a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact must be provided as soon as practicable thereafter. Qualitative disclosures that typically do not change each quarter may be disclosed annually, provided any material changes are disclosed as soon as practicable thereafter, and no later than the end of the next calendar quarter, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements a material change means a change such that the omission or misstatement of which could change or influence the assessment or decision of a user relying on that information for the purpose of making investment decisions. If an Enterprise believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public certain information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the Enterprise is not required to disclose these specific items but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed.
(b)
Location.
The Enterprise's management may provide all of the disclosures required by this section in one place on the Enterprise's public website or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the Enterprise publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
(c)
Disclosure policy.
The Enterprise must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses the Enterprise's approach for
determining its market risk disclosures. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. The board of directors and senior management must ensure that appropriate verification of the disclosures takes place and that effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. The Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Enterprise must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart, and the board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over the disclosures required by this section.
(d)
Quantitative disclosures.
(1) For each material portfolio of covered positions, the Enterprise must provide timely public disclosures of the following information at least quarterly:
(i) Exposure amounts for each product type included in covered positions as described in § 1240.202; and
(ii) Risk-weighted assets for each product type included in covered positions as described in § 1240.202.
(2) In addition, the Enterprise must disclose publicly the aggregate amount of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet securitization positions by exposure type at least quarterly.
(e)
Qualitative disclosures.
For each material portfolio of covered positions as identified using the definitions in § 1240.202, the Enterprise must provide timely public disclosures of the following information at least annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter, or more frequently in the event of material changes for each portfolio:
(1) The composition of material portfolios of covered positions;
(2) The Enterprise's valuation policies, procedures, and methodologies for covered positions including, for securitization positions, the methods and key assumptions used for valuing such positions, any significant changes since the last reporting period, and the impact of such change;
(3) The characteristics of the internal models used for purposes of this subpart;
(4) A description of the approaches used for validating and evaluating the accuracy of internal models and modeling processes for purposes of this subpart;
(5) For each market risk category (that is, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk), a description of the stress tests applied to the positions subject to the factor;
(6) The results of the comparison of the Enterprise's internal estimates for purposes of this subpart with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development; and
(7) A description of the Enterprise's processes for monitoring changes in the market risk of securitization positions, including how those processes differ for resecuritization positions.
[87 FR 33434, June 2, 2022]

# Subpart G—Stability Capital Buffer
§ 1240.400
Stability capital buffer.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Mortgage assets
means, with respect to an Enterprise, the dollar amount equal to the sum of:
(i) The unpaid principal balance of its single-family mortgage exposures, including any single-family loans that secure MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise;
(ii) The unpaid principal balance of its multifamily mortgage exposures, including any multifamily mortgage exposures that secure MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise;
(iii) The carrying value of its MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise, MBS guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, PLS, and other securitization exposures (other than its retained CRT exposures); and
(iv) The exposure amount of any other mortgage assets.
(2)
Residential mortgage debt outstanding
means the dollar amount of mortgage debt outstanding secured by one- to four-family residences or multifamily residences that are located in the United States (and excluding any mortgage debt outstanding secured by commercial or farm properties).
(b)
Amount.
An Enterprise must calculate its stability capital buffer under
this section on an annual basis by December 31 of each year. The stability capital buffer of an Enterprise is equal to:
(1) The ratio of:
(i) The mortgage assets of the Enterprise as of December 31 of the previous calendar year; to
(ii) The residential mortgage debt outstanding as of December 31 of the previous calendar year, as published by FHFA;
(2) Minus 0.05;
(3) Multiplied by 5;
(4) Divided by 100; and
(5) Multiplied by the adjusted total assets of the Enterprise, as of December 31 of the previous calendar year.
(c)
Effective date of an adjusted stability capital buffer
—(1)
Increase in stability capital buffer.
An increase in the stability capital buffer of an Enterprise under this section will take effect (
i.e.,
be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) in § 1240.11) on January 1 of the year that is one full calendar year after the increased stability capital buffer was calculated, provided that where a stability capital buffer under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is calculated to be a decrease in the stability capital buffer from the previously calculated scheduled increase applicable on the same January 1, the decreased stability capital buffer under paragraph (c)(2) shall take effect.
(2)
Decrease in stability capital buffer.
A decrease in the stability capital buffer of an Enterprise will take effect (
i.e.,
be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) in § 1240.11) on January 1 of the year immediately following the calendar year in which the decreased stability capital buffer was calculated.
[85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]

# Subpart H—Capital Planning and Stress Capital Buffer Determination

# Source:
87 FR 33617, June 3, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1240.500
Capital planning and stress capital buffer determination.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes capital planning and prior notice and approval requirements for capital distributions by the Enterprises. This section also establishes FHFA's process for determining the stress capital buffer applicable to the Enterprises.
(b)
Scope and reservation of authority
—(1)
Applicability.
This section applies to the Enterprises.
(2)
Reservation of authority.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of FHFA to issue or enforce a capital directive or take any other supervisory or enforcement action, including an action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions or violations of law.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Adjusted total assets
has the same meaning as under subpart A of this part.
Advanced approaches
means the risk-weighted assets calculation methodologies as set forth in subpart E of this part.
Capital action
means any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution, and any similar action that FHFA determines could impact an Enterprise's consolidated capital.
Capital distribution
means a redemption or repurchase of any debt or equity capital instrument, a payment of common or preferred stock dividends, a payment that may be temporarily or permanently suspended by the issuer on any instrument that is eligible for inclusion in the numerator of any minimum regulatory capital ratio, and any similar transaction that FHFA determines to be in substance a distribution of capital.
Capital plan
means a written presentation of an Enterprise's capital planning strategies and capital adequacy process that includes the mandatory elements set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
Capital plan cycle
means the period beginning on January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of that year.
Capital policy
means an Enterprise's written principles and guidelines used for capital planning, capital issuance, capital usage and distributions, including internal capital goals; the quantitative or qualitative guidelines for capital distributions; the strategies for addressing potential capital shortfalls; and the internal governance procedures around capital policy principles and guidelines.
Common equity tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as under subpart C of this part.
Effective capital distribution limitations
means any limitations on capital distributions established by FHFA by order or regulation, provided that, for any limitations based on risk-weighted assets, such limitations must be calculated using the standardized approach, as set forth in subpart D of this part.
Final planned capital distributions
means the planned capital distributions included in a capital plan that include the adjustments made pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, if any.
Internal baseline scenario
means a scenario that reflects the Enterprise's expectation of the economic and financial outlook, including expectations related to the Enterprise's capital adequacy and financial condition.
Internal stress scenario
means a scenario designed by an Enterprise that stresses the specific vulnerabilities of the Enterprise's risk profile and operations, including those related to the Enterprise's capital adequacy and financial condition.
Planning horizon
means the period of at least nine consecutive quarters for the FHFA scenarios and at least five years for the Internal scenarios, beginning with the quarter preceding the quarter in which the Enterprise submits its capital plan, over which the relevant projections extend, unless otherwise directed by FHFA.
Regulatory capital ratio
means a capital ratio for which FHFA has established minimum requirements for the Enterprise by regulation or order, including, as applicable, the Enterprise's regulatory capital ratios calculated under subpart B of this part; except that the Enterprise shall not use the advanced approaches to calculate its regulatory capital ratios.
Severely adverse scenario
has the same meaning as under 12 CFR part 1238.
Stability capital buffer
has the same meaning as under subpart G of this part.
Stress capital buffer
means the amount calculated under paragraph (e) of this section.
Supervisory stress test
means a stress test conducted by FHFA using a severely adverse scenario and the assumptions contained in 12 CFR part 1238.
(d)
Capital planning requirements and procedures
—(1)
Annual capital planning.
(i) An Enterprise must develop and maintain a capital plan.
(ii) An Enterprise must submit its complete capital plan to FHFA by May 20 of each calendar year, or such later date as directed by FHFA.
(iii) The Enterprise's board of directors or a designated committee thereof must at least annually and prior to submission of the capital plan under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section:
(A) Review the robustness of the Enterprise's process for assessing capital adequacy;
(B) Ensure that any deficiencies in the Enterprise's process for assessing capital adequacy are appropriately remedied; and
(C) Approve the Enterprise's capital plan.
(2)
Mandatory elements of capital plan.
A capital plan must contain at least the following elements:
(i) An assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over the planning horizon that reflects the Enterprise's size, complexity, risk profile, and scope of operations, assuming both expected and stressful conditions, including:
(A) Estimates of projected revenues, expenses, losses, reserves, and pro forma capital levels, including regulatory capital ratios, and any additional capital measures deemed relevant by the Enterprise, over the planning horizon under a range of scenarios, including the Internal baseline scenario and at least one Internal
stress scenario, as well as any additional scenarios that FHFA may provide the Enterprise after giving notice to the Enterprise;
(B) A discussion of the results of any stress test required by law or regulation, and an explanation of how the capital plan takes these results into account; and
(C) A description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon. Planned capital actions must be consistent with any effective capital distribution limitations, except as may be adjusted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. In determining whether an Enterprise's planned capital distributions are consistent with effective capital distribution limitations, an Enterprise must assume that:
(
1
) Any countercyclical capital buffer amount currently applicable to the Enterprise remains at the same level, except that the Enterprise must reflect any increases or decreases in the countercyclical capital buffer amount that have been announced by FHFA at the times indicated by FHFA's announcement for when such increases or decreases will take effect; and
(
2
) Any stability capital buffer currently applicable to the Enterprise when the capital plan is submitted remains at the same level, except that the Enterprise must reflect any increase in its stability capital buffer pursuant to § 1240.400(c)(1), beginning in the fifth quarter of the planning horizon.
(ii) A detailed description of the Enterprise's process for assessing capital adequacy, including:
(A) A discussion of how the Enterprise will, under expected and stressful conditions, maintain capital commensurate with its risks, and maintain capital above the regulatory capital ratios;
(B) A discussion of how the Enterprise will, under expected and stressful conditions, maintain sufficient capital to continue its operations by maintaining ready access to funding, meeting its obligations to creditors and other counterparties, and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary;
(iii) The Enterprise's capital policy; and
(iv) A discussion of any expected changes to the Enterprise's business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the Enterprise's capital adequacy or liquidity.
(3)
Data collection.
Upon the request of FHFA, the Enterprise shall provide FHFA with information regarding:
(i) The Enterprise's financial condition, including its capital;
(ii) The Enterprise's structure;
(iii) Amount and risk characteristics of the Enterprise's on- and off-balance sheet exposures, including exposures within the Enterprise's trading account, other trading-related exposures (such as counterparty-credit risk exposures) or other items sensitive to changes in market factors, including, as appropriate, information about the sensitivity of positions to changes in market rates and prices;
(iv) The Enterprise's relevant policies and procedures, including risk management policies and procedures;
(v) The Enterprise's liquidity profile and management;
(vi) The loss, revenue, and expense estimation models used by the Enterprise for stress scenario analysis, including supporting documentation regarding each model's development and validation; and
(vii) Any other relevant qualitative or quantitative information requested by FHFA to facilitate review of the Enterprise's capital plan under this section.
(4)
Resubmission of a capital plan.
(i) An Enterprise must update and resubmit its capital plan to FHFA within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of one of the following events:
(A) The Enterprise determines there has been or will be a material change in the Enterprise's risk profile, financial condition, or corporate structure since the Enterprise last submitted the capital plan to FHFA; or
(B) FHFA instructs the Enterprise in writing to revise and resubmit its capital plan, as necessary to monitor risks to capital adequacy, for reasons including, but not limited to:
(
1
)
The
capital plan is incomplete or the capital plan, or the Enterprise's internal capital adequacy process, contains material weaknesses;
(
2
) There has been, or will likely be, a material change in the Enterprise's risk profile (including a material change in its business strategy or any risk exposure), financial condition, or corporate structure;
(
3
) The Internal stress scenario(s) are not appropriate for the Enterprise's business model and portfolios, or changes in financial markets or the macro-economic outlook that could have a material impact on an Enterprise's risk profile and financial condition require the use of updated scenarios; or
(ii) FHFA may extend the 30-day period in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section for up to an additional 60 calendar days, or such longer period as FHFA determines appropriate.
(iii) Any updated capital plan must satisfy all the requirements of this section; however, an Enterprise may continue to rely on information submitted as part of a previously submitted capital plan to the extent that the information remains accurate and appropriate.
(5)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
The confidentiality of information submitted to FHFA under this section and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) and FHFA's rule in 12 CFR part 1214—Availability of Non-Public Information.
(e)
Calculation of the stress capital buffer
—(1)
General.
FHFA will determine the stress capital buffer that applies under § 1240.11 pursuant to this paragraph (e). FHFA will calculate the Enterprise's stress capital buffer requirement annually.
(2)
Stress capital buffer calculation.
An Enterprise's stress capital buffer isequal to the Enterprise's adjusted total assets, as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, multiplied by the greater of:
(i) The following calculation:
(A) The ratio of an Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, as of the final quarter of the previous capital plan cycle, unless otherwise determined by FHFA; minus
(B) The lowest projected ratio of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, in any quarter of the planning horizon under a supervisory stress test; plus
(C) The ratio of:
(
1
) The sum of the Enterprise's planned common stock dividends (expressed as a dollar amount) for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon; to
(
2
) The adjusted total assets of the Enterprise in the quarter in which the Enterprise had its lowest projected ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, in any quarter of the planning horizon under a supervisory stress test; and(ii) 0.75 percent.
(3)
Recalculation of stress capital buffer.
If an Enterprise resubmits its capital plan pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, FHFA may recalculate the Enterprise's stress capital buffer. FHFA will provide notice of whether the Enterprise's stress capital buffer will be recalculated within 75 calendar days after the date on which the capital plan is resubmitted, unless FHFA provides notice to the Enterprise that it is extending the time period.
(f)
Review of capital plans by FHFA.
FHFA will consider the following factors in reviewing an Enterprise's capital plan:
(1) The comprehensiveness of the capital plan, including the extent to which the analysis underlying the capital plan captures and addresses potential risks stemming from activities across the Enterprise and the Enterprise's capital policy;
(2) The reasonableness of the Enterprise's capital plan, the assumptions and analysis underlying the capital plan, and the robustness of its capital adequacy process;
(3) Relevant supervisory information about the Enterprise and its subsidiaries;
(4) The Enterprise's regulatory and financial reports, as well as supporting data that would allow for an analysis of the Enterprise's loss, revenue, and reserve projections;
(5) The results of any stress tests conducted by the Enterprise or FHFA; and
(6) Other information requested or required by FHFA, as well as any other information relevant, or related, to the Enterprise's capital adequacy.
(g)
FHFA notice of stress capital buffer; final planned capital distributions
—(1)
Notice.
FHFA will provide an Enterprise with notice of its stress capital buffer and an explanation of the results of the supervisory stress test. Unless otherwise determined by FHFA, notice will be provided by August 15 of the calendar year in which the capital plan was submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section or within 90 calendar days of receiving notice that FHFA will recalculate the Enterprise's stress capital buffer pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2)
Response to notice
—(i)
Request for reconsideration of stress capital buffer.
An Enterprise may request reconsideration of a stress capital buffer provided under paragraph (g)(1) of this section. To request reconsideration of a stress capital buffer, an Enterprise must submit to FHFA a request pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii)
Adjustments to planned capital distributions.
Within two business days of receipt of notice of a stress capital buffer under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable, an Enterprise must:
(A) Determine whether the planned capital distributions for the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon under the Internal baseline scenario would be consistent with effective capital distribution limitations assuming the stress capital buffer provided by FHFA under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable, in place of any stress capital buffer in effect; and
(
1
) If the planned capital distributions for the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon under the Internal baseline scenario would not be consistent with effective capital distribution limitations assuming the stress capital buffer provided by FHFA under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable, in place of any stress capital buffer in effect, the Enterprise must adjust its planned capital distributions such that its planned capital distributions would be consistent with effective capital distribution limitations assuming the stress capital buffer provided by FHFA under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable, in place of any stress capital buffer in effect; or
(
2
) If the planned capital distributions for the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon under the Internal baseline scenario would be consistent with effective capital distribution limitations assuming the stress capital buffer provided by FHFA under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable, in place of any stress capital buffer in effect, the Enterprise may adjust its planned capital distributions. An Enterprise may not adjust its planned capital distributions to be inconsistent with the effective capital distribution limitations assuming the stress capital buffer provided by FHFA under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section, as applicable; and
(B) Notify FHFA of any adjustments made to planned capital distributions for the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon under the Internal baseline scenario.
(3)
Final planned capital distributions.
FHFA will consider the planned capital distributions, including any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, to be the Enterprise's final planned capital distributions on the later of:
(i) The expiration of the time for requesting reconsideration under paragraph (i) of this section; and
(ii) The expiration of the time for adjusting planned capital distributions pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Effective date of final stress capital buffer.
(i) FHFA will provide an Enterprise with its final stress capital buffer and confirmation of the Enterprise's final planned capital distributions by August 31 of the calendar year that a capital plan was submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, unless otherwise determined by FHFA. A stress capital buffer will not be considered final so as to be agency action subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 704 during the pendency of a request for reconsideration made pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section or before the time for requesting reconsideration has expired.
(ii) Unless otherwise determined by FHFA, an Enterprise's final planned
capital distributions and final stress capital buffer shall:
(A) Be effective on October 1 of the calendar year in which a capital plan was submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(B) Remain in effect until superseded.
(5)
Publication.
With respect to an Enterprise subject to this section, FHFA may disclose publicly any or all of the following:
(i) The stress capital buffer provided to an Enterprise under paragraph (g)(1) or (h)(5) of this section;
(ii) Adjustments made pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section;
(iii) A summary of the results of the supervisory stress test; and
(iv) Other information.
(h)
Administrative remedies; request for reconsideration.
The following requirements and procedures apply to any request under this paragraph (h):
(1)
General.
To request reconsideration of a stress capital buffer, provided under paragraph (g) of this section, an Enterprise must submit a written request for reconsideration.
(2)
Timing of request.
A request for reconsideration of a stress capital buffer, provided under paragraph (g) of this section, must be received within 15 calendar days of receipt of a notice of an Enterprise's stress capital buffer.
(3)
Contents of request.
(i) A request for reconsideration must include a detailed explanation of why reconsideration should be granted (that is, why a stress capital buffer should be reconsidered). With respect to any information that was notpreviously provided to FHFA in the Enterprise's capital plan, the request should include an explanation of why the information should be considered.
(ii) A request for reconsideration may include a request for an informal hearing on the Enterprise's request for reconsideration.
(4)
Hearing.
(i) FHFA may, in its sole discretion, order an informal hearing if FHFA finds that a hearing is appropriate or necessary to resolve disputes regarding material issues of fact.
(ii) An informal hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days of a request, if granted, provided that FHFA may extend this period upon notice to the requesting party.
(5)
Response to request.
Within 30 calendar days of receipt of the Enterprise's request for reconsideration of its stress capital buffer submitted under paragraph (h)(2) of this section or within 30 days of the conclusion of an informal hearing conducted under paragraph (h)(4) of this section, FHFA will notify the Enterprise of its decision to affirm or modify the Enterprise's stress capital buffer, provided that FHFA may extend this period upon notice to the Enterprise.
(6)
Distributions during the pendency of a request for reconsideration.
During the pendency of FHFA's decision under paragraph (h)(5) of this section, the Enterprise may make capital distributions that are consistent with effective distribution limitations, unless prior approval is required under paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(i)
Approval requirements for certain capital actions
—(1)
Circumstances requiring approval
—
resubmission of a capital plan.
Unless it receives prior approval pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section, an Enterprise may not make a capital distribution (excluding any capital distribution arising from the issuance of a capital instrument eligible for inclusion in the numerator of a regulatory capital ratio) if the capital distribution would occur after the occurrence of an event requiring resubmission under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
(2)
Contents of request.
A request for a capital distribution under this section must contain the following information:
(i) The Enterprise's capital plan or a discussion of changes to the Enterprise's capital plan since it was last submitted to FHFA;
(ii) The purpose of the transaction;
(iii) A description of the capital distribution, including for redemptions or repurchases of securities, the gross consideration to be paid and the terms and sources of funding for the transaction, and for dividends, the amount of the dividend(s); and
(iv) Any additional information requested by FHFA (which may include, among other things, an assessment of the Enterprise's capital adequacy
under a severely adverse scenario, a revised capital plan, and supporting data).
(3)
Approval of certain capital distributions.
(i) FHFA will act on a request for prior approval of a capital distribution within 30 calendar days after the receipt of all the information required under paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
(ii) In acting on a request for prior approval of a capital distribution, FHFA will apply the considerations and principles in paragraph (f) of this section, as appropriate. In addition, FHFA may disapprove the transaction if the Enterprise does not provide all of the information required to be submitted under paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
(4)
Disapproval and hearing.
(i) FHFA will notify the Enterprise in writingof the reasons for a decision to disapprove any proposed capital distribution. Within 15 calendar days after receipt of a disapproval by FHFA, the Enterprise may submit a written request for a hearing.
(ii) FHFA may, in its sole discretion, order an informal hearing if FHFA finds that a hearing is appropriate or necessary to resolve disputes regarding material issues of fact. An informal hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days of a request, if granted, provided that FHFA may extend this period upon notice to the requesting party.
(iii) Written notice of the final decision of FHFA shall be given to the Enterprise within 60 calendar days of the conclusion of any informal hearing ordered by FHFA, provided that FHFA may extend this period upon notice to the requesting party.
(iv) While FHFA's decision is pending and until such time as FHFA approves the capital distribution at issue, the Enterprise may not make such capital distribution.
(j)
Post notice requirement.
An Enterprise must notify FHFA within 15 days of making a capital distribution if:
(1) The capital distribution was approved pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section; or
(2) The dollar amount of the capital distribution will exceed the dollar amount of the Enterprise's final planned capital distributions, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the fourth quarter of the planning horizon through the quarter at issue.
§§ 1240.501-1240.502
[Reserved]
Pt. 1242

# PART 1242—RESOLUTION PLANNING
Sec.
1242.1
Purpose; identification as a prudential standard.
1242.2
Definitions.
1242.3
Identification of core business lines.
1242.4
Credible resolution plan required; other notices to FHFA.
1242.5
Informational content of a resolution plan; required and prohibited assumptions.
1242.6
Form of resolution plan; confidentiality.
1242.7
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
1242.8
No limiting effect or private right of action.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511; 12 U.S.C. 4513; 12 U.S.C. 4513b; 12 U.S.C. 4514; 12 U.S.C. 4517; 12 U.S.C. 4526; and 12 U.S.C. 4617.

# Source:
86 FR 23587, May 4, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1242.1
Purpose; identification as a prudential standard.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to require each Enterprise to develop a plan for submission to FHFA that would assist FHFA in planning for the rapid and orderly resolution of an Enterprise using FHFA's receivership authority at 12 U.S.C. 4617, in a manner that:
(1) Minimizes disruption in the national housing finance markets by providing for the continued operation of the core business lines of an Enterprise in receivership by a newly constituted limited-life regulated entity;
(2) Preserves the value of an Enterprise's franchise and assets;
(3) Facilitates the division of assets and liabilities between the limited-life regulated entity and the receivership estate;
(4) Ensures that investors in mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Enterprises and in Enterprise unsecured debt bear losses in accordance with the priority of payments established in the Safety and Soundness Act while minimizing unnecessary losses and costs to these investors; and
(5) Fosters market discipline by making clear that no extraordinary government support will be available to indemnify investors against losses or fund the resolution of an Enterprise.
(b)
Identification as a prudential standard; effect of identification.
This part is a prudential standard pursuant to section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4513b, and is subject to 12 CFR part 1236. In its discretion, FHFA may deem:
(1) The determination of a deficiency in a resolution plan; or
(2) The failure to undertake actions or changes identified by FHFA in the notice provided pursuant to § 1242.7(b)(1), to be a failure to meet a standard for purposes of § 1236.4 of this chapter. In its discretion, FHFA may also deem a revised, resubmitted resolution plan to be a corrective plan for purposes of § 1236.4 of this chapter.
§ 1242.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise indicated, terms used in this part have the meanings that they have in 12 CFR part 1201 and in the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
).
Core business line
means a business line of the Enterprise that plausibly would continue to operate in a limited-life regulated entity, considering the purposes, mission, and authorized activities of the Enterprise as set forth in its authorizing statute and the Safety and Soundness Act.
Core business line
includes associated operations, services, functions, and supports necessary for any identified core business line to be continued, such as servicing, credit enhancement, securitization support, information technology support and operations, and human resources and personnel.
Credible,
with regard to a resolution plan, means a resolution plan that:
(1) Demonstrates consideration of required and prohibited assumptions set forth at § 1242.5(b);
(2) Provides strategic analysis and detailed information as required by § 1242.5(c) through (g) that is well-founded and based on information and data related to the Enterprise that are observable or otherwise verifiable and employ reasonable projections from current and historical conditions within the broader financial markets; and
(3) Plausibly achieves the purposes of § 1242.1(a).
Material change
means an event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on:
(1) The resolvability of the Enterprise;
(2) The Enterprise's resolution strategy; or
(3) How the Enterprise's resolution plan is implemented. Material changes may include the identification of a new core business line or significant increases or decreases in business, operations, funding, or interconnections.
Rapid and orderly resolution
means a process for establishing a limited-life regulated entity as successor to the Enterprise under section 1367 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C 4617), including transferring Enterprise assets and liabilities to the limited-life regulated entity, such that succession by the limited-life regulated entity can be accomplished promptly and in a manner that substantially mitigates the risk that the failure of the Enterprise would have serious adverse effects on national housing finance markets.
§ 1242.3
Identification of core business lines.
(a)
Enterprise preliminary identification; notice to FHFA; timing.
(1) Each Enterprise shall conduct periodic reviews of its business lines to identify core business lines, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Each Enterprise shall establish and implement a process to identify each of its core business lines. The process shall include a methodology for evaluating the Enterprise's participation in activities and markets that may be critical to the stability of the national housing finance markets or carrying out the statutory mission and purpose of the Enterprise. The methodology shall be designed, taking into account the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the Enterprise's operations, to identify and assess:
(i) The markets and activities in which the Enterprise participates or has operations;
(ii) The significance of those markets and activities with respect to the national housing finance markets or the Enterprise's obligation to carry out its statutory mission and purpose; and
(iii) The significance of the Enterprise as a provider or other participant in those markets and activities.
(3) Enterprise identification of any business line as a core business line is preliminary and is subject to review by FHFA. Each Enterprise must provide a notice of its preliminary identification of core business lines to FHFA, including a description of its methodology and the basis for identification of each core business line.
(4) The board of directors of the Enterprise shall approve each notice of preliminary identification of core business lines before submission to FHFA, with such approval noted in board minutes.
(5) Each Enterprise must conduct its initial identification process and submit its initial identification of core business lines to FHFA by the date that is three months after the effective date of the final rule. Thereafter, each Enterprise shall conduct periodic identification processes, determining the timing of each periodic process to ensure that the process for identification, including FHFA review and determination required by paragraph (b) of this section, can be complete in sufficient time for each succeeding required resolution plan to include the information required under § 1242.5 for each core business line. FHFA may also direct an Enterprise as to the timeframe for conducting any subsequent identification process.
(6) Each Enterprise must periodically review its identification process and update it as necessary to ensure its continued effectiveness.
(b)
FHFA identification of core business lines; notice to an Enterprise; timing of inclusion in resolution plan.
(1) Within three months of receiving an Enterprise notice of the preliminary identification of a business line as a core business line, FHFA will provide notice to the Enterprise of its determination of each core business line. FHFA may also identify operations, services, functions, or supports associated with any core business line.
(2) FHFA may identify any business line of the Enterprise as a core business line, considering factors set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or any other factor FHFA deems appropriate, following review of an Enterprise notice of preliminary identification or at any other time, on written notice to an Enterprise.
(3) If FHFA identifies a core business line under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an Enterprise is not required to include that core business line in a resolution plan if that plan is due within six months after the Enterprise receives notice of identification from FHFA.
(c)
Reconsideration of business line identification
—(1)
Reconsideration initiated by an Enterprise.
(i) An Enterprise may request that FHFA reconsider the identification under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, by submitting a written request to FHFA that includes a clear and complete statement of all arguments and all material information that the Enterprise believes is relevant to reconsideration as a core business line.
(ii) The board of directors of the Enterprise shall approve each request for reconsideration of identification before submission to FHFA, with such approval noted in board minutes.
(iii) FHFA will respond to an Enterprise request for reconsideration within three months after the date on which a complete request is received.
(2)
Reconsideration initiated by FHFA.
FHFA may reconsider the identification of any business line, including reconsideration of any operation, service, function, or support, at any time and in its discretion, on written notice to an Enterprise.
(3)
FHFA notice of reconsideration.
FHFA will provide a notice of reconsideration to the affected Enterprise, stating the results of the reconsideration. If FHFA determines to change an identification, such notice may also provide an effective date or other delaying or triggering condition for the change to become effective.
(4)
Effect of reconsideration.
For purposes of Enterprise resolution plans,
identification as a core business line continues in effect until any notice of reconsideration removing such identification becomes effective.
§ 1242.4
Credible resolution plan required; other notices to FHFA.
(a)
Credible resolution plan required; frequency and timing of plan submission
—(1)
Credible resolution plan required; resolution plan submission dates.
Each Enterprise is required to submit a credible resolution plan to FHFA in accordance with frequency and timing requirements established by FHFA. Each Enterprise is required to submit its initial resolution plan 18 months after the date on which it is required to submit its initial notice preliminarily identifying core business lines to FHFA in accordance with § 1242.3(a)(2). Thereafter, each Enterprise shall submit a resolution plan to FHFA not later than two years following the submission date for the prior resolution plan, unless otherwise notified by FHFA in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Altering submission dates.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, FHFA may determine that an Enterprise shall submit its resolution plan on a date different from any date provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, which may be before or after any date so established. FHFA shall provide an Enterprise with written notice of a determination under this paragraph (a)(2) no later than 12 months before the date by which the Enterprise is required to submit the resolution plan.
(3)
Interim updates.
FHFA may require that an Enterprise submit an update to a resolution plan submitted under this part, within a reasonable time, as determined by FHFA. FHFA shall notify the Enterprise of its requirement to submit an update under this paragraph (a)(3) in writing and shall specify the portions or aspects of the resolution plan the Enterprise shall update. Submission of an interim update does not affect the date for submission of a resolution plan, unless otherwise notified by FHFA in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Notice of extraordinary events; inclusion in next resolution plan.
Each Enterprise shall provide FHFA with a notice no later than 45 days after any material change, merger, reorganization, sale or divestiture of a business unit or material assets, or similar transaction, or any fundamental change to the Enterprise's resolution strategy. Such notice must describe such extraordinary event and explain how it may plausibly affect the resolution of the Enterprise. The Enterprise shall address any such extraordinary event with respect to which it has provided notice pursuant to this paragraph (b) in the next resolution plan submitted by the Enterprise, provided that plan is required to be submitted more than 90 days after submission of the notice of an extraordinary event to FHFA.
(c)
Board of directors' approval of resolution plan.
The board of directors of the Enterprise shall approve each resolution plan (including any revised resolution plan) before submission to FHFA, with such approval noted in board minutes.
(d)
Point of contact.
Each Enterprise shall identify an Enterprise senior management official and position responsible for serving as a point of contact regarding the resolution plan.
(e)
Incorporation of previously submitted resolution plan information by reference.
Any resolution plan submitted by an Enterprise may incorporate by reference information from a prior resolution plan submitted to FHFA, provided that:
(1) The resolution plan seeking to incorporate information by reference clearly indicates:
(i) The information the Enterprise is incorporating by reference; and
(ii) Which of the Enterprise's previously submitted resolution plan(s) originally contained the information the Enterprise is incorporating by reference, including the specific location of that information in the previously submitted resolution plan; and
(2) The information the Enterprise is incorporating by reference remains accurate in all respects that are material to the Enterprise's resolution plan.
(f)
Extensions of time.
Upon its own initiative or a written request by an Enterprise, FHFA may extend any
time period under this part. Each extension request by an Enterprise shall be supported by a written statement describing the basis and justification for the request.
§ 1242.5
Informational content of a resolution plan; required and prohibited assumptions.
(a)
In general.
An Enterprise resolution plan shall reflect required and prohibited assumptions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and include information specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, as well as analysis, in detail, to facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the Enterprise by FHFA as receiver in a manner that minimizes the risk that resolution of an Enterprise would have serious adverse effects on the national housing finance markets, and to the extent possible, the amount of any losses to be realized by the Enterprise's creditors. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, FHFA may adjust or tailor the scope or form of information specified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, as FHFA determines appropriate considering the significance of such information to FHFA when reviewing resolution plans, the appropriate level of detail of information, and reduction of burden on an Enterprise or FHFA.
(b)
Required and prohibited assumptions when developing a resolution plan.
In developing a resolution plan, each Enterprise shall:
(1) Take into account that receivership of the Enterprise may occur under the severely adverse economic conditions provided to the Enterprise by FHFA in conjunction with any stress testing required or in another scenario provided by FHFA;
(2) Not assume the provision or continuation of extraordinary support by the United States to the Enterprise to prevent either its becoming in danger of default or in default (including, in particular, support obtained or negotiated on behalf of the Enterprise by FHFA in its capacity as supervisor, conservator, or receiver of the Enterprise, including the Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements entered into by FHFA and the U.S. Department of the Treasury on September 7, 2008 and any amendments thereto); and
(3) Reflect statutory provisions that obligations and securities of the Enterprise issued pursuant to its authorizing statute, together with interest thereon, are not guaranteed by the United States and do not constitute a debt or obligation of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof other than the Enterprise.
(c)
Executive summary.
Each resolution plan of an Enterprise shall include an executive summary describing:
(1) Summary of the key elements of the Enterprise's strategic analysis;
(2) A description of each material change experienced by the Enterprise since submission of the Enterprise's prior resolution plan (or affirmation that no such change has occurred);
(3) Changes to the Enterprise's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from FHFA; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(4) Any actions taken by the Enterprise since submitting its prior resolution plan to improve the effectiveness of the resolution plan or remediate or otherwise mitigate any material weaknesses or impediments to a rapid and orderly resolution.
(d)
Strategic analysis.
Each resolution plan shall include a strategic analysis describing the Enterprise's plan for facilitating its rapid and orderly resolution by FHFA. Such analysis shall:
(1) Include detailed descriptions of—
(i) Key assumptions and supporting analysis underlying the resolution plan, including any assumptions made concerning the economic or financial conditions that would be present at the time resolution would occur;
(ii) Actions, or ranges of actions, which if taken by the Enterprise could facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution and those actions that the Enterprise intends to take;
(iii) The corporate governance framework that supports determination of the specific actions to be taken to facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution as the Enterprise is becoming in danger
of default (including identifying the senior management officials responsible for making those determinations and taking those actions);
(iv) Funding, liquidity, and capital needs of, and resources and loss absorbing capacity available to, the Enterprise, which shall be mapped to its core business lines, in the ordinary course of business and in the event the Enterprise becomes in danger of default or in default;
(v) Considering the Enterprise's core business lines, a strategy for identifying assets and liabilities of the Enterprise to be transferred to a limited-life regulated entity; and for transferring operations of, and funding for, the Enterprise to a limited-life regulated entity, which shall be mapped to core business lines;
(vi) A strategy for preventing the failure or discontinuation of each core business line and its associated operations, services, functions, or supports as the core business line is transferred to a limited-life regulated entity, and actions that, in the Enterprise's view, FHFA could take to prevent or mitigate any adverse effects of such failure or discontinuation on the national housing finance markets;
(vii) A strategy for mitigating the effect on the Enterprise of another Enterprise becoming in danger of default or in default, on the continuation of each of the Enterprise's core business lines and its associated operations, services, functions, or supports as any assets or operations of the other Enterprise are transferred to the Enterprise;
(viii) The extent to which claims against the Enterprise by creditors and counterparties would be satisfied in accordance with § 1237.9 of this chapter and the manner and source of satisfaction of those claims consistent with the continuation of the Enterprise's core business lines by the limited-life regulated entity; and
(ix) A strategy for transferring or unwinding qualified financial contracts, as defined at 12 U.S.C. 4617(d)(8)(D)(i), in a manner consistent with 12 U.S.C. 4617(d)(8) through (11);
(2) Identify the time period(s) the Enterprise expects would be needed to successfully execute each action identified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section to facilitate rapid and orderly resolution, and any impediments to such actions;
(3) Identify and describe—
(i) Any potential material weaknesses or impediments to rapid and orderly resolution as conceived in the Enterprise's plan;
(ii) Any actions or steps the Enterprise has taken or proposes to take, or which other market participants could take, to remediate or otherwise mitigate the weaknesses or impediments identified by the Enterprise; and
(iii) A timeline for the remedial or other mitigating action that the Enterprise proposes to take; and
(4) Provide a detailed description of the processes the Enterprise employs for—
(i) Determining the current market values and marketability of the core business lines and material asset holdings of the Enterprise;
(ii) Assessing the feasibility of the Enterprise's plans (including timeframes) for executing any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions contemplated in the Enterprise's resolution plan; and
(iii) Assessing the impact of any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions on the value, funding, and operations of the Enterprise and its core business lines.
(e)
Corporate governance relating to resolution planning.
Each resolution plan shall:
(1) Include a detailed description of—
(i) How resolution planning is integrated into the corporate governance structure and processes of the Enterprise;
(ii) The process for identifying core business lines, including a description of the Enterprise's methodology considering the requirements of § 1242.3(a);
(iii) Enterprise policies, procedures, and internal controls governing preparation and approval of the resolution plan; and
(iv) The nature, extent, and frequency of reporting to Enterprise senior executive officers and the board of directors regarding the development, maintenance, and implementation of the Enterprise's resolution plan;
(2) Provide the identity and position of the Enterprise senior management official primarily responsible for overseeing the development, maintenance, implementation, and submission of the Enterprise's resolution plan and for the Enterprise's compliance with this part;
(3) Describe the nature, extent, and results of any contingency planning or similar exercise conducted by the Enterprise since the date of the Enterprise's most recently submitted resolution plan to assess the viability of or improve the resolution plan of the Enterprise; and
(4) Identify and describe the relevant risk measures used by the Enterprise to report credit risk exposures both internally to its senior management and board of directors, as well as any relevant risk measures reported externally to investors or to FHFA.
(f)
Organizational structure, interconnections, and related information.
Each resolution plan shall:
(1) Provide a detailed description of the Enterprise's organizational structure, including—
(i) A list of all affiliates and trusts within the Enterprise's organization that identifies for each affiliate and trust (legal entity), the following information (provided that, where such information would be identical across multiple legal entities, it may be presented in relation to a group of identified legal entities):
(A) The percentage of voting and nonvoting equity of each legal entity listed; and
(B) The location, jurisdiction of incorporation, licensing, and key management associated with each material legal entity identified;
(ii) A mapping of the Enterprise's operations, services, functions, and supports associated with each of its core business lines, identifying—
(A) The entity, including any third-party providers, responsible for conducting each associated operation or service that supports the functioning of each core business line as well as the Enterprise's material asset holdings; and
(B) Liabilities related to such operations, services, and core business lines;
(2) Provide an unconsolidated balance sheet for the Enterprise and a consolidating schedule for all securitization trusts consolidated by the Enterprise;
(3) Provide a schedule showing all assets and liabilities of unconsolidated Enterprise securitization trusts;
(4) Include a description of the material components of the liabilities of the Enterprise and each identified core business line that, at a minimum, separately identifies types and amounts of the short-term and long-term liabilities, secured and unsecured liabilities, and subordinated liabilities;
(5) Identify and describe the processes used by the Enterprise to—
(i) Determine to whom the Enterprise has pledged collateral;
(ii) Identify the person or entity that holds such collateral; and
(iii) Identify the jurisdiction in which the collateral is located, and, if different, the jurisdiction in which the security interest in the collateral is enforceable against the Enterprise;
(6) Describe any material off-balance sheet exposures (including guarantees and contractual obligations) of the Enterprise, including a mapping to each of its core business lines;
(7) Describe the practices of the Enterprise and its core business lines related to the booking of trading and derivatives activities;
(8) Identify material hedges of the Enterprise and its core business lines related to trading and derivative activities, including a mapping to legal entity;
(9) Describe the hedging strategies of the Enterprise;
(10) Describe the process undertaken by the Enterprise to establish exposure limits;
(11) Identify the third-party providers with which the Enterprise has significant business connections (including third parties performing or providing operations, services, functions, or supports associated with each core business line) and describe the business connections, dependencies and relationships with such third party;
(12) Report on the counterparty credit risk exposure to—
(i) The 20 largest single-family mortgage sellers and the 20 largest single-
family mortgage servicers to the Enterprise (where “largest” is determined as of the end of the quarter preceding submission of a resolution plan, and the Enterprise includes an entity that is among the largest in both categories in each separate report category); and
(ii) All multifamily sellers and servicers to the Enterprise, based on purchasing volume during the preceding year.
(13) Report on insurance in force, risk in force, and exposure and potential future exposure related to all providers of loan-level mortgage insurance;
(14) Analyze whether the failure of a third-party provider to an Enterprise would likely have an adverse impact on an Enterprise or result in the Enterprise becoming in danger of default or in default, the availability of alternative providers, and the ability of the Enterprise to change providers when necessary; and
(15) Identify each trading, payment, clearing, or settlement system of which the Enterprise, directly or indirectly, is a member and on which the Enterprise conducts a material number or value amount of trades or transactions, and map membership in each such system to the Enterprise and its core business lines.
(g)
Management information systems.
(1) Each resolution plan shall include:
(i) A detailed inventory and description of the key management information systems and applications, including systems and applications for risk management, automated underwriting, valuation, accounting, and financial and regulatory reporting, used by the Enterprise, and systems and applications containing records used to manage all qualified financial contracts. The description of each system or application provided shall identify the legal owner or licensor, the use or function of the system or application, service level agreements related thereto, any software and system licenses, and any intellectual property associated therewith;
(ii) A mapping of the key management information systems and applications to core business lines of the Enterprise that use or rely on such systems and applications;
(iii) An identification of the scope, content, and frequency of the key internal reports that senior management of the Enterprise and core business lines use to monitor the financial health, risks, and operation of the Enterprise and core business lines;
(iv) A description of the process for FHFA to access the management information systems and applications identified in this paragraph (g); and
(v) A description and analysis of—
(A) The capabilities of the Enterprise's management information systems to collect, maintain, and report, in a timely manner to management of the Enterprise and to FHFA, the information and data underlying the resolution plan; and
(B) Any gaps or weaknesses in such capabilities, and a description of the actions the Enterprise intends to take to promptly address such gaps, or weaknesses, and the timeframe for implementing such actions.
(h)
Identification of point of contact.
The Enterprise senior management official responsible for serving as a point of contact regarding the resolution plan shall be identified in the resolution plan.
§ 1242.6
Form of resolution plan; confidentiality.
(a)
Form of resolution plan
—(1)
Generally.
Each resolution plan of an Enterprise shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. Each Enterprise shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section.
(2)
Content of public section.
The public section of a resolution plan shall clearly reflect required and prohibited assumptions set forth at § 1242.5(b) and consist of an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of the Enterprise and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of the Enterprise:
(i) A description of each core business line, including associated operations and services;
(ii) Consolidated or segment financial information regarding assets, liabilities, capital and major funding sources;
(iii) A description of derivative activities, hedging activities, and credit risk transfer instruments;
(iv) A list of memberships in material payment, clearing and settlement systems;
(v) The identities of the principal officers;
(vi) A description of the corporate governance structure and processes related to resolution planning;
(vii) A description of material management information systems; and
(viii) A description, at a high level, of strategies to facilitate resolution, covering such items as the range of potential purchasers of the Enterprise's core business lines and other significant assets, as well as measures that, if taken by the Enterprise, could minimize the risk that its resolution would have serious adverse effects on the national housing finance markets and minimize the amount of potential loss to the Enterprise's investors and creditors.
(b)
Confidential treatment of resolution plan.
(1) The confidentiality of each resolution plan and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), 12 CFR part 1202 (FHFA's regulation implementing the Freedom of Information Act), and 12 CFR part 1214 (FHFA's regulation on the availability of non-public information).
(2) An Enterprise submitting a resolution plan or related materials pursuant to this part that desires confidential treatment of the information under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), 12 CFR part 1202 (Freedom of Information Act), and 12 CFR part 1214 (availability of non-public information) may file a request for confidential treatment in accordance with those rules.
(3) To the extent permitted by law, information comprising the confidential section of a resolution plan will be treated as confidential.
(4) To the extent permitted by law, the submission of any nonpublic data or information under this part shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject. The submission of any nonpublic data or information under this part shall be subject to the examination privilege.
§ 1242.7
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
(a)
FHFA acceptance of resolution plan; review for completeness.
(1) After receipt of a resolution plan, FHFA will either acknowledge acceptance of the plan for review or return the resolution plan if FHFA determines that it is incomplete or that substantial additional information is required to facilitate review of the resolution plan.
(2) If FHFA determines that a resolution plan is incomplete or that substantial additional information is necessary to facilitate review of the resolution plan:
(i) FHFA shall provide notice to the Enterprise in writing of the area(s) in which the resolution plan is incomplete or with respect to which additional information is required; and
(ii) Within 30 days after receiving such notice (or such other time period as FHFA may establish in the notice), the Enterprise shall resubmit a complete resolution plan or such additional information as requested to facilitate review of the resolution plan.
(b)
FHFA review of complete plan; determination regarding deficient resolution plan.
(1) Following review of a complete resolution plan, FHFA will send a notification to each Enterprise that:
(i) Identifies any deficiencies or shortcomings in the Enterprise's resolution plan (or confirms that no deficiencies or shortcomings were identified);
(ii) Identifies any planned actions or changes set forth by the Enterprise that FHFA agrees could facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the Enterprise; and
(iii) Provides any other feedback on the resolution plan (including feedback on timing of actions or changes to be undertaken by the Enterprise). FHFA will send the notification no later than 12 months after accepting a complete plan, unless FHFA determines in its discretion that extenuating circumstances exist that require delay.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a “deficiency” is an aspect of an Enterprise's resolution plan that FHFA determines presents a weakness that, individually or in conjunction with other aspects, could undermine the feasibility of the Enterprise's resolution plan. A “shortcoming” is a weakness or gap that raises questions about the feasibility of an Enterprise's resolution plan, but does not rise to the level of a deficiency. If a shortcoming is not satisfactorily explained or addressed before or in the submission of the Enterprise's next resolution plan, it may be found to be a deficiency in the Enterprise's next resolution plan. FHFA may identify an aspect of an Enterprise's resolution plan as a deficiency even if such aspect was not identified as a shortcoming in an earlier resolution plan submission.
(c)
Resubmission of a resolution plan.
Within 90 days of receiving a notice of deficiency, or such shorter or longer period as FHFA may establish by written notice to the Enterprise, an Enterprise shall submit a revised resolution plan to FHFA that addresses all deficiencies identified by FHFA, and that discusses in detail:
(1) Revisions to the plan made by the Enterprise to address the identified deficiencies;
(2) Any changes to the Enterprise's business operations and corporate structure that the Enterprise proposes to undertake to address a deficiency (including a timeline for completing such changes); and
(3) Why the Enterprise believes that the revised resolution plan is feasible and would facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution by FHFA as receiver.
§ 1242.8
No limiting effect or private right of action.
(a)
No limiting effect on resolution proceedings.
A resolution plan submitted pursuant to this part shall not have any binding effect on FHFA when appointed as conservator or receiver under 12 U.S.C. 4617.
(b)
No private right of action.
Nothing in this part creates or is intended to create a private right of action based on a resolution plan prepared or submitted under this part or based on any action taken by FHFA with respect to any resolution plan submitted under this part.
Pt. 1248

# PART 1248—UNIFORM MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
Sec.
1248.1
Definitions.
1248.2
Purpose.
1248.3
General alignment.
1248.4
Enterprise consultation.
1248.5
Misalignment.
1248.6
Covered programs, policies, and practices.
1248.7
Remedial actions.
1248.8
De minimis
exception.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1451 note; 1716; 4511; and 4526.

# Source:
84 FR 7799, Mar. 5, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1248.1
Definitions.
The definitions below are used to define terms for purposes of this part:
Align or alignment
means to cause to be sufficiently similar, or have sufficient similarity, as to produce a conditional prepayment rate (CPR) divergence of less than 2 percentage points in the three-month CPR for a cohort, and less than 5 percentage points in the three-month CPR for a the fastest paying quartile of a cohort (or less than the prevailing percentage thresholds for alignment set by FHFA, per § 1248.5(c)).
Cohort
means all TBA-eligible securities with the same coupon, maturity, and loan-origination year where the combined unpaid principal balance of such securities issued by both Enterprises exceeds $10 billion.
Conditional Prepayment Rate or CPR,
also known as the constant prepayment rate, means the rate at which investors receive outstanding principal in advance of scheduled principal payments. This includes receipts of principal that result from borrower prepayments and for any other reason. The CPR is expressed as a compound annual rate.
Covered Programs, Policies, or Practices
means management decisions or actions that have reasonably foreseeable effects on cash flows to TBA-eligible MBS investors (
e.g.,
effects that result
from prepayment rates and the circumstances under which mortgage loans are removed from MBS). These generally include management decisions or actions about: Single-family guarantee fees; loan level price adjustments and delivery fee portions of single-family guarantee fees; the spread between the note rate on the mortgage and the pass-through coupon on the TBA-eligible MBS; eligibility standards for sellers and servicers; financial and operational standards for private mortgage insurers; requirements related to the servicing of distressed loans that collateralize TBA-eligible securities; streamlined modification and refinance programs; removal of mortgage loans from securities; servicer compensation; proposals that could materially change the credit risk profile of the single-family mortgages securitized by an Enterprise; selling guide requirements for documenting creditworthiness, ability to repay, and adherence to collateral standards; refinances of HARP-eligible loans; contract provisions under which certain sellers commit to sell to an Enterprise a minimum share of the mortgage loans they originate that are eligible for sale to the Enterprises; loan modification offerings; loss mitigation practices during disasters; alternatives to repurchase for representation and warranty violations; and other actions.
Fastest paying quartile of a cohort
means the quartile of a cohort that has the fastest prepayment speeds as measured by the three-month CPR. The quartiles shall be determined by ranking outstanding TBA-eligible securities with the same coupon, maturity, and loan-origination year by the three-month CPR, excluding
specified pools,
and dividing each cohort into four parts such that the total unpaid principal balance of the pools included in each part is equal.
Material misalignment
means divergence of at least 3 percentage points in the three-month CPR for a cohort or at least 8 percentage points in the three-month CPR for a fastest paying quartile of a cohort, or a prolonged misalignment (as determined by FHFA), or divergence greater than either of the corresponding prevailing percentage thresholds set by FHFA, per § 1248.5(c).
Misalign or misalignment
means to diverge by, or a divergence of, 2 percentage points or more, in the three-month CPR for a cohort or 5 percentage points or more, in the three-month CPR for a fastest paying quartile of a cohort (or more than either of the corresponding prevailing percentage thresholds set by FHFA, per § 1248.5(c)).
Mortgage-backed security or MBS
means securities collateralized by a pool or pools of single-family mortgages.
Specified pools
means pools of mortgages backing TBA-eligible MBS that have a maximum loan size of $200,000, a minimum loan-to-value ratio at the time of loan origination of 80 percent, or a maximum FICO score of 700, or where all mortgages in the pool finance investor-owned properties or properties in the states of New York or Texas or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Supers
means single-class re-securitizations of UMBS.
Three-month conditional prepayment rate (CPR3)
means the annualized measure of prepayments for a three month interval calculated as follows:
CPR3
t
= 1 − ((1 − SMM
t-2
) *(1 − SMM
t-1
) * (1 − SMM
t
))
4
,
where t indicates the month andSMM is the single month mortality rate, which equals(PMT
t
− I
t
− P
t
)/(UPB
t
− P
t
),where PMT
t
is the actual payments received in the month,I
t
is the scheduled payments of interest, P
t
is the scheduled payments of principal, and UPB
t
is the beginning unpaid principal balance.
To-Be-Announced Eligible Mortgage-Backed Security (TBA-Eligible MBS)
means Enterprise MBS (including Freddie Mac Participation Certificates, Giants, MBS, UMBS, and Supers; and Fannie Mae MBS, Megas, UMBS, and Supers) that meet criteria such that the market considers them sufficiently fungible to be forward traded in the TBA market.
Uniform Mortgage Backed Security or UMBS
means a single-class MBS backedby fixed-rate mortgage loans on one-to-four unit (single-family) properties issued byeither Enterprise which has the same characteristics (such as payment delay, poolingprefixes, and minimum pool submission amounts)
regardless of which Enterprise is the issuer.
§ 1248.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Enhance liquidity in the MBS marketplace, and to that end, enable adoption of the UMBS, by achieving sufficient similarity of cash flows on cohorts of TBA-eligible MBS such that investors will accept delivery of UMBS from either issuer in settlement of trades on the TBA market.
(b) Provide transparency and durability into the process for creating alignment.
§ 1248.3
General alignment.
Each Enterprise's covered programs, policies, and practices must align with the other Enterprise's covered programs, policies, and practices.
(a) When aligning covered programs, policies, and practices, the Enterprises must consider:
(1) The effect of the alignment on TBA-eligible securities' pricing and particularly on the prepayment speeds of mortgages underlying TBA-eligible MBS.
(2) Options that provide the greatest benefit for investors, lenders, and mortgage borrowers.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1248.4
Enterprise consultation.
When and in the manner instructed by FHFA, the Enterprises shall consult with each other on any issues, including changes to covered programs, policies, and practices that potentially or actually cause cash flows to TBA-eligible MBS investors to misalign. The Enterprises shall report to FHFA on the results of any such consultation.
§ 1248.5
Misalignment.
(a) The Enterprises must report any misalignment to FHFA.
(b) The Enterprises must submit, in a timely manner, a written report to FHFA on any material misalignment describing, at a minimum, the likely cause of material misalignment and the Enterprises' plan to address the material misalignment.
(c) FHFA will
temporarily
adjust the percentages in the definitions of align, misalignment, and material misalignment, if FHFA determines that market conditions dictate that an adjustment is appropriate.
(1) In adjusting the percentages, FHFA will consider:
(i) The prevailing level and volatility of interest rates;
(ii) The level of credit risk embedded in the Enterprises' TBA-eligible MBS; and
(iii) Such other factors as FHFA may, in consultation with the Enterprises, determine to be appropriate to promote market confidence in the alignment of cash flows to TBA-eligible MBS investors and to foster the efficiency and liquidity of the secondary mortgage market.
(2) FHFA will publicly announce any temporary adjustment to the percentages in the definition of align, misalignment, and material misalignment in a timely manner.
(3) If adjusted percentages remain in effect for six months or more, FHFA will amend this part's definitions by
Federal Register
Notice, with opportunity for public comment.
(4) Temporarily adjusted percentages will remain in effect until six months after the date on which FHFA announced the temporary adjustment unless within six months of that date—
(i) FHFA announces a reversion to the previously prevailing percentages; or
(ii) FHFA initiates the notice and comment process, in which case the temporary percentages will remain in effect until the conclusion of that process.
(d) FHFA will
temporarily
adjust the definitions of cohort, fastest paying quartile of a cohort, and specified pools, if FHFA determines that changes in market practices or conditions dictate that an adjustment is appropriate.
(1) In adjusting those definitions, FHFA will consider:
(i) Changes in prevailing market practices related to the identification of specified pools;
(ii) The prevailing interest rates environment;
(iii) Observed relationships between pool characteristics and prepayment behavior of the Enterprises' TBA-eligible MBS; and
(iv) Such other factors as FHFA may, in consultation with the Enterprises, determine to be appropriate to promote market confidence in the alignment of cash flows to TBA-eligible MBS investors and to foster the efficiency and liquidity of the secondary mortgage market.
(2) FHFA will publicly announce any temporary adjustment to the definitions of cohort and specified pools in a timely manner.
(3) If adjusted definitions remain in effect for six months or more, FHFA will amend this part's definitions by
Federal Register
Notice, with opportunity for public comment.
(4) Temporarily adjusted definitions will remain in place until six months after the date on which FHFA announced the temporary adjustment unless within six months of that date—
(i) FHFA announces a reversion to the previously prevailing definitions; or
(ii) FHFA initiates the notice and comment process, in which case the temporary definitions will remain in effect until the conclusion of that process.
§ 1248.6
Covered programs, policies, and practices.
(a)
Enterprise Change Management Processes.
Each Enterprise must establish and maintain an Enterprise-wide governance process to ensure that any proposed changes to covered programs, policies, and practices that may cause misalignment are identified, reviewed, escalated, and submitted, in writing, to FHFA for review and approval in a timely manner, including proposed changes to covered programs, policies, and practices that were previously aligned at the direction of FHFA as conservator.
(1) Submissions to FHFA must include projections for prepayment rates and for removals of delinquent loans under a range of interest rate environments and assumptions concerning borrower defaults.
(2) Submissions to FHFA must include an analysis of the impact on borrowers and impact on the fastest paying quartile of each cohort.
(3) Submissions to FHFA must include an analysis of identified risks and may include potential mitigating actions.
(b)
Enterprise Monitoring.
Any changes to covered programs, policies, and practices that an Enterprise reasonably should identify as having been a likely cause of an unanticipated divergence between Enterprises in the three-month CPR of the same cohort shall be reported promptly to FHFA in writing.
(c)
FHFA Monitoring.
FHFA will monitor changes to covered programs, policies, and practices for effects on cash flows to TBA-eligible MBS investors.
§ 1248.7
Remedial actions.
(a) Based on its review of reports submitted by the Enterprises and reports issued by independent parties, if FHFA determines that there is misalignment, or the risk of misalignment, FHFA may:
(1) Require an Enterprise to undertake additional analysis, monitoring, or reporting to further the purposes of this part.
(2) Require an Enterprise to change covered programs, policies, and practices that FHFA determines conflict with the purposes of this part.
(b) To address material misalignment, FHFA may require additional and expedient Enterprise actions based on:
(1) Consultation with the Enterprises regarding the cause of the material misalignment;
(2) Review of Enterprise compliance with previously agreed upon or FHFA-required actions; and
(3) Review of the effectiveness of such actions to determine whether they are achieving the purpose of this part.
(c) Depending on the severity and cause of any material misalignment, FHFA, in its discretion, may:
(1) Require an Enterprise to terminate a program, policy, or practice; or
(2) Require the competing Enterprise to implement a comparable program, policy, or practice.
(d) When requiring an Enterprise to terminate a program, policy, or practice, or implement a comparable program, policy, or practice, FHFA will consider:
(1) The effect on TBA-eligible securities pricing and particularly on the
prepayment speeds of mortgages underlying TBA-eligible MBS; and
(2) The costs borne by and the benefits likely to accrue to investors, lenders, and mortgage borrowers.
§ 1248.8
De minimis
exception.
FHFA may exclude from the requirements of this part covered programs, policies, or practices of an Enterprise as long as those covered programs, policies, or practices do not affect more than $5 billion in unpaid principal balance of that Enterprises' TBA-eligible MBS.
Pt. 1249

# PART 1249—BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURES
Sec.
1249.10
Definitions.
1249.11
Maintenance of Enterprise Securities.
1249.12
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and Enterprises; rights of any person against United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and Enterprises; law governing other interests.
1249.13
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
1249.14
Obligations of Enterprises; no adverse claims.
1249.15
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
1249.16
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Securities for conversion to definitive form.
1249.17
Waiver of regulations.
1249.18
Liability of Enterprises and Federal Reserve Banks.
1249.19
Additional provisions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4501, 4502, 4511, 4513, 4526.

# Source:
75 FR 55928, Sept. 14, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1249.10
Definitions.
(a)
General.
Unless the context requires otherwise, terms used in this part that are not defined in this part, have the meanings as set forth in 31 CFR 357.2 and in 12 CFR 1282.1. Definitions and terms used in 31 CFR part 357 should read as though modified to effectuate their application to the Enterprises.
(b)
Other terms.
As used in this part, the term:
Book-entry Enterprise Security
means an Enterprise Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System. Book-entry Enterprise Security also means the separate interest and principal components of a Book-entry Enterprise Security if such security has been designated by the Enterprise as eligible for division into such components and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks.
Book-entry System
means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for the Enterprises, on which Book-entry Enterprise Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
Definitive Enterprise Security
means an Enterprise Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.
Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Security
means a Book-entry Enterprise Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Securities Documentation is eligible to be converted from book-entry form into definitive form.
Enterprise Security
means any security or obligation of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac issued under its respective Charter Act in the form of a Definitive Enterprise Security or a Book-entry Enterprise Security.
Entitlement Holder
means a Person or an Enterprise to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Enterprise Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Enterprise Securities) and transfers Book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Enterprise Securities).
Participant
means a Person or Enterprise that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person,
as used in this part, means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not
mean or include the United States, an Enterprise, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Revised Article 8
has the same meaning as in 31 CFR 357.2.
Securities Documentation
means the applicable statement of terms, trust indenture, securities agreement or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Enterprise Security.
Security
means any mortgage participation certificate, note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, collateral-trust certificate, transferable share, certificate of deposit for a security, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security”.
Transfer message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry Enterprise Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
§ 1249.11
Maintenance of Enterprise Securities.
An Enterprise Security may be maintained in the form of a Definitive Enterprise Security or a Book-entry Enterprise Security. A Book-entry Enterprise Security shall be maintained in the Book-entry System.
§ 1249.12
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and Enterprises; rights of any person against United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and Enterprises; law governing other interests.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following rights and obligations are governed solely by the book-entry regulations contained in this part, the Securities Documentation, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars (but not including any choice of law provisions in the Securities Documentation to the extent such provisions conflict with the Book-entry regulations contained in this part):
(1) The rights and obligations of an Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Enterprise Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Enterprise Securities; and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against an Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Enterprise Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Enterprise Securities;
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 1249.13(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 1249.13(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8, then the law specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.
(d) To the extent not otherwise inconsistent with this part, and notwithstanding any provision in the Securities Documentation setting forth a choice of law, the provisions set forth in 31 CFR 357.11 regarding law governing other interests apply and shall be read as though modified to effectuate the application of 31 CFR 357.11 to the Enterprises.
§ 1249.13
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry Enterprise Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Federal Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) An Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, an Enterprise, or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 1249.12(b) or (d). The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
§ 1249.14
Obligations of Enterprises; no adverse claims.
(a) Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 1249.13(c)(1), for the purposes of this part, each Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry Enterprise Security has been credited as the person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to such Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. Neither the Federal Reserve Banks nor an Enterprise shall be liable to a Person asserting or having an adverse claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Enterprise Security in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Enterprise Security by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(b) The obligation of the Enterprise to make payments (including payments of interest and principal) with respect to Book-entry Enterprise Securities is discharged at the time payment in the appropriate amount is made as follows:
(1) Interest or other payments on Book-entry Enterprise Securities is either credited by a Federal Reserve
Bank to a Funds Account maintained at such Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise paid as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry Enterprise Securities are redeemed in accordance with their terms by a Federal Reserve Bank withdrawing the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained and by either crediting the amount of the redemption proceeds, including both redemption proceeds, where applicable, to a Funds Account at such Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise paying such redemption proceeds as directed by the Participant. No action by the Participant ordinarily is required in connection with the redemption of a Book-entry Enterprise Security.
§ 1249.15
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as fiscal agent of the Enterprises to perform the following functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry Enterprise Securities offered and sold by an Enterprise to which this part applies, in accordance with the Securities Documentation, Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars, this part, and any procedures established by the Director consistent with these authorities:
(1) To service and maintain Book-entry Enterprise Securities in accounts established for such purposes;
(2) To make payments with respect to such securities, as directed by the Enterprise;
(3) To effect transfer of Book-entry Enterprise Securities between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants;
(4) To effect conversions between Book-entry Enterprise Securities and Definitive Enterprise Securities with respect to those securities as to which conversion rights are available pursuant to the applicable Securities Documentation; and
(5) To perform such other duties as fiscal agent as may be requested by the Enterprise.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars not inconsistent with this part, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry Enterprise Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the Book-entry System under this part.
§ 1249.16
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Securities for conversion to definitive form.
(a) Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Securities may be withdrawn from the Book-entry System by requesting delivery of like Definitive Enterprise Securities.
(b) A Federal Reserve Bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions to withdraw Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Securities from book-entry in the Book-entry System, convert such securities into Definitive Enterprise Securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interests in such Enterprise Securities.
(c) All requests for withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Enterprise Securities must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
(d) Enterprise Securities which are to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in either registered or bearer form, to the extent permitted by the applicable Securities Documentation.
§ 1249.17
Waiver of regulations.
The Director reserves the right, in the Director's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of this part in any case or class of cases for the convenience of an Enterprise, the United States, or in order to relieve any person(s) of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not adversely affect any substantial existing rights, and the Director is satisfied that such action will not subject an Enterprise or the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
§ 1249.18
Liability of Enterprises and Federal Reserve Banks.
An Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. An Enterprise and the Federal Reserve Banks shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a
Transfer Message, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
§ 1249.19
Additional provisions.
(a)
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under this part, an Enterprise may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in the judgment of the Enterprise be necessary for the protection of the interests of the Enterprise.
(b)
Notice of attachment for Enterprise Securities in Book-entry System.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. These regulations do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.
Pt. 1250

# PART 1250—FLOOD INSURANCE
Sec.
1250.1
Purpose.
1250.2
Procedural requirements.
1250.3
Civil money penalties.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4521(a)(4) and 4526; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 42 U.S.C. 4001 note; 42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)(3), (4), (5), (8), (9), and (10).

# Source:
74 FR 2349, Jan. 15, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1250.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the responsibilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (collectively, Enterprises) under the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (FDPA), as amended (42 U.S.C. 4002
et seq.
) and the procedures to be used by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) in any proceeding to assess civil money penalties against an Enterprise.
§ 1250.2
Procedural requirements.
(a)
Procedures.
An Enterprise shall implement procedures reasonably designed to ensure for any loan that is secured by improved real estate or a mobile home located in an area that has been identified, at the time of the origination of the loan or at any time during the term of the loan, by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency as an area having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance is available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
), as amended and purchased by the Enterprise, the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the loan is covered for the term of the loan by flood insurance in an amount at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or the maximum limit of coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) Paragraph (a) of this section shall apply only with respect to any loan made, increased, extended, or renewed after September 22, 1995.
(2) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to any loan having an original outstanding balance of $5,000 or less and a repayment term of one year or less.
§ 1250.3
Civil money penalties.
(a)
In general.
If an Enterprise is determined by the Director of FHFA, or his or her designee, to have a pattern or practice of purchasing loans in violation of the procedures established pursuant to § 1250.2, the Director of FHFA, or his or her designee, may assess civil money penalties against such Enterprise in such amount or amounts as deemed to be appropriate under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Notice and hearing.
A civil money penalty under this section may be assessed only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record has been provided to the Enterprise.
(c)
Amount.
The maximum civil money penalty amount is $669 for each violation that occurs before January 15, 2024, with total penalties not to exceed $192,996. For violations that occur on or after January 15, 2024, the civil money penalty under this section may not exceed $691 for each violation, with
total penalties assessed under this section against an Enterprise during any calendar year not to exceed $199,251.
(d)
Deposit of penalties.
Any penalties under this section shall be paid into the National Flood Mitigation Fund in accordance with section 1367 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104d.), as amended.
(e)
Additional penalties.
Any penalty under this section shall be in addition to, and shall not preclude, any civil remedy, or criminal penalty otherwise available.
(f)
Statute of limitations.
No civil money penalty may be imposed under this section after the expiration of the four-year period beginning on the date of the occurrence of the violation for which the penalty is authorized under this section.
[74 FR 2349, Jan. 15, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 8642, Feb. 22, 2016; 81 FR 43031, July 1, 2016; 83 FR 43968, Aug. 29, 2018; 84 FR 9704, Mar. 18, 2019; 85 FR 4905, Jan. 28, 2020; 86 FR 7496, Jan. 29, 2021; 87 FR 1662, Jan. 12, 2022; 87 FR 14770, Mar. 16, 2022; 87 FR 80025, Dec. 29, 2022; 89 FR 3333, Jan. 18, 2024]
Pt. 1251

# PART 1251—CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE HOUSING TRUST AND CAPITAL MAGNET FUNDS
Sec.
1251.1
Purpose.
1251.2
Definitions.
1251.3
Prohibition on pass-through of cost of allocation; enforcement.
1251.4
Submission of information.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1452(c), 1718(b), 4511(b), 4513(a), 4514(a), 4526(a), and 4567.

# Source:
79 FR 74597, Dec. 16, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1251.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement a prohibition against an Enterprise redirecting the cost of any allocation to the Housing Trust Fund or the Capital Magnet Fund to originators of mortgages purchased or securitized by an Enterprise.
§ 1251.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to the terms used in and related specifically to this part. Definitions of other terms may be found in 12 CFR part 1201, General Definitions Applying to All Federal Housing Finance Agency Regulations:
Capital Magnet Fund
means that Fund established at section 1339(a) of the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4569(a).
Housing Trust Fund
means that Fund established by section 1338(a) of the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4568(a).
§ 1251.3
Prohibition on pass-through of cost of allocation; enforcement.
(a)
In general.
No Enterprise shall re-direct or pass through the cost of any allocation to the Housing Trust Fund or the Capital Magnet Fund required pursuant to section 1337(a) of the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4567(a), through increased charges or fees, or decreased premiums, or in any other manner, to the originators of mortgages purchased or securitized by the Enterprise.
(b)
Enforcement.
Compliance by each Enterprise with the foregoing prohibition shall be enforced under subpart 3 of part B of the Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4581-89.
§ 1251.4
Submission of information.
The Director may issue guidance, orders, or notices on compliance with section 1337 and this part by the Enterprises, which may include information submissions by the Enterprises.
Pt. 1252

# PART 1252—PORTFOLIO HOLDINGS
Sec.
1252.1
Enterprise portfolio holdings criteria.
1252.2
Effective duration.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4624.

# Source:
74 FR 5618, Jan. 30, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1252.1
Enterprise portfolio holding criteria.
The Enterprises are required to comply with the portfolio holdings criteria set forth in their respective Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements with the Department of the Treasury, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 1252.2
Effective duration.
This part shall be in effect for each Enterprise so long as—
(a) This part has not been superseded through amendment, and
(b) The Enterprise remains subject to the terms and obligations of the respective Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement.
Pt. 1253

# PART 1253—PRIOR APPROVAL FOR ENTERPRISE PRODUCTS
Sec.
1253.1
Purpose and authority.
1253.2
Definitions.
1253.3
New activity description and exclusions.
1253.4
New product determination.
1253.5
Notice of new activity.
1253.6
Request for prior approval of a new product; public notice; standards for approval.
1253.7
Temporary approval of a new product.
1253.8
Substantially similar activities.
1253.9
New activity and new product submission requirements.
1253.10
Public disclosure.
1253.11
Preservation of authority.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511; 12 U.S.C. 4513; 12 U.S.C. 4526; 12 U.S.C. 4541.

# Source:
88 FR 79229, Dec. 27, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1253.1
Purpose and authority.
The purpose of this part is to establish policies and procedures implementing the prior approval authority for Enterprise products, in accordance with section 1321 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4541), as amended (Safety and Soundness Act).
§ 1253.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Activity
means a business line, business practice, offering, or service, including a guarantee, a financial instrument, consulting or marketing, that the Enterprise provides to the market either on a standalone basis or as part of a business line, business practice, offering, or service.
Authorizing statute
means the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, as applicable.
Credit risk
is the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed terms. Credit risk includes the decline in measured quality of a credit exposure that might result in increased capital costs, provisioning expenses, or a reduction in economic return.
Days
means calendar days.
Market risk
means the risk that the market value, or estimated fair value if the market value is not available, of an Enterprise's portfolio will decline as a result of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or equity or commodity prices.
New activity
has the meaning provided in § 1253.3.
New product
has the meaning provided in § 1253.4.
Operational risk
means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems, or from external events, including all direct and indirect economic losses related to legal liability. Operational risk includes reputational risk, which is the potential for substantial negative publicity regarding an Enterprise's business practices.
Pilot
means an activity that has a limited term and scope for purposes of evaluating the viability of the activity. A pilot may also be referred to as a testing initiative, test and learn, temporary authorization, or by other names.
§ 1253.3
New activity description and exclusions.
(a) A new activity is any of the following if not engaged in by the Enterprise on or before February 27, 2023:
(1) An activity;
(2) An enhancement, alteration, or modification to an activity that—
(i) Requires a new resource, type of data, policy, modification to an existing policy, process, or infrastructure;
(ii) Expands the scope or increases the level of credit risk, market risk, or operational risk to the Enterprise; or
(iii) Involves a new category of borrower, investor, counterparty, or collateral;
(3) A pilot or a modification to the volume or duration of a pilot, including a modification to a pilot that commenced before February 27, 2023; or
(4) An activity that results from a pilot (including from a pilot that commenced before February 27, 2023) or an enhancement, alteration, or modification (as described by paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section) to an activity that results from a pilot (including from a pilot that commenced before February 27, 2023).
(b) A new activity excludes:
(1) An enhancement, alteration, or modification (as described by paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section) to the technology, operating system, or software to operate the automated loan underwriting system of an Enterprise that was in existence as of July 30, 2008.
(2) An enhancement, alteration, or modification (as described by paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section) to the mortgage terms and conditions or mortgage underwriting criteria relating to the mortgages that are purchased or guaranteed by an Enterprise, provided that such enhancement, alteration, or modification does not alter the underlying transaction so as to include services or financing, other than residential mortgage financing.
(3) Pursuant to the requirements of § 1253.8, any activity undertaken by an Enterprise that is substantially similar to—
(i) The automated loan underwriting system of an Enterprise that was in existence as of July 30, 2008, including or any enhancement, alteration, or modification to the technology, operating system, or software to operate the automated loan underwriting system;
(ii) Any enhancement, alteration, or modification to mortgage terms and conditions or mortgage underwriting criteria relating to the mortgages that are purchased or guaranteed by an Enterprise, provided that such activity does not alter the underlying transaction so as to include services or financing, other than residential mortgage financing; and
(iii) A new product that the Director has approved for either Enterprise under § 1253.6(a) through (f) or § 1253.7 or a new product that is otherwise available to either Enterprise under § 1253.6(h).
(4) Any Enterprise business practice, transaction, or conduct performed solely to facilitate the administration of an Enterprise's internal affairs.
§ 1253.4
New product determination.
(a) A new product is any new activity that the Director determines merits public notice and comment about whether it is in the public interest.
(b) The factors that the Director may consider when determining whether a new product is in the public interest are:
(1) The degree to which the new product might advance any of the purposes of the Enterprise under its authorizing statute;
(2) The degree to which the new product serves underserved markets and housing goals as set forth in sections 1332-1335 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4562-4565);
(3) The degree to which the new product is being or could be supplied by other market participants;
(4) The degree to which the new product promotes competition in the marketplace or, to the contrary, would result in less competition;
(5) The degree to which the new product overcomes natural market barriers or inefficiencies;
(6) The degree to which the new product might raise or mitigate risks to the mortgage finance or financial system;
(7) The degree to which the new product furthers fair housing and fair lending; and
(8) Such other factors as determined appropriate by the Director.
§ 1253.5
Notice of new activity.
(a) Before commencing a new activity, an Enterprise must submit a notice of new activity to FHFA. An Enterprise may request prior consultation with FHFA about whether a notice of new activity is required.
(b) In support of its notice of new activity, the Enterprise shall submit thorough, complete, and specific information as described under § 1253.9(a). FHFA will evaluate the notice of new activity to determine if the submission contains sufficient information to enable the Director to determine whether the new activity is a new product subject to prior approval. Once FHFA
makes the determination that the submission is complete, FHFA will notify the Enterprise that the submission is “received” for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4541(e)(2)(B).
(c) Nothing in this regulation limits or restricts FHFA from reviewing a notice of new activity under any other applicable law, under the Director's authority to review for safety and soundness, or to determine whether the activity complies with the Enterprise's authorizing statute. FHFA may conduct such a review as part of its determination that the notice of new activity submission is complete.
(d) No later than 15 days after FHFA notifies the Enterprise that the submission is received, the Director will make a determination on the notice of new activity and will notify the Enterprise accordingly. If the Director determines that the new activity is a new product, the Enterprise must elect to either submit a request for prior approval of the new product under § 1253.6 or discontinue its plan to offer the new product to the market.
(e) If the Director determines that the new activity is not a new product, or if after the passage of 15 days the Director does not make a determination whether the new activity is a new product, the Enterprise may commence the new activity. The Director may establish terms, conditions, or limitations on the Enterprise's engagement in the new activity as the Director determines to be appropriate and with which the Enterprise must comply in order to engage in the new activity.
(f) If the Director does not make a determination within the 15-day period, the absence of such determination does not limit or restrict the Director's safety and soundness authority or the Director's authority to review the new activity to confirm that the activity is consistent with the Enterprise's authorizing statute.
§ 1253.6
Request for prior approval of a new product; public notice; standards for approval.
(a) An Enterprise must submit a request for prior approval of a new product to FHFA before offering a new product to the market.
(1) An Enterprise may submit a request for prior approval of a new product if the Director determines that a new activity is a new product under § 1253.5(d) or, following consultation with FHFA, if the Director authorizes the Enterprise to submit such a request without first submitting a notice of new activity. An Enterprise must submit a request for prior approval of a new product to FHFA before offering a new product to the market.
(2) In support of its request for prior approval of a new product, the Enterprise shall submit thorough, complete, and specific information as described under § 1253.9(b).
(3) FHFA will evaluate the request to determine if the submission contains sufficient information for FHFA to prepare a public notice such that the public will be able to provide fully informed comments on the new product. Once FHFA makes the determination that the submission is complete, FHFA will notify the Enterprise that the submission is “received” for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4541(c)(2).
(b) Following FHFA's determination that a submission is complete, FHFA will publish a public notice soliciting comments on the new product on FHFA's website and in the
Federal Register
without delay.
(1) The public notice will describe the new product and will include such information from the request for prior approval of a new product as necessary to provide the public with sufficient notice and opportunity to comment on the new product. The public notice will provide instructions for the submission of public comments.
(2) The public will have 30 days from the date that the public notice is published in the
Federal Register
to provide comments on the new product.
(3) The Director will consider all public comments received by the closing date of the comment period.
(c) No later than 30 days after the end of the public comment period, the Director will provide the Enterprise with a written determination on whether it may proceed with the new product. The written determination will specify the grounds for the Director's determination.
(d) The Director may approve the new product if the Director determines that the new product:
(1) In the case of Fannie Mae, is authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2), (3), (4), or (5) or 12 U.S.C. 1719; or
(2) In the case of Freddie Mac, is authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(1), (4), or (5); and
(3) Is in the public interest; and
(4) Is consistent with the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or the mortgage finance system.
(e) The Director may consider the factors provided in § 1253.4(b) when determining whether a new product is in the public interest.
(f) The Director may establish terms, conditions, or limitations on the Enterprise's offering of the new product with which the Enterprise must comply in order to offer the new product.
(g) If the Director disapproves the new product, the Enterprise may not offer the new product.
(h) If the Director does not make a determination within 30 days after the end of the public comment period, the Enterprise may offer the new product. The absence of such a determination within 30 days does not limit or restrict the Director's safety and soundness authority or the Director's authority to review the new product to confirm that the product is consistent with the Enterprise's authorizing statute.
(i) The Director may request any information in addition to that supplied in the completed request for prior approval of a new product if, as a result of public comment or otherwise in the course of considering the request, the Director believes that the information is necessary for the Director's decision. The Director may disapprove a new product if the Director does not receive the information requested from the Enterprise in sufficient time to permit adequate evaluation of the information within the time periods set forth in this section.
§ 1253.7
Temporary approval of a new product.
(a) The Director may approve a new product without first seeking public comment as described in § 1253.6 if:
(1) In addition to the information required by § 1253.9(b), the Enterprise submits a specific request for temporary approval that describes the exigent circumstances that make the delay associated with a 30-day public comment period contrary to the public interest and the Director determines that exigent circumstances exist and that delay associated with first seeking public comment would be contrary to the public interest; or
(2) Notwithstanding the absence of a request by the Enterprise for temporary approval, the Director determines on the Director's own initiative that there are exigent circumstances that make the delay associated with first seeking public comment contrary to the public interest.
(b) The Director may impose terms, conditions, or limitations on the temporary approval to ensure that the new product offering is consistent with the factors in § 1253.6(d).
(c) If the Director grants temporary approval, the Director will notify the Enterprise in writing of the Director's decision and include the period for which it is effective and any terms, conditions or limitations. Upon granting of temporary approval, FHFA will also publish the request for public comment to begin the process for permanent approval in accordance with § 1253.6.
(d) If the Director denies a request for temporary approval, the Director will notify the Enterprise in writing of the Director's decision and will evaluate the new product in accordance with this section.
§ 1253.8
Substantially similar activities.
(a) An Enterprise shall notify FHFA of its intent to commence an activity that is substantially similar to any of the following activities at least 15 days prior to offering the activity:
(1) The automated loan underwriting system of an Enterprise that was in existence as of July 30, 2008, including any enhancement, alteration, or modification to the technology, operating system, or software to operate the automated loan underwriting system;
(2) Any enhancement, alteration, or modification to mortgage terms and
conditions or underwriting criteria relating to mortgages that are purchased or guaranteed by an Enterprise, provided that such activity does not alter the underlying transaction so as to include services or financing, other than residential mortgage financing; or
(3) A new product that the Director has approved for either Enterprise under § 1253.6(a) through (f) or § 1253.7 or a new product that is otherwise available to either Enterprise under § 1253.6(h).
(b) The Director may determine that an activity is substantially similar to an activity described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, if the activity is:
(1) A technology system that applies mortgage terms and conditions or underwriting criteria to residential mortgages that are purchased or guaranteed by an Enterprise; or
(2) An enhancement, alteration, or modification to the technology, operating system, or software to operate a technology system described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) The Director may determine that an activity is substantially similar to an activity described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if the activity:
(1) Requires the same or a similar resource, type of data, policy, process, and infrastructure;
(2) Entails the same or similar levels of credit risk, market risk, and operational risk to the Enterprise; and
(3) Involves the same or a similar category of borrower, investor, counterparty, and collateral.
(d) The notification is not required to be a notice of new activity. The notification shall include the name and a complete and specific description of the activity, as well as an explanation of why the Enterprise believes the activity qualifies as a substantially similar activity under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Public notice and comment is not required in connection with offering substantially similar activities.
(f) If the Director determines an activity is not a substantially similar activity, the Enterprise must submit a notice of new activity under § 1253.5 or a request for prior approval of a new product under § 1253.6 and may not proceed or continue with the activity except pursuant to the requirements in this part.
§ 1253.9
New activity and new product submission requirements.
(a) A notice of new activity must provide the following items of information and appropriate supporting documentation. The corresponding paragraph number should be listed with the relevant information provided:
(1) Provide the name of the new activity and a complete and specific description of the new activity that identifies under which paragraph(s) of § 1253.3(a) the activity is described.
(2) Describe the business rationale, the intended market, the business line, and what products are currently being offered or are proposed to be offered under such business line. Also, include a description of any market research performed relating to the new activity.
(3) State the anticipated commencement date for the new activity. Provide analysis, including assumptions, development expenses, any applicable fees, expectations for the impact of and projections for the quarterly size (for example, in terms of cost, personnel, volume of activity, or risk metrics) of the new activity for at least the first 12 months of deployment, as well as the impact of the new activity on the risk profile of the Enterprise and the key controls for the following risks: credit, market, and operational.
(4) If the new activity is a pilot, include the parameters, such as duration, volume of activity, and performance. If the new activity is the result of a pilot, include an analysis on the effectiveness of the pilot that describes the pilot objectives and success criteria; volume of activity; performance; risk metrics and controls; and the modifications made for a broader offering and rationale.
(5) Provide a fair housing and fair lending self-evaluation of the new activity. The self-evaluation should, at a minimum, include data on the predicted impact of the new activity for protected class categories; a summary of reasonable alternatives considered; if disparities are identified, the business justification for the new activity; and the extent to which the activity furthers fair housing and fair lending.
(b) A request for prior approval of a new product must provide the following items of information with appropriate supporting documentation. The corresponding paragraph number should be listed with the relevant information provided:
(1) Provide the information required for a notice of new activity as identified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Describe the business requirements for the new product including technology requirements. Describe the Enterprise business units involved in conducting the new product, including any affiliation or subsidiary relationships, any third-party relationships, and the roles of each. Describe the reporting lines and planned oversight of the new product.
(3) Provide a legal analysis as to whether the new product is—
(i) In the case of Fannie Mae, authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2), (3), (4), or (5) or 12 U.S.C. 1719; or
(ii) In the case of Freddie Mac, authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(1), (4), or (5).
(4) Provide copies of all notice and application documents, including any application for patents or trademarks, the Enterprise has submitted to other Federal, State or local government regulators relating to the new product.
(5) Describe the impact of the new product on the public interest and provide information to address the factors listed in § 1253.4(b).
(6) Describe how the new product is consistent with the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or the mortgage finance system.
(7) Explain any accounting treatment proposed for the new product.
(c) FHFA may require an Enterprise to submit such further information as the Director deems necessary to make a determination on a notice of new activity or a request for prior approval of a new product, at the time of the original submission or any time thereafter.
(d) An Enterprise shall certify, through an executive officer, that a notice of new activity or a request for prior approval of a new product and any supporting material submitted to FHFA pursuant to this part contain no material misrepresentations or omissions. FHFA may review and verify any information filed in connection with a notice of new activity or request for prior approval of a new product.
§ 1253.10
Public disclosure.
In addition to information disclosed in the public notice on a new product, FHFA will make public information related to the Director's determinations on new activity and new product submissions within a reasonable time period after the end of the calendar year during which either Enterprise filed such a submission. Any disclosure under this paragraph will omit any confidential and proprietary information not previously disclosed as part of a public notice on a new product.
§ 1253.11
Preservation of authority.
The Director's exercise of the Director's authority pursuant to the prior approval authority for products under 12 U.S.C. 4541, and this regulation, in no way restricts:
(a) The safety and soundness authority of the Director over all new and existing products or activities; or
(b) The authority of the Director to review all new and existing products or activities to determine that such products or activities are consistent with the authorizing statute of an Enterprise.
Pt.1254

# PART 1254—VALIDATION AND APPROVAL OF CREDIT SCORE MODELS
Sec.
1254.1
Purpose and scope.
1254.2
Definitions.
1254.3
Computation of time.
1254.4
Requirements for use of a credit score.
1254.5
Solicitation of applications.
1254.6
Submission and initial review of applications.
1254.7
Credit Score Assessment.
1254.8
Enterprise Business Assessment.
1254.9
Determinations on applications.
1254.10
Withdrawal of application.
1254.11
Pilot programs.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4511, 4513, 4526 and Sec. 310, Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296.

# Source:
84 FR 41904, Aug. 16, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1254.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth standards and criteria for the process an Enterprise must establish to validate and approve any credit score model that produces any credit score that the Enterprise requires in its mortgage purchase procedures and systems.
(b) The validation and approval process for a credit score model includes the following phases: Solicitation of Applications, Submission of Applications and Initial Review, Credit Score Assessment, and Enterprise Business Assessment.
§ 1254.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply. Definitions of other terms may be found in 12 CFR part 1201, General Definitions Applying to All Federal Housing Finance Agency Regulations.
Credit score
means a numerical value or a categorization created by a third party derived from a statistical tool or modeling system used by a person who makes or arranges a loan to predict the likelihood of certain credit behaviors, including default.
Credit score model
means a statistical tool or algorithm created by a third party used to produce a numerical value or categorization to predict the likelihood of certain credit behaviors.
Credit score model developer
means any person with ownership rights in the intellectual property of a credit score model.
Days
means calendar days.
Mortgage
means a residential mortgage as that term is defined at 12 U.S.C. 1451(h).
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, organization, or other legal entity.
§ 1254.3
Computation of time.
For purposes of this part, each time period begins on the day after the relevant event occurs
(e.g.,
the day after a submission is made) and continues through the last day of the relevant period. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next business day.
§ 1254.4
Requirements for use of a credit score.
(a)
Enterprise use of a credit score.
An Enterprise is not required to use a credit score for any business purpose. However, if an Enterprise conditions its purchase of a mortgage on the provision of a credit score for the borrower:
(1) The credit score must be derived from a credit score model that has been approved by the Enterprise in accordance with this part; and
(2) The Enterprise must provide for the use of the credit score by any automated underwriting system that uses a credit score and any other procedures and systems used by the Enterprise that use a credit score for mortgage purchases.
(b)
Replacement of credit score model.
An Enterprise may replace any credit score model then in use after a new credit score model has been approved in accordance with this part.
(c)
No right to continuing use.
Enterprise use of a particular credit score model does not create any right to or expectation of continuing, future, or permanent use of that credit score model by an Enterprise.
§ 1254.5
Solicitation of applications.
(a)
Required solicitations.
FHFA periodically will require the Enterprises to solicit applications from credit score model developers. FHFA will determine whether a solicitation should be initiated. FHFA will establish the solicitation requirement by notice to the Enterprises, which will include:
(1) The requirement to submit a Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA for review;
(2) A deadline for submission of the Credit Score Solicitation; and
(3) A timeframe for the solicitation period.
(b)
Credit Score Solicitation.
In connection with each required solicitation, an Enterprise must submit to FHFA a Credit Score Solicitation including:
(1) The opening and closing dates of the solicitation time period during
which the Enterprise will accept applications from credit score model developers;
(2) A description of the information that must be submitted with an application;
(3) A description of the process by which the Enterprise will obtain data for the assessment of the credit score model;
(4) A description of the process for the Credit Score Assessment and the Enterprise Business Assessment; and
(5) Any other requirements as determined by the Enterprise.
(c)
Review by FHFA.
Within 45 days of an Enterprise submission of its Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA, FHFA will either approve or disapprove the Enterprise's Credit Score Solicitation. FHFA may extend the time period for its review as needed. FHFA may impose such terms, conditions, or limitations on the approval of a Credit Score Solicitation as FHFA determines to be appropriate.
(d)
Publication.
Upon approval by FHFA, the Enterprise must publish the Credit Score Solicitation on its website for at least 90 days prior to the start of the solicitation time period.
(e)
Initial solicitation.
Each Enterprise must submit its initial Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA within 60 days of the effective date of this regulation. The initial solicitation time period will begin on a date determined by FHFA and will extend for 120 days.
§ 1254.6
Submission and initial review of applications.
(a)
Application requirements.
Each application submitted in response to a Credit Score Solicitation must meet the requirements set forth in the Credit Score Solicitation to which it responds. Each application must include the following elements, and any additional requirements that may be set forth in the Credit Score Solicitation:
(1)
Application fee.
Each application must include an application fee established by the Enterprise. An Enterprise may address conditions for refunding a portion of a fee in the Credit Score Solicitation. The application fee is intended to cover the direct costs to the Enterprise of conducting the Credit Score Assessment.
(2)
Fair lending certification and compliance.
Each application must address compliance of the credit score model and credit scores produced by it with federal fair lending requirements, including information on any fair lending testing and evaluation of the model conducted. Each application must include a certification that no characteristic that is based directly on or is highly correlated solely with a classification prohibited under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691(a)(1)), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3605(a)), or the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4545(1)) was used in the development of the credit score model or is used as a factor in the credit score model to produce credit scores.
(3)
Use of model by industry.
Each application must demonstrate use of the credit score by creditors to make a decision whether to extend credit to a prospective borrower. An Enterprise may address criteria for such demonstration in the Credit Score Solicitation. An Enterprise may permit such demonstration of use to include submission of testimonials by creditors (mortgage or non-mortgage) who use the applicant's credit score when making a determination to approve the extension of credit.
(4)
Qualification of credit score model developer.
Each application must include any information that an Enterprise may require to evaluate the credit score model developer (
i.e.,
relevant experience and financial capacity). Such information must include a detailed description of the credit score model developer's:
(i) Corporate structure, including any business relationship to any other person through any degree of common ownership or control;
(ii) Governance structure; and
(iii) Past financial performance.
(5)
Other requirements.
Each application must include any other information an Enterprise may require.
(b)
Historical consumer credit data.
An Enterprise may obtain any historical consumer credit data necessary for the Enterprise to test a credit score model's historical record of measuring and predicting default rates and other credit behaviors. An Enterprise may assess
the applicant for any costs associated with obtaining or receiving such data unless such costs were included in the up-front application fee.
(c)
Acceptance of applications.
Each application submitted in response to a Credit Score Solicitation within the solicitation time period must be reviewed for acceptance by the Enterprise.
(1)
Notice of status.
Within 60 days of an applicant's submission, the Enterprise must provide the applicant with an Application Status Notice, which will indicate whether the application requires additional information to be provided by the applicant. An applicant may submit additional information through the end of the solicitation period.
(2)
Complete application.
Completeness of an application will be determined by the Enterprise. An application is complete when an Enterprise determines that required information has been received by the Enterprise from the applicant and from any third party. Information from a third party for a specific application may be received by the Enterprise after the solicitation period closes. The Enterprise must notify the applicant upon determining that the application is complete with a Complete Application Notice.
§ 1254.7
Credit Score Assessment.
(a)
Requirement for Credit Score Assessment.
An Enterprise will undertake a Credit Score Assessment of each application that the Enterprise determines to be complete. An Enterprise must determine whether an application passes the Credit Score Assessment.
(b)
Testing for Credit Score Assessment.
An Enterprise must conduct statistical tests for accuracy and reliability that use one or more industry standard statistical tests for demonstrating divergence among borrowers' propensity to repay using the industry standard definition of default, applied to mortgages purchased by an Enterprise (including subgroups), as identified by the Enterprise.
(c)
Criteria for Credit Score Assessment.
The Credit Score Assessment is based on the following criteria:
(1)
Testing for accuracy.
A credit score model is accurate if it produces a credit score that appropriately reflects a borrower's propensity to repay a mortgage loan in accordance with its terms, permitting a credit score user to rank order the risk that the borrower will not repay the obligation in accordance with its terms relative to other borrowers.
(i)
Initial Credit Score Assessment.
For the Credit Score Assessment of applications submitted in response to the initial solicitation under § 1254.5(e), a credit score model meets the test for accuracy if it produces credit scores that meet a benchmark established by the Enterprise in the initial Credit Score Solicitation, as demonstrated by appropriate testing.
(ii)
Subsequent Credit Score Assessments.
For the Credit Score Assessment of applications submitted in response to any later solicitation under this part, a credit score model meets the test for accuracy if it produces credit scores that are more accurate than the credit scores produced by any credit score model that is required by the Enterprise at the time the test is conducted, as demonstrated by appropriate testing.
(2)
Testing for reliability.
A credit score model is reliable if it produces credit scores that maintain accuracy through the economic cycle. The Credit Score Assessment must evaluate whether a new credit score model produces credit scores that are at least as reliable as the credit scores produced by any credit score model that is required by the Enterprise at the time the test is conducted, as demonstrated by appropriate testing. Testing for reliability must demonstrate accuracy at a minimum of two points in the economic cycle when applied to mortgages purchased by an Enterprise (including subgroups), as identified by the Enterprise.
(3)
Testing for integrity.
A credit score model has integrity if, when producing a credit score, it uses relevant data that reasonably encompasses the borrower's credit history and financial performance. The Credit Score Assessment must evaluate whether a credit score model applicant has demonstrated that the model has integrity, based on appropriate testing or requirements identified by the Enterprise
(which may address, for example, the level of aggregation of data or whether observable data has been omitted or discounted when producing a credit score).
(4)
Other requirements.
An Enterprise may establish requirements for the Credit Score Assessment in addition to the criteria established by FHFA.
(c)
Third-party testing.
Testing required for the Credit Score Assessment may be conducted by:
(1) An Enterprise; or
(2) An independent third party selected or approved by an Enterprise.
(d)
Timing of Credit Score Assessment.
(1) An Enterprise must notify the applicant when the Enterprise begins the Credit Score Assessment. The Credit Score Assessment will begin no earlier than the close of the solicitation time period, unless FHFA has determined that an Enterprise should begin a Credit Score Assessment sooner. The Credit Score Assessment will extend for 180 days. FHFA may authorize not more than two extensions of time for the Credit Score Assessment, which shall not exceed 30 days each, upon a written request and showing of good cause by the Enterprise.
(2) An Enterprise must provide notice to the applicant within 30 days of a determination that the application has passed the Credit Score Assessment.
§ 1254.8
Enterprise Business Assessment.
(a)
Requirement for Enterprise Business Assessment.
An Enterprise will undertake an Enterprise Business Assessment of each application that the Enterprise determines to have passed the Credit Score Assessment. An Enterprise must determine whether an application passes the Enterprise Business Assessment.
(b)
Criteria for Enterprise Business Assessment.
The Enterprise Business Assessment is based on the following criteria:
(1)
Accuracy; reliability.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate whether a new credit score model produces credit scores that are more accurate than and at least as reliable as credit scores produced by any credit score model currently in use by the Enterprise. This evaluation must consider credit scores as used by the Enterprise within its systems or processes that use a credit score for mortgage purchases.
(2)
Fair lending assessment.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the fair lending risk and fair lending impact of the credit score model in accordance with standards and requirements related to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691(a)(1)), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3605(a)), and the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4545(1)) (including identification of potential impact, comparison of the new credit score model with any credit score model currently in use, and consideration of potential methods of using the new credit score model). This evaluation must consider credit scores as used by the Enterprise within its systems or processes that use a credit score for mortgage purchases. The fair lending assessment must also consider any impact on access to credit related to the use of a particular credit score model.
(3)
Impact on Enterprise operations and risk management, and impact on industry.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the impact using the credit score model would have on Enterprise operations (including any impact on purchase eligibility criteria and loan pricing) and risk management (including counterparty risk management) in accordance with standards and requirements related to prudential management and operations and governance set forth at parts 1236 and 1239 of this chapter. This evaluation must consider whether the benefits of using credit scores produced by that model can reasonably be expected to exceed the adoption and ongoing costs of using such credit scores, considering projected benefits and costs to the Enterprises. The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the impact of using the credit score model on industry operations and mortgage market liquidity, including costs associated with implementation of a newly approved credit score. This evaluation must consider whether the benefits of using credit scores produced by that model can reasonably be expected to exceed the adoption and ongoing costs of using such credit scores, considering
projected benefits and costs to the Enterprises and borrowers, including market liquidity and cost and availability of credit.
(4)
Competitive effects.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate whether using the credit score model could have an impact on competition in the industry. This evaluation must consider whether use of a credit score model could have an impact on competition due to any ownership or other business relationship between the credit score model developer and any other institution.
(5)
Third-Party Provider Review.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the credit score model developer under the Enterprise standards for approval of third-party providers.
(6)
Other requirements.
An Enterprise may establish requirements for the Enterprise Business Assessment in addition to the criteria established by FHFA.
(c)
Timing of Enterprise Business Assessment.
The Enterprise Business Assessment must be completed within 240 days.
(d)
FHFA Evaluation.
FHFA will conduct an independent analysis of the potential impacts of any change to an Enterprise's credit score model. FHFA will initiate its analysis no later than the beginning of the Enterprise Business Assessment. Based on its analysis, FHFA may:
(1) Require an Enterprise to undertake additional analysis, monitoring, or reporting to further the purposes of this part;
(2) Require an Enterprise to permit the use of a single credit score model or multiple credit score models; or
(3) Require any other change to an Enterprise program, policy, or practice related to the Enterprise's use of credit scores.
§ 1254.9
Determinations on applications.
(a)
Enterprise determinations subject to prior review and approval by FHFA.
An Enterprise must submit to FHFA a proposed determination of approval or disapproval for each application. Within 45 days of an Enterprise submission, FHFA must approve or disapprove the Enterprise's proposed determination. FHFA may extend the time period for its review as needed. FHFA may impose such terms, conditions, or limitations on the approval or disapproval of the Enterprise's proposed determination as FHFA determines to be appropriate.
(b)
Approval of a credit score model.
If an Enterprise approves an application for a credit score model following FHFA review of its proposed determination, the Enterprise must implement the credit score model in its mortgage purchase systems that use a credit score for mortgage purchases. The Enterprise must provide written notice to the applicant and the public within 30 days after the FHFA decision on the proposed determination.
(c)
Disapproval of a credit score model.
If an Enterprise disapproves an application for a credit score model following FHFA review of its proposed determination, the Enterprise must provide written notice to the applicant within 30 days after the FHFA decision on the proposed determination. An application may be disapproved under this section at any time during the validation and approval process based on any of the criteria identified in the Credit Score Solicitation. The notice to the applicant must provide a description of the reasons for disapproval.
§ 1254.10
Withdrawal of application.
At any time during the validation and approval process, an applicant may withdraw its application by notifying an Enterprise. The Enterprise may, in its sole discretion, determine whether to return any portion of the application fee paid by the applicant.
§ 1254.11
Pilot programs.
(a)
Pilots permitted; duration of pilots.
An Enterprise may undertake pilot programs to evaluate credit score models. If a pilot program involves a credit score model not in current use by an Enterprise, the credit score model is not required to be approved under this part.
(b)
Prior notice to FHFA.
Before commencing a pilot program, an Enterprise must submit the proposed pilot program to FHFA for review and approval. The Enterprise's submission to FHFA must include a complete and specific
description of the pilot program, including its purpose, duration, and scope. FHFA may impose such terms, conditions, or limitations on the pilot program as FHFA determines to be appropriate.

# SUBCHAPTER D—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS
Pt. 1260

# PART 1260—SHARING OF INFORMATION AMONG FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS
Sec.
1260.1
Definitions.
1260.2
Bank information to be shared.
1260.3
Requests to withhold proprietary information.
1260.4
Timing and form of information distribution.
1260.5
Control and disclosure of shared information.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1440a, 4511 and 4513.

# Source:
78 FR 73413, Dec. 6, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1260.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Non-public information
has the meaning set forth in § 1214.1 of this chapter.
Proprietary information
means trade secrets, or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information that, if shared among the Banks and the Office of Finance as provided under this part, would likely cause substantial competitive harm to the Bank to which the information pertains.
§ 1260.2
Bank information to be shared.
(a)
General.
In order to enable each Bank to evaluate the financial condition of any one or more of the other Banks and the Bank System, FHFA shall distribute to each Bank and to the Office of Finance, or shall require each Bank to distribute directly to each other Bank and the Office of Finance, such categories of financial and supervisory information regarding each Bank and the Bank system as it determines to be appropriate, subject to the requirements of this part.
(b)
Notice.
FHFA shall prepare and issue to each Bank and the Office of Finance a notice setting forth the categories of information to be distributed, which it shall review from time to time and revise as necessary to ensure that the information distributed remains useful to the Banks in evaluating the financial strength of the other Banks and the Bank System. Prior to issuing a new or revised notice, FHFA shall notify each Bank and the Office of Finance of its proposed contents and allow them a reasonable period within which to comment.
(c)
Director's orders.
The Director or his designee may issue such orders as are necessary to effect the distribution of the information set forth in the notice issued under paragraph (b) of this section and to carry out the provisions of this part.
§ 1260.3
Requests to withhold proprietary information.
(a)
General.
A Bank may request in writing that FHFA withhold from distribution, or determine that the Bank may withhold from distribution, particular information relating to the Bank that may otherwise be subject to distribution under § 1260.2 on the basis that it is proprietary information and the public interest requires that it not be shared. Any such request shall identify the particular information the Bank believes should not be distributed and provide support for the assertions that it is proprietary information and that withholding it from the other Banks and the Office of Finance is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b)
Timing of requests.
(1)
General.
Unless otherwise specified as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the period within which a Bank may make a request to withhold proprietary information under paragraph (a) of this section shall be as follows:
(i) For information that a Bank submits to FHFA, the request shall be delivered to FHFA no later than the time at which the Bank submits the subject information to FHFA.
(ii) For information that FHFA creates (not including compilations of data submitted by the Banks), prior to distributing any information relating to a particular Bank, FHFA shall provide that Bank with a copy of the information to be distributed, after which the Bank shall have ten (10) business days within which to deliver the request to FHFA.
(iii) For information that a Bank is required to distribute directly to the other Banks and the Office of Finance,
the request shall be delivered to FHFA no later than ten (10) business days prior to the date on which the Bank would otherwise be required to distribute the information.
(2)
As otherwise specified by FHFA.
Any notice issued by FHFA under § 1260.2(b) may establish requirements for the timing of requests to withhold proprietary information that are different from those specified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for any category of information to be distributed thereunder. In establishing such requirements, FHFA shall give due regard to the volume and complexity of the information to be reviewed, the Bank's existing familiarity with the information, the frequency of submission or distribution of the information, the likelihood that the information will contain proprietary information, and the effect that any delay in the distribution of the information would have on the fulfillment of the purposes of section 20A(a) of the Bank Act.
(c)
Determination and notice by FHFA.
After receiving a written request that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Director or his designee shall promptly determine whether FHFA will, or the Bank may, withhold any information from distribution pursuant to the request, which determination shall be final. FHFA shall promptly notify the affected Bank of that determination and shall not distribute any information that is the subject of the request until it has provided the required notice to the Bank.
§ 1260.4
Timing and form of information distribution.
(a)
Timing of distribution by FHFA.
FHFA may distribute information as provided in the notice issued under § 1260.2(b) after the expiration of the applicable time period specified in § 1260.3(b) unless, within that time period, the affected Bank has filed with FHFA a written request to withhold particular proprietary information that meets the requirements of § 1260.3(a). When a Bank has filed such a request, FHFA shall not distribute the information that is the subject of the request until the Director or his designee has made the determination and provided the notice required by § 1260.3(c) and shall distribute or withhold the subject information in conformity with that determination.
(b)
Timing of distribution by Banks.
A Bank that is required to distribute information directly to the other Banks and the Office of Finance shall distribute that information at the time specified in the notice issued under § 1260.2(b) unless, within the time period specified in § 1260.3(b)(1)(iii), the Bank has submitted to FHFA a request to withhold particular proprietary information that meets the requirements of § 1260.3(a). If the Bank has filed such a request, it need not distribute the information that is the subject of the request until the Director or his designee has made the determination and provided the notice required by § 1260.3(c). Thereafter, the Bank shall distribute or withhold the subject information in conformity with that determination.
(c)
Form.
FHFA may distribute information, or require a Bank to distribute information, under this part in either tangible or electronic form, as it deems appropriate.
§ 1260.5
Control and disclosure of shared information.
(a)
No waiver of privilege.
The release of information under this part does not constitute a waiver by FHFA of any privilege, or of its right to control, supervise or impose limitations on the subsequent use and disclosure of any information concerning a Bank. To the extent that any information provided to a Bank or the Office of Finance pursuant to this part qualifies as non-public information under part 1214 of this chapter, that information shall continue to qualify as such and shall continue to be subject to the restrictions on disclosure set forth in part 1214, provided that a Bank shall not be deemed to have violated any provision of § 1214.3 of this chapter by disclosing in its filings with the SEC non-public information about another Bank that was obtained pursuant to this part if the disclosure is limited to a recital of the relevant factual content of the underlying information and the Bank has provided the notice required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Disclosures under the Federal securities laws.
If a Bank determines in good faith that it is required by any applicable provision of the 1934 Act or of 17 CFR chapter II to disclose non-public information relating to another Bank that it has received pursuant to this part, it shall provide to FHFA and to the Bank to which the information pertains prior written notice of such determination and of the content and anticipated timing of the disclosure, which notice shall be provided as far in advance of the anticipated disclosure as is feasible under the circumstances.
(c)
Safeguarding of information.
A Bank may use non-public information distributed pursuant to this part only for the purposes described in section 20A(a) of the Bank Act. Except as otherwise provided in this part, neither the Office of Finance, nor any Bank, nor any officer, director or employee thereof, may disclose or permit the use or disclosure of any non-public information regarding another Bank received pursuant to this part in any manner or for any purpose. Each Bank and the Office of Finance shall implement policies and procedures to prevent the improper disclosure of such information and to limit the access of its personnel to such information, which policies and procedures shall be no less stringent than those that apply to the entity's own confidential and supervisory information.
(d)
Information regarding the Office of Finance.
A Bank president that receives any information regarding the Office of Finance in his or her capacity as a member of the board of directors of the Office of Finance may share the information with the board of directors of the Bank at which he or she is employed, as well as with the appropriate officers and employees of the Bank, subject to the limitations of this part.
Pt. 1261

# PART 1261—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK DIRECTORS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1261.1
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Federal Home Loan Bank Boards of Directors: Eligibility and Elections
1261.2
Definitions.
1261.3
General provisions.
1261.4
Designation of member directorships.
1261.5
Director eligibility.
1261.6
Determination of member votes.
1261.7
Nominations for member and independent directorships.
1261.8
Election process.
1261.9
Actions affecting director elections.
1261.10
Independent director conflict of interests.
1261.11
Conflict-of-interests policy for Bank directors.
1261.12
Reporting requirements for Bank directors.
1261.13
Ineligible Bank directors.
1261.14
Vacant Bank directorships.
1261.15
Minimum number of member directorships.
1261.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Federal Home Loan Bank Directors' Compensation and Expenses
1261.20
Definitions.
1261.21
General.
1261.22
Directors' compensation policy.
1261.23
Director disapproval.
1261.24
Board meetings.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426, 1427, 1432, 4511 and 4526.

# Source:
73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions

# Source:
75 FR 17039, May 5, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1261.1
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Federal Home Loan Bank Boards of Directors: Eligibility and Elections
§ 1261.2
Definitions.
As used in this Subpart B:
Advisory Council
means the Advisory Council each Bank is required to establish pursuant to section 10(j)(11) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11)), and part 1291 of this chapter.
Bona fide resident
of a Bank district means an individual who:
(1) Maintains a principal residence in the Bank district; or
(2) If serving as an independent director, owns or leases in his or her own name a residence in the Bank district and is employed in a voting state in the Bank district.
FHFA ID number
means the number assigned to a member by FHFA and used by FHFA and the Banks to identify a particular member.
Independent directorship
means a directorship, as defined by section 7(a)(4)(A) of the Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. 1427(a)(4)(A), that is filled by a plurality vote of the members at large by an individual having the qualifications specified by section 7(a)(3)(B)(i) or (ii), 12 U.S.C. 1427(a)(3)(B)(i) or (ii).
Member directorship
means a directorship, as defined by section 7(a)(4)(A) of the Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. 1427(a)(4)(A), that is filled by a plurality vote of the members located in a particular State by an individual who is an officer or director of a member located in that State.
Method of equal proportions
means the mathematical formula used by FHFA to allocate member directorships among the States in a Bank's district based on the relative amounts of Bank stock required to be held as of the record date by members located in each State.
Public interest director
means an individual serving in a public interest directorship.
Public interest directorship
means an independent directorship filled by an individual with more than four years of experience representing consumer or community interests in banking services, credit needs, housing or consumer financial protections.
Record date
means December 31 of the calendar year immediately preceding the election year.
Voting State
means the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or the State of the United States in which a member's principal place of business, as determined in accordance with 12 CFR part 1263, or any successor provision, is located as of the record date. The voting State of a member with a principal place of business located in the U.S. Virgin Islands as of the record date is Puerto Rico, and the voting State of a member with a principal place of business located in American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands as of the record date is Hawaii.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51460, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, 17040, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.3
General provisions.
(a)
Board size and composition.
Annually, the FHFA Director will determine the size of the board of directors for each Bank and will designate at least a majority, but no more than 60 percent, of the directorships as member directorships and the remainder as independent directorships. Annually, the board of directors of each Bank shall determine how many, if any, of the independent directorships with terms beginning the following January 1 shall be public interest directorships, ensuring that at all times the Bank will have at least two public interest independent directorships.
(b)
Term of directorships.
The term of office of each directorship shall be four years, except as adjusted pursuant to section 7(d) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C 1427(d)) to achieve a staggered board, and shall commence on January 1 of the calendar year so designated by FHFA.
(c)
Annual elections.
Each Bank annually shall conduct an election the purpose of which is to fill all directorships designated by FHFA as commencing on January 1 of the calendar year immediately following the year in which such election is commenced. Subject to the provisions of the Bank Act and in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, the disinterested members of the board of directors of each Bank, or a committee of disinterested directors, shall administer and conduct the annual election of directors. In so doing, the disinterested directors may use Bank staff or independent contractors to perform ministerial and administrative functions concerning the elections process.
(d)
Location of members.
In accordance with section 7(c) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C 1427(c)), for purposes of the election of member directors, a member is deemed to be located in its voting state, unless otherwise designated by the Director.
(e)
Dates.
If any date specified in this subpart for action by a Bank, or specified by a Bank pursuant to this subpart, falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the relevant time period is deemed to be extended to the next calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51460, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated at 75 FR 17039, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.4
Designation of member directorships.
(a)
Capital stock reports.
(1) On or before April 10 of each year, each Bank shall deliver to FHFA a capital stock report that indicates, as of the record date, the number of members located in each voting State in the Bank's district, the number of shares of Bank stock that each member (identified by its FHFA ID number) was required to hold, and the number of shares of Bank stock that all members located in each voting State were required to hold. If a Bank has issued more than one class of stock, it shall report the total shares of stock of all classes required to be held by the members. The Bank shall certify to FHFA that, to the best of its knowledge, the information provided in the capital stock report is accurate and complete, and that it has notified each member of its minimum capital stock holding requirement as of the record date.
(2) The number of shares of Bank stock that any member was required to hold as of the record date shall be determined in accordance with the minimum investment established by the capital plan for that Bank.
(b)
Designation of member directorships.
Using the method of equal proportions, the Director annually will conduct a designation of member directorships for each Bank based on the number of shares of Bank stock required to be held by the members in each State as of the record date. If a Bank has issued more than one class of stock, the Director will designate the directorships for each State in that Bank district based on the combined number of shares required to be held by the members in that State. For purposes of conducting the designation, the number of shares of Bank stock required to be held by members as of that date shall be determined in accordance with the minimum investment established by the capital plan for that Bank. In all cases, the Director will designate the directorships by using the information provided by each Bank in its capital stock report required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Allocation of directorships.
The member directorships designated by the Director will be allocated among the States by the Director in accordance with section 7(b) and (c) of the Bank Act.
(d)
Notification.
On or before June 1 of each year, FHFA will notify each Bank in writing of the total number of directorships established for the Bank and the number of member directorships designated as representing the members in each voting state in the Bank district.
(e)
Change of state.
If the annual designation of member directorships results in an existing directorship being redesignated as representing members in a different State, that directorship shall be deemed to terminate in the previous State as of December 31 of that year, and a new directorship to begin in the succeeding State as of January 1 of the next year. The new directorship shall be filled by vote of the members in the succeeding State and, in order to maintain the staggered terms of directorships, shall be adjusted to a term equal to the remaining term of the previous directorship if it had not been redesignated to another State.
[74 FR 51460, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, 17040, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.5
Director eligibility.
(a)
Eligibility requirements for member directors.
Each member director, and each nominee to a member directorship, shall be:
(1) A citizen of the United States; and
(2) An officer or director of a member that is located in the district in which the Bank is located and that meets all minimum capital requirements established by its appropriate Federal banking agency or appropriate State regulator. In the case of a director elected by the members, the institution of
which the director is an officer or director must have been a member as of the record date. In the case of a director elected by a Bank's board of directors to fill a vacancy, the institution of which the director is an officer or director must be a member at the time the board acts.
(b)
State designation for member directors.
Each member director, and each nominee to a member directorship, shall be an officer or director of a member that is located in the State to which the Director has allocated such directorship under § 1261.4(c).
(c)
Eligibility requirements for independent directors.
Each independent director, and each nominee to an independent directorship, shall be:
(1) A citizen of the United States; and
(2) A bona fide resident of the district in which the Bank is located.
(d)
Restrictions.
(1) A nominee is not eligible if he or she:
(i) Is an incumbent director, unless:
(A) The incumbent director's term of office would expire before the new term of office would begin; and
(B) The new term of office would not be barred by the term limit provision of section 7(d) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427(d)); or
(ii) Is a former director whose service would be barred by the term limit provision of section 7(d) of the Bank Act.
(2) For purposes of applying the term limit provision of section 7(d) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427(d)):
(i) A term of office that is adjusted after July 30, 2008 to a period of fewer than four years shall not be deemed to be a full term;
(ii) Any member director's election and service to a directorship with a three year term of office prior to July 30, 2008 shall be deemed to be a full term;
(iii) Any three-year term of office that ends immediately before a term of office that is adjusted after July 30, 2008 to a period of fewer than four years, and any term of office commencing immediately following such adjusted term of office, shall constitute consecutive full terms of office; and
(iv) Any period of time served by a director who has been elected by the board of directors to fill a vacancy shall not be deemed to constitute a full term.
(e)
Loss of eligibility.
A director shall become ineligible to remain in office if, during his or her term of office, the directorship to which he or she has been elected is eliminated. The incumbent director shall become ineligible after the close of business on December 31 of the year in which the directorship is eliminated.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51461, Oct. 7, 2009; 75 FR 17039, 17040, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.6
Determination of member votes.
(a)
In general.
Each Bank shall determine, in accordance with this section, the number of votes that each member of the Bank may cast for each directorship that is to be filled by the vote of the members.
(b)
Number of votes.
For each member directorship and each independent directorship that is to be filled in an election, each member shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of Bank stock that the member was required to hold as of the record date. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the number of votes that any member may cast for any one directorship shall not exceed the average number of shares of Bank stock required to be held as of the record date by all members located in the same State as of the record date. If a Bank has issued more than one class of stock, it shall calculate the average number of shares separately for each class of stock, using the total number of members in a State as the denominator, and shall apply those limits separately in determining the maximum number of votes that any member owning that class of stock may cast in the election. The number of shares of Bank stock that a member was required to hold as of the record date shall be determined in accordance with the minimum investment requirement established by the Bank's capital plan.
(c)
Voting preferences.
If the board of directors of a Bank includes any voting preferences as part of its approved capital plan, those preferences shall supersede the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section that otherwise would allow
a member to cast one vote for each share of Bank stock it was required to hold as of the record date. If a Bank establishes a voting preference for a class of stock, the members with voting rights shall remain subject to the provisions of section 7(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427(b)) that prohibit any member from casting any vote in excess of the average number of shares of stock required to be held by all members in its state.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51461, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.7
Nominations for member and independent directorships.
Within a reasonable time in advance of an election, a Bank shall notify each member in its district of the commencement of the election process. Such notice shall include:
(a)
Election announcement.
(1) The number of member directorships designated for each voting state in the Bank district and the number of independent directorships for the Bank;
(2) The name of each incumbent Bank director, the name and location of the member at which each member director serves, and the name and location of the organization with which each independent director is affiliated, if any, and the expiration date of each Bank director's term of office;
(3) A brief statement describing the skills and experience the Bank believes are most likely to add strength to the board of directors, provided that the Bank previously has conducted the annual assessment permitted by § 1261.9 and the Bank has elected to provide the results of the assessment to the members;
(4) An attachment indicating the name, location, and FHFA ID number of every member in the member's voting state, and the number of votes each such member may cast for each directorship to be filled by such members, as determined in accordance with § 1261.6; and
(5) If a member directorship is to be filled by members in a State, a nominating certificate for those members.
(b)
Member directorship nominations.
(1) Any member that is entitled to vote in the election may nominate an eligible individual to fill each available member directorship for its voting state by delivering to its Bank, prior to a deadline to be established by the Bank and set forth in the notice required in paragraph (a) of this section, a nominating certificate duly adopted by the member's governing body or by an individual authorized by the member's governing body to act on its behalf.
(2) The nominating certificate shall include the name of the nominee and the name, location, and FHFA ID number of the member the nominee serves as an officer or director.
(3) The Bank shall establish a deadline for delivery of nominating certificates, which shall be no earlier than 30 calendar days after the date on which the Bank delivers the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section, and the Bank shall not accept certificates received after that deadline. The Bank shall retain all accepted nominating certificates for at least two years after the date of the election.
(c)
Accepting member directorship nominations.
Promptly after receipt of any nominating certificate, a Bank shall notify in writing any individual nominated for a member directorship. An individual may accept the nomination only by delivering to the Bank, prior to a deadline established by the Bank and set forth in its notice, an executed director eligibility certification form prescribed by FHFA. A Bank shall allow each nominee at least 30 calendar days after the date the Bank delivered the notice of nomination within which to deliver the executed form. A nominee may decline the nomination by so advising the Bank in writing, or by failing to deliver a properly executed director eligibility certification form prior to the deadline. Each Bank shall retain all information received under this paragraph for at least two years after the date of the election.
(d)
Independent directorship nominations.
(1) Any individual who seeks to be an independent director of the board of directors of a Bank may deliver to the Bank, on or before the deadline set by the Bank for delivery of nominating
certificates, an executed independent director application form prescribed by FHFA that demonstrates that the individual both is eligible and has either of the following qualifications:
(i) More than four years of experience representing consumer or community interests in banking services, credit needs, housing, or consumer financial protections; or
(ii) Knowledge of or experience in one or more of the areas set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Any other interested party may recommend to the Bank that it consider a particular individual as a nominee for an independent directorship, but the Bank shall not nominate any individual unless the individual has delivered to the Bank, on or before the date the Bank has set for delivery of nominating certificates, an executed independent director application form prescribed by FHFA. The application form prescribed by FHFA will provide a means by which an individual can indicate an intent to be considered for a public interest directorship. The board of directors of the Bank may consider any individual for any independent directorship nomination, provided it has determined that the individual is eligible and qualified, but the board shall nominate for a public interest directorship only an individual who indicates on the application form a desire to be considered for a public interest directorship. The board of directors of the Bank shall consult with the Bank's Advisory Council before nominating any individual for any independent directorship. Each Bank shall include in its bylaws the procedures it intends to use for the nomination and election of the independent directors, and shall retain all information received under this paragraph for at least two years after the date of the election.
(3) Each Bank shall determine the number of public interest directorships to be included among its authorized independent directorships, provided that each Bank shall at all times have at least two such directorships, and shall announce that number to its members in the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. In submitting nominations to its members, each Bank shall nominate at least as many individuals as there are independent directorships to be filled in that year's election.
(e)
Independent director qualifications.
(1) Each independent director and each nominee for an independent directorship, other than a public interest directorship, shall have experience in, or knowledge of, one or more of the following areas: auditing and accounting, derivatives, financial management, organizational management, project development, risk management practices, and the law. Before nominating any individual for an independent directorship, other than a public interest directorship, the board of directors of a Bank shall determine that such knowledge or experience of the nominee is commensurate with that needed to oversee a financial institution with a size and complexity that is comparable to that of the Bank.
(2) Each public interest independent director and each nominee for a public interest directorship shall have more than four years of experience representing consumer or community interests in banking services, credit needs, housing or consumer financial protection.
(f)
Eligibility verification.
Using the information provided on member director eligibility forms prescribed by FHFA, each Bank shall verify that each nominee for each member directorship meets all the eligibility requirements for such directorship. Using the information provided on independent director application forms prescribed by FHFA, each Bank shall verify that each nominee for each public interest independent directorship and each other independent directorship meets all eligibility requirements and any knowledge or experience qualifications for such directorship, as set forth in the Bank Act and this subpart. Before announcing any independent director nominee, the Bank shall deliver to FHFA, for the Director's review, a copy of the independent director application forms executed by the individuals nominated for independent directorships. If within two weeks of such delivery FHFA provides comments to the Bank on any independent director nominee, the board of directors of the Bank shall
consider the FHFA's comments in determining whether to proceed with those nominees or to reopen the nomination.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51461, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.8
Election process.
(a)
Ballots.
Promptly after fulfilling the requirements of § 1261.7(f), each Bank shall prepare and deliver a ballot to each member that was a member as of the record date. The Bank shall include with each ballot a closing date for the Bank's receipt of voted ballots, which date shall be no earlier than 30 calendar days after the date such ballot is delivered to the member.
(1) A ballot shall include at least the following provisions:
(i) For states in which one or more member directorships are to be filled in the election, an alphabetical listing of the names of each nominee for such directorship, the name, location, and FHFA ID number of the member each nominee serves, the nominee's title or position with the member, and the number of member directorships to be filled by the members in that voting state in the election;
(ii) An alphabetical listing of the names of each nominee for a public interest independent directorship and a brief description of each nominee's experience representing consumer and community interests;
(iii) An alphabetical listing of the names of each nominee for the other independent directorships and a brief description of each nominee's qualifications, including his or her knowledge or experience in the areas of financial management, auditing and accounting, risk management practices, derivatives, project development, organizational management, and any other area of knowledge or experience set forth in § 1261.7(e);
(iv) A statement that write-in candidates are not permitted; and
(v) A confidentiality statement prohibiting the Bank from disclosing how any member voted.
(2) At the election of the Bank, a ballot also may include, in the body or as an attachment, a brief description of the skills and experience of each nominee for a member directorship.
(b)
Statement on skills and experience.
If a Bank has conducted an annual assessment permitted by § 1261.9 and has included the results of the assessment as part of the notice to members required in § 1261.7(a), it may include with each ballot a statement of the results of that assessment or any subsequent assessment. If the statement differs from the statement provided under § 1261.7(a)(3), the Bank also shall include an explanation of why the statements differ.
(c)
Lack of member directorship nominees.
If, for any voting State, the number of nominees for the member directorships for that State is equal to or fewer than the number of such directorships to be filled in that year's election, the Bank shall deliver a notice to the members in the affected voting State (in lieu of including any member directorship nominees on the ballot for that State) that such nominees shall be deemed elected without further action, due to an insufficient number of nominees to warrant balloting. Thereafter, the Bank shall declare elected all such eligible nominees. The nominees declared elected shall be included as directors-elect in the report of election required under paragraph (g) of this section. Any member directorship that is not filled due to a lack of nominees shall be deemed vacant as of January 1 of the following year and shall be filled by the Bank's board of directors in accordance with § 1261.14(a).
(d)
Voting.
For each directorship to be filled, a member may cast the number of votes determined by the Bank pursuant to § 1261.6. A member may not split its votes among multiple nominees for a single directorship, and, where there are multiple directorships to be filled, either within the member's voting state or at large, in the case of independent directorships, a member may not cumulatively vote for a single nominee. If any member votes, it shall by resolution of its governing body either authorize the voting for specific nominees or delegate to an individual the authority to vote for specific nominees. To vote, a member shall:
(1) Mark on the ballot the name of not more than one of the nominees for
each directorship to be filled. Each nominee so selected shall receive all of the votes that the member is entitled to cast.
(2) Execute and deliver the ballot to the Bank on or before the closing date. A Bank shall not allow a member to change a ballot after it has been delivered to the Bank.
(e)
Counting ballots.
A Bank shall not review any ballot until after the closing date, and shall not include in the election results any ballot received after the closing date. Promptly after the closing date, each Bank shall tabulate the votes cast in the election: for the member directorships, the Bank shall tabulate votes by each voting state; for the independent directorships, the Bank shall tabulate votes for the district at-large. Any ballots cast in violation of paragraph (d) of this section shall be void.
(f)
Declaring results
— (1)
For member directorships.
The Bank shall declare elected the nominee receiving the highest number of votes. If more than one member directorship is to be filled for a particular State, the Bank shall declare elected each successive nominee receiving the next highest number of votes until all such open directorships are filled.
(2)
For independent directorships.
(i) The bank shall tabulate separately the votes received for public interest independent director nominees and those received for other independent director nominees, in each case in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If the number of nominees exceeds the number of directorships to be filled, the Bank shall declare elected the nominee receiving the highest number of votes. If more than one directorship is to be filled, the Bank shall declare elected each successive nominee receiving the next highest number of votes for such directorship until all such open directorships are filled.
(iii) If the number of nominees is no more than the number of directorships to be filled, the Bank shall declare elected each nominee receiving at least 20 percent of the number of votes eligible to be cast in the election. If any directorship is not filled due to any nominee's failure to receive at least 20 percent of the votes eligible to be cast, the Bank shall continue the election process for that directorship under the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Tie votes.
In the event of a tie for the last available directorship, the disinterested incumbent members of the board of directors of the Bank, by a majority vote, shall declare elected one of the nominees for whom the number of votes cast was tied.
(4)
Eligibility.
A Bank shall not declare elected a nominee that it has reason to know is ineligible to serve, nor shall it seat a director-elect that it has reason to know is ineligible to serve.
(5)
Record retention.
The Bank shall retain all ballots it receives for at least two years after the date of the election, and shall not disclose how any member voted.
(g)
Report of election.
Promptly following the election, each Bank shall deliver a notice to its members, to each nominee, and to FHFA that contains the following information:
(1) For each member directorship, the name of the director-elect, the name and location of the member at which he or she serves, his or her title or position at the member, the voting State represented, and the expiration date of the term of office;
(2) For each independent directorship, the name of the director-elect, whether the director-elect will fill a public interest directorship and, if so, the consumer or community interest represented by such directorship, any qualifications under § 1261.7(e), and the expiration date of the term of office;
(3) For member directorships, the total number of eligible votes, the number of members voting in the election, and the total number of votes cast for each nominee, which shall be reported by State; and
(4) For independent directorships, the total number of eligible votes, the number of members voting in the election, and the total number of votes cast for each nominee, which shall be reported for the district at large.
(h)
Failure to fill all independent directorships.
If any independent directorship is not filled due to the failure of any nominee to receive at least 20 percent of the eligible vote, the Bank shall
continue the election process for that directorship under the following procedures:
(1) The Bank's board of directors, after again consulting with the Bank's Advisory Council, shall nominate at least as many individuals as there are independent directorships to be filled. It may nominate individuals who failed to be elected in the initial vote. The Bank thereafter shall deliver to FHFA a copy of the independent director application form executed by each nominee.
(2) The Bank then shall follow the provisions in this section that are applicable to the election process for independent directors, except for the following:
(i) The Bank shall not place the name of any nominee on a ballot without prior approval of FHFA; and
(ii) The Bank may adopt a closing date that is earlier than 30 calendar days after delivery of the ballots to the eligible voting members, provided the Bank determines that an earlier closing date provides a reasonable amount of time to vote the ballots.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51462, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, 17040, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.9
Actions affecting director elections.
(a)
Banks.
Each Bank, acting through its board of directors, may conduct an annual assessment of the skills and experience possessed by the members of its board of directors as a whole and may determine whether the capabilities of the board would be enhanced through the addition of individuals with particular skills and experience. If the board of directors determines that the Bank could benefit by the addition to the board of directors of individuals with particular qualifications, such as auditing and accounting, derivatives, financial management, organizational management, project development, risk management practices, or the law, it may identify those qualifications and so inform the members as part of its announcement of elections pursuant to § 1261.7(a).
(b)
Support for nomination or election.
(1) A Bank director, officer, attorney, employee, or agent, acting in his or her personal capacity, may support the nomination or election of any individual for a member directorship, provided that no such individual shall purport to represent the views of the Bank or its board of directors in doing so.
(2) A Bank director, officer, attorney, employee or agent and the board of directors and Advisory Council (including members of the Council) of a Bank may support the candidacy of any individual nominated by the board of directors for election to an independent directorship.
(c)
Prohibition.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or § 1223.21(b)(7) of this chapter, no director, officer, attorney, employee, or agent of a Bank shall:
(1) Communicate in any manner that a director, officer, attorney, employee, or agent of a Bank, directly or indirectly, supports or opposes the nomination or election of a particular individual for a directorship; or
(2) Take any other action to influence the voting with respect to any particular individual.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51463, Oct. 7, 2009; 81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016; 83 FR 39326, Aug. 9, 2018]
§ 1261.10
Independent director conflict of interests.
(a)
Employment interests.
During any independent director's term of service, such director shall not serve as an officer, employee, or director of any member of the Bank on whose board the individual sits, or of any recipient of advances from such Bank, and shall not serve as an officer of any Bank. An independent director or nominee for any independent directorship shall disclose all such interests to the Bank on whose board of directors the individual serves or which is considering the individual for nomination to its board of directors.
(b)
Holding companies.
Service as an officer, employee, or director of a holding company that controls one or more members of, or one or more recipients of advances from, the Bank on whose board an independent director serves is not deemed to be service as an officer, employee or director of a member or recipient of advances if the assets of all
such members or all such recipients of advances constitute less than 35 percent of the assets of the holding company, on a consolidated basis.
(c)
Attribution.
For purposes of determining compliance with this section, a Bank shall attribute to the independent director any officer position, employee position, or directorship of the director's spouse.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51463, Oct. 7, 2009]
§ 1261.11
Conflict-of-interests policy for Bank directors.
(a)
Adoption of conflict-of-interests policy.
Each Bank shall adopt a written conflict-of-interests policy that applies to all members of its board of directors. At a minimum, the conflict-of-interests policy of each Bank shall:
(1) Require the directors to administer the affairs of the Bank fairly and impartially and without discrimination in favor of or against any member;
(2) Require independent directors to comply with § 1261.10(a);
(3) Prohibit the use of a director's official position for personal gain;
(4) Require directors to disclose actual or apparent conflicts of interests and establish procedures for addressing such conflicts;
(5) Require the establishment of internal controls to ensure that conflict-of-interests reports are made and filed and that conflict-of-interests issues are disclosed and resolved; and
(6) Establish procedures to monitor compliance with the conflict-of-interests policy.
(b)
Disclosure and recusal.
A director shall disclose to the Bank's board of directors any financial interests he or she has, as well as any financial interests known to the director of any immediate family member or business associate of the director, in any matter to be considered by the Bank's board of directors and in any other business matter or proposed business matter involving the Bank and any other person or entity. A director shall disclose fully the nature of his or her interests in the matter and shall provide to the Bank's board of directors any information requested to aid in its consideration of the director's interest. A director shall refrain from considering or voting on any issue in which the director, any immediate family member, or any business associate has any financial interest.
(c)
Confidential Information.
Directors shall not disclose or use confidential information they receive solely by reason of their position with the Bank to obtain any benefit for themselves or for any other individual or entity.
(d)
Gifts.
No Bank director shall accept, and each Bank director shall discourage the director's immediate family members from accepting, any gift that the director believes or has reason to believe is given with the intent to influence the director's actions as a member of the Bank's board of directors, or where acceptance of such gift would have the appearance of intending to influence the director's actions as a member of the board. Any insubstantial gift would not be expected to trigger this prohibition.
(e)
Compensation.
Directors shall not accept compensation for services performed for the Bank from any source other than the Bank for which the services are performed.
(f)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Immediate family member
means parent, sibling, spouse, child, or dependent, or any relative sharing the same residence as the director.
(2)
Financial interest
means a direct or indirect financial interest in any activity, transaction, property, or relationship that involves receiving or providing something of monetary value, and includes, but is not limited to any right, contractual or otherwise, to the payment of money, whether contingent or fixed. It does not include a deposit or savings account maintained with a member, nor does it include a loan or extension of credit obtained from a member in the normal course of business on terms that are available generally to the public.
(3)
Business associate
means any individual or entity with whom a director has a business relationship, including, but not limited to:
(i) Any corporation or organization of which the director is an officer or partner, or in which the director beneficially owns ten percent or more of
any class of equity security, including subordinated debt;
(ii) Any other partner, officer, or beneficial owner of ten percent or more of any class of equity security, including subordinated debt, of any such corporation or organization; and
(iii) Any trust or other estate in which a director has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which the director serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity.
[73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51463, Oct. 7, 2009]
§ 1261.12
Reporting requirements for Bank directors.
(a)
Annual reporting.
Annually, each Bank shall require each of its directors to execute and deliver to the Bank the appropriate director eligibility certification form prescribed by FHFA for the type of directorship held by such director. The Bank promptly shall deliver to FHFA a copy of the certification form delivered to it by each director.
(b)
Report of noncompliance.
At any time that any director believes or has reason to believe that he or she no longer meets the eligibility requirements set forth in the Bank Act or this subpart, the director promptly shall so notify the Bank and FHFA in writing. At any time that a Bank believes or has reason to believe that any director no longer meets the eligibility requirements set forth in the Bank Act or this subpart, the Bank promptly shall notify FHFA in writing.
[74 FR 51463, Oct. 7, 2009]
§ 1261.13
Ineligible Bank directors.
Upon a determination by FHFA or a Bank that any director of the Bank no longer satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth in the Bank Act or this subpart, or has failed to comply with the reporting requirements of § 1261.12, the directorship shall immediately become vacant. Any director that is determined to have failed to comply with any of these requirements shall not continue to serve as a Bank director. Whenever a Bank makes such a determination, the Bank promptly shall notify the Bank director and FHFA in writing.
[74 FR 51464, Oct. 7, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.14
Vacant Bank directorships.
(a)
Filling unexpired terms.
(1) When a vacancy occurs on the board of directors of any Bank, the board of directors of the Bank shall elect, by a majority vote of the remaining Bank directors sitting as a board, an individual to fill the unexpired term of office of the vacant directorship, regardless of whether the remaining Bank directors constitute a quorum of the Bank's board of directors.
(2) The board of directors of the Bank may fill an anticipated vacancy prior to the effective date of the vacancy, provided the board does so no sooner than the date of the regularly scheduled board meeting that occurs immediately prior to the effective date of the vacancy.
(3) The board of directors shall elect only an individual who satisfies all the eligibility requirements in the Bank Act and in this subpart that applied to his or her predecessor and, for independent directorships, also satisfies any of the qualifications in the Bank Act or this subpart. If a Bank does not have at least two sitting public interest independent directors, the board of directors of the Bank shall designate the directorship as a public interest directorship and shall elect an individual who satisfies a public interest independent directorship qualification in the Bank Act or in this subpart.
(b)
Verifying eligibility.
Prior to any election by the board of directors, the Bank shall obtain an executed member director eligibility certification form prescribed by FHFA from each individual being considered to fill a member directorship and an executed independent director application form prescribed by FHFA from each individual being considered to fill an independent directorship. Using the executed forms, each Bank shall verify each individual's eligibility and, as to independent directors, also shall verify the individual's qualifications. Before any independent director is elected by the board of directors of a Bank, the Bank shall deliver to FHFA for its review a
copy of the application form of each individual being considered by the board. The Bank shall retain the information it receives in accordance with § 1261.7(c) and (d).
(c)
Notification.
Promptly after allowing the individual to assume the directorship, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Bank shall notify FHFA and each member located in the Bank's district in writing of the following:
(1) For each member directorship filled by the board of a Bank, the name of the director, the name, location, and FHFA ID number of the member the director serves, the director's title or position with the member, the voting State that the director represents, and the expiration date of the director's term of office; and
(2) For each independent directorship filled by the board of a Bank, the name of the director, the name and location of the organization with which the director is affiliated, if any, the director's title or position with such organization, and the expiration date of the director's term of office.
[74 FR 51464, Oct. 7, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 17039, Apr. 5, 2010]
§ 1261.15
Minimum number of member directorships.
Except with respect to member directorships of a Bank resulting from the merger of any two or more Banks, the number of member directorships allocated to each state shall not be less than the number of directorships allocated to that state on December 31, 1960. The following table sets forth the states within Bank districts not created from the merger of two or more Banks whose members held more than one directorship on December 31, 1960:
State
Number of
elective
directorships on
December 31, 1960
California
3
Colorado
2
Illinois
4
Indiana
5
Kansas
3
Kentucky
2
Louisiana
2
Massachusetts
3
Michigan
3
New Jersey
4
New York
4
Ohio
4
Oklahoma
2
Pennsylvania
6
Tennessee
2
Texas
3
Wisconsin
4
[81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1261.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Federal Home Loan Bank Directors' Compensation and Expenses

# Source:
75 FR 17040, Apr. 5, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1261.20
Definitions.
As used in this subpart C:
Compensation
means any payment of money or the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection with service as a director. Compensation includes all direct and indirect payments of benefits, both cash and non-cash, granted to or for the benefit of any director.
Expenses
means necessary and reasonable travel, subsistence and other related expenses incurred in connection with the performance of official duties as are payable to senior officers of the Bank under the Bank's travel policy, except gift or entertainment expenses.
§ 1261.21
General.
(a)
Standard.
Each Bank may pay its directors reasonable compensation for the time required of them, and their necessary expenses, in the performance of their duties, as determined by a resolution adopted by the board of directors of the Bank and subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(b)
Reporting—
(1)
Following calendar year.
By December 31 of each calendar year, each Bank shall report to the Director the compensation it anticipates paying to its directors for the following calendar year.
(2)
Preceding calendar year.
No later than the tenth business day of each calendar year, each Bank shall report to the Director the following information relating to director compensation, expenses and meeting attendance for
the immediately preceding calendar year:
(i) The total compensation paid to each director;
(ii) The total expenses paid to each director;
(iii) The total compensation paid to all directors;
(iv) The total expenses paid to all directors;
(v) The total of all expenses incurred at group functions that are not reimbursed to individual directors, such as the cost of group meals in connection with board and committee meetings;
(vi) The total number of meetings held by the board and its designated committees; and
(vii) The number of board and designated committee meetings each director attended in-person or through electronic means such as video or teleconferencing.
§ 1261.22
Directors' compensation policy.
(a)
General.
Each Bank's board of directors annually shall adopt a written compensation policy to provide for the payment of reasonable compensation and expenses to the directors for the time required of them in performing their duties as directors. Payments under the directors' compensation policy may be based on any factors that the board of directors determines reasonably to be appropriate, subject to the requirements in this subpart.
(b)
Minimum contents.
The compensation policy shall address the activities or functions for which director attendance or participation is necessary and which may be compensated, and shall explain and justify the methodology used to determine the amount of compensation to be paid to the Bank directors. The compensation policy shall require that any compensation paid to a director reflect the amount of time the director has spent on official Bank business, and shall require that compensation be reduced, as necessary to reflect lesser attendance or performance at board or committee meetings during a given year.
(c)
Prohibited payments.
A Bank shall not pay a director who regularly fails to attend board or committee meetings, and shall not pay fees to a director that do not reflect the director's performance of official Bank business conducted prior to the payment of such fees.
(d)
Submission requirements.
No later than the tenth business day after adopting its annual policy for director compensation and expenses, and at least 30 days prior to disbursing the first payment to any director, each Bank shall submit to the Director a copy of the policy, along with all studies or other supporting materials upon which the board relied in determining the level of compensation and expenses to pay to its directors.
§ 1261.23
Director disapproval.
The Director may determine, based upon his or her review of a Bank's director compensation policy, methodology and/or other related materials, that the compensation and/or expenses to be paid to the directors are not reasonable. In such case, the Director may order the Bank to refrain from making any further payments under that compensation policy. Any such order shall apply prospectively only and will not affect either compensation or expenses that have been earned but not yet paid or reimbursed or payments that had been made prior to the date of the Director's determination and order.
§ 1261.24
Board meetings.
(a)
Number of meetings.
The board of directors of each Bank shall hold as many meetings each year as necessary and appropriate to carry out its fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the effective oversight of Bank management and such other duties and obligations as may be imposed by applicable laws, provided the board of directors of a Bank must hold a minimum of six in-person meetings in any year.
(b)
Site of meetings.
The bank usually should hold board of director and committee meetings within the district served by the Bank. The Bank shall not hold board of director or committee meetings in any location that is not within the United States, including its possessions and territories.
Subpart D [Reserved]
Pt. 1263

# PART 1263—MEMBERS OF THE BANKS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1263.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Membership Application Process
1263.2
Membership application requirements.
1263.3
Decision on application.
1263.4
Automatic membership.
1263.5
Appeals.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements
1263.6
General eligibility requirements.
1263.7
Duly organized requirement.
1263.8
Subject to inspection and regulation requirement.
1263.9
Makes long-term home mortgage loans requirement.
1263.10
Ten percent requirement for certain insured depository institution applicants.
1263.11
Financial condition requirement for depository institutions and CDFI credit unions.
1263.12
Character of management requirement.
1263.13
Home financing policy requirement.
1263.14
De novo insured depository institution applicants.
1263.15
Recently consolidated applicants.
1263.16
Financial condition requirement for insurance company and certain CDFI applicants.
1263.17
Rebuttable presumptions.
1263.18
Determination of appropriate Bank district for membership.
1263.19
Non-federally-insured credit unions.

# Subpart D—Stock Requirements
1263.20
Stock purchase.
1263.21
[Reserved]
1263.22
Annual calculation of stock holdings.
1263.23
Excess stock.

# Subpart E—Withdrawal, Termination, and Readmission
1263.24
Consolidations involving members.
1263.25
[Reserved]
1263.26
Voluntary withdrawal from membership.
1263.27
Involuntary termination of membership.
1263.28
[Reserved]
1263.29
Disposition of claims.
1263.30
Readmission to membership.

# Subpart F—Other Membership Provisions
1263.31
Reports and examinations.
1263.32
Official membership insignia.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1422, 1423, 1424, 1426, 1430, 1442, 4511, 4513.

# Source:
81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1263.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Adjusted net income
means net income, excluding extraordinary items such as income received from, or expense incurred in, sales of securities or fixed assets, reported on a regulatory financial report.
Affiliate
means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity. For purposes of this definition, one entity controls another if it:
(1) Directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons, owns, controls, or has the power to vote twenty-five (25) percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the other entity, including shares of common or preferred stock, general or limited partnership shares or interests, or similar interests that entitle the holder:
(i) To vote for or to select directors, trustees, or partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of that entity; or
(ii) To vote on or to direct the conduct of the operations or other significant policies of that entity;
(2) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of the other entity; or
(3) Otherwise has the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other entity through a management agreement, common directors or management officials, or by any other means.
Aggregate unpaid loan principal
means the aggregate unpaid principal of a subscriber's or member's home mortgage loans, home-purchase contracts and similar obligations.
Allowance for loan and lease losses
means a specified balance-sheet account held to fund potential losses on loans or leases, which is reported on a regulatory financial report.
Appropriate regulator
means:
(1) In the case of an insured depository institution or a CDFI credit union, an appropriate Federal banking agency or appropriate State regulator, as applicable; or
(2) In the case of an insurance company, an appropriate State regulator accredited by the NAIC.
Captive
means an entity that holds an insurance license or charter under the laws of a State, but that does not meet the definition of “insurance company” set forth in this section or fall within any other category of institution that may be eligible for membership.
CDFI credit union
means a State-chartered credit union that does not have Federal share insurance and that has been certified as a CDFI by the CDFI Fund.
CDFI Fund
means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established under section 104(a) of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).
CFI asset cap
means $1 billion, as adjusted annually by FHFA, beginning in 2009, to reflect any percentage increase in the preceding year's Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor.
Class A stock
means capital stock issued by a Bank, including subclasses, that has the characteristics specified in section 6(a)(4)(A)(i) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426(a)(4)(A)(i)) and applicable FHFA regulations.
Class B stock
means capital stock issued by a Bank, including subclasses, that has the characteristics specified in section 6(a)(4)(A)(ii) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426(a)(4)(A)(ii)) and applicable FHFA regulations.
Combination business or farm property
means real property for which the total appraised value is attributable to residential, and business or farm uses.
Community development financial institution
or
CDFI
means an institution that is certified as a community development financial institution by the CDFI Fund under the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
), other than a bank or savings association insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
), a holding company for such a bank or savings association, or a credit union that has Federal share insurance.
Community financial institution or CFI
means an institution:
(1) The deposits of which are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
); and
(2) The total assets of which, as of the date of a particular transaction, are less than the CFI asset cap, with total assets being calculated as an average of total assets over three years, with such average being based on the institution's regulatory financial reports filed with its appropriate regulator for the most recent calendar quarter and the immediately preceding 11 calendar quarters.
Composite regulatory examination rating
means a composite rating assigned to an institution following the guidelines of the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council), including a CAMELS rating or other similar rating, contained in a written regulatory examination report.
Consolidation
means a combination of two or more business entities, and includes a consolidation of two or more entities into a new entity, a merger of one or more entities into another entity, or a purchase of substantially all of the assets and assumption of substantially all of the liabilities of an entity by another entity.
CRA
means the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
).
CRA performance evaluation
means, unless otherwise specified, a formal performance evaluation of an institution prepared by its appropriate regulator as required by the CRA or, if such a formal evaluation is unavailable for a particular institution, an informal or preliminary evaluation.
De novo insured depository institution
means an insured depository institution with a charter approved by its appropriate regulator within the three years prior to the date the institution applies for Bank membership.
Dwelling unit
means a single room or a unified combination of rooms designed for residential use.
Enforcement action
means any written notice, directive, order, or agreement initiated by an applicant for Bank membership or by its appropriate regulator to address any operational, financial, managerial, or other deficiencies of the applicant identified by such regulator. An “enforcement action” does not include a board of directors' resolution adopted by the applicant in response to examination weaknesses identified by such regulator.
Federal share insurance
means insurance coverage of credit union member accounts provided by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund under subchapter II of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1781
et seq.
).
Funded residential construction loan
means the portion of a loan secured by real property made to finance the on-site construction of dwelling units on one-to-four family property or multifamily property disbursed to the borrower.
Gross revenues
means, in the case of a CDFI applicant, total revenues received from all sources, including grants and other donor contributions and earnings from operations.
Home mortgage loan
means:
(1) A loan, whether or not fully amortizing, or an interest in such a loan, which is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement that creates a first lien on one of the following interests in property:
(i) One-to-four family property or multifamily property, in fee simple;
(ii) A leasehold on one-to-four family property or multifamily property under a lease of not less than 99 years that is renewable, or under a lease having a period of not less than 50 years to run from the date the mortgage was executed; or
(iii) Combination business or farm property where at least fifty (50) percent of the total appraised value of the combined property is attributable to the residential portion of the property, or in the case of any community financial institution, combination business or farm property, on which is located a permanent structure actually used as a residence (other than for temporary or seasonal housing), where the residence constitutes an integral part of the property; or
(2) A security representing:
(i) A right to receive a portion of the cash flows from a pool of long-term loans, provided that, at the time of issuance of the security, all of the loans meet the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(ii) An interest in other securities, all of which meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(i) of this definition.
Insurance company
means an entity that holds an insurance license or charter under the laws of a State and whose primary business is the underwriting of insurance for persons or entities that are not its affiliates.
Insured depository institution
means:
(1) An insured depository institution as defined in section 2(9) of the Bank Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1422(9)); and
(2) To the extent provided under § 1263.19, a non-federally-insured credit union.
Long-term
means a term to maturity of five years or greater at the time of origination.
Manufactured housing
means a manufactured home as defined in section 603(6) of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5402(6)).
Multifamily property
means:
(1) Real property that is solely residential and includes five or more dwelling units;
(2) Real property that includes five or more dwelling units combined with commercial units, provided that the property is primarily residential; or
(3) Nursing homes, dormitories, or homes for the elderly.
NAIC
means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
Non-federally-insured credit union
means a State-chartered credit union that does not have Federal share insurance and that has not been certified as a CDFI by the CDFI Fund.
Nonperforming loans and leases
means the sum of the following, reported on a regulatory financial report:
(1) Loans and leases that have been past due for 90 days (60 days, in the case of credit union applicants) or longer but are still accruing;
(2) Loans and leases on a nonaccrual basis; and
(3) Restructured loans and leases (not already reported as nonperforming).
Nonresidential real property
means real property that is not used for residential purposes, including business or industrial property, hotels, motels, churches, hospitals, educational and charitable institution buildings or facilities, clubs, lodges, association buildings, golf courses, recreational facilities, farm property not containing a dwelling unit, or similar types of property.
One-to-four family property
means:
(1) Real property that is solely residential, including one-to-four family dwelling units or more than four family dwelling units if each dwelling unit is separated from the other dwelling units by dividing walls that extend from ground to roof, such as row houses, townhouses, or similar types of property;
(2) Manufactured housing if applicable State law defines the purchase or holding of manufactured housing as the purchase or holding of real property;
(3) Individual condominium dwelling units or interests in individual cooperative housing dwelling units that are part of a condominium or cooperative building without regard to the number of total dwelling units therein; or
(4) Real property which includes one-to-four family dwelling units combined with commercial units, provided the property is primarily residential.
Operating expenses
means, in the case of a CDFI applicant, expenses for business operations, including, but not limited to, staff salaries and benefits, professional fees, interest, loan loss provision, and depreciation, contained in the applicant's audited financial statements.
Other real estate owned
means all other real estate owned (
i.e.,
foreclosed and repossessed real estate), reported on a regulatory financial report, and does not include direct and indirect investments in real estate ventures.
Regulatory examination report
means a written report of examination prepared by the applicant's appropriate regulator, containing, in the case of insured depository institution applicants, a composite rating assigned to the institution following the guidelines of the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System, including a CAMELS rating or other similar rating.
Regulatory financial report
means a financial report that an institution is required to file with its appropriate regulator on a specific periodic basis, including the quarterly call report for commercial banks and savings associations, quarterly or semi-annual call report for credit unions, NAIC's annual or quarterly statement for insurance companies, or other similar report, including such report maintained by the appropriate regulator in an electronic database.
Residential mortgage loan
means any one of the following types of loans, whether or not fully amortizing:
(1) A home mortgage loan;
(2) A funded residential construction loan;
(3) A loan secured by manufactured housing whether or not defined by State law as secured by an interest in real property;
(4) A loan secured by a junior lien on one-to-four family property or multifamily property;
(5) A security representing:
(i) A right to receive a portion of the cash flows from a pool of loans, provided that, at the time of issuance of the security, all of the loans meet the requirements of one of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition; or
(ii) An interest in other securities that meet the requirements of paragraph (5)(i) of this definition;
(6) A home mortgage loan secured by a leasehold interest, as defined in paragraph (1)(ii) of the definition of “home mortgage loan,” except that the period of the lease term may be for any duration; or
(7) A loan that finances one or more properties or activities that, if made by a member, would satisfy the statutory requirements for the Community Investment Program established under
section 10(i) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(i)), or the regulatory requirements established for any Community Investment Cash Advance program.
Restricted assets
means both permanently restricted assets and temporarily restricted assets, as those terms are used in Financial Accounting Standard No. 117, or any successor publication.
Total assets
means the total assets reported on a regulatory financial report or, in the case of a CDFI applicant, the total assets contained in the applicant's audited financial statements.
Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents
means, in the case of a CDFI applicant, cash and highly liquid assets that can be easily converted into cash that are not restricted in a manner that prevents their use in paying expenses, as contained in the applicant's audited financial statements.
[81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25722, June 5, 2017]

# Subpart B—Membership Application Process
§ 1263.2
Membership application requirements.
(a)
Application.
Except as otherwise specified in this part, no institution may become a member of a Bank unless it has submitted to that Bank an application that satisfies the requirements of this part. The application shall include a written resolution or certification duly adopted by the applicant's board of directors, or by an individual with authority to act on behalf of the applicant's board of directors, of the following:
(1)
Applicant review.
The applicant has reviewed the requirements of this part and, as required by this part, has provided to the best of its knowledge the most recent, accurate, and complete information available; and
(2)
Duty to supplement.
The applicant will promptly supplement the application with any relevant information that comes to its attention prior to the Bank's decision on whether to approve or deny the application, and if the Bank's decision is appealed pursuant to § 1263.5, prior to resolution of any appeal by FHFA.
(b)
Digest.
The Bank shall prepare a written digest for each applicant stating whether or not the applicant meets each of the requirements in §§ 1263.6 to 1263.19, the Bank's findings, and the reasons therefor. In preparing a digest for an applicant whose satisfaction of the membership eligibility requirements of § 1263.6(a) is contingent upon its meeting the definition of “insurance company” set forth in § 1263.1, the Bank shall state its conclusion as to whether the applicant meets that definition and summarize the bases for that conclusion. In preparing a digest for a non-federally-insured credit union applicant, the Bank shall summarize the manner in which the applicant has complied with the requirements of § 1263.19(a).
(c)
File.
The Bank shall maintain a membership file for each applicant for at least three years after the Bank decides whether to approve or deny membership or, in the case of an appeal to FHFA, for three years after the resolution of the appeal. The membership file shall contain at a minimum:
(1)
Digest.
The digest required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Required documents.
All documents required by §§ 1263.6 to 1263.19, including documents required to establish or rebut a presumption under this part, shall be described in and attached to the digest. The Bank is not required to retain in the file portions of regulatory financial reports that are not relevant to its decision on the membership application. If an applicant's appropriate regulator requires return or destruction of a regulatory examination report, the date that the report is returned or destroyed shall be noted in the file.
(3)
Additional documents.
Any additional document submitted by the applicant, or otherwise obtained or generated by the Bank, concerning the applicant.
(4)
Decision resolution.
The decision resolution described in § 1263.3(b).
[81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25722, June 5, 2017]
§ 1263.3
Decision on application.
(a)
Authority.
FHFA hereby authorizes the Banks to approve or deny all applications for membership, subject
to the requirements of this part. The authority to approve membership applications may be exercised only by a committee of the Bank's board of directors, the Bank president, or a senior officer who reports directly to the Bank president, other than an officer with responsibility for business development.
(b)
Decision resolution.
For each applicant, the Bank shall prepare a written resolution duly adopted by the Bank's board of directors, by a committee of the board of directors, or by an officer with delegated authority to approve membership applications. The decision resolution shall state:
(1) That the statements in the digest are accurate to the best of the Bank's knowledge, and are based on a diligent and comprehensive review of all available information identified in the digest; and
(2) The Bank's decision and the reasons therefor. Decisions to approve an application should state specifically that:
(i) The applicant is authorized under the laws of the United States and the laws of the appropriate State to become a member of, purchase stock in, do business with, and maintain deposits in, the Bank to which the applicant has applied; and
(ii) The applicant meets all of the membership eligibility criteria of the Bank Act and this part.
(c)
Action on applications.
The Bank shall act on an application within 60 calendar days of the date the Bank deems the application to be complete. An application is “complete” when the Bank has obtained all the information required by this part, and any other information the Bank deems necessary, to process the application. If an application that was deemed complete subsequently is deemed incomplete because the Bank determines during the review process that additional information is necessary to process the application, the Bank may suspend the 60-day processing period until the Bank again deems the application to be complete, at which time the processing period shall resume. The Bank shall notify an applicant in writing when it deems the applicant's application to be complete, and shall maintain a copy of the notice in the applicant's membership file. The Bank shall notify an applicant whenever it suspends or resumes the 60-day processing period, and shall maintain a written record of those notifications in the applicant's membership file. Within three business days of a Bank's decision on an application, the Bank shall provide the applicant and FHFA with a copy of the Bank's decision resolution.
[81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25722, June 5, 2017]
§ 1263.4
Automatic membership.
(a)
Automatic membership for certain charter conversions.
An insured depository institution member that converts from one charter type to another automatically shall become a member of the Bank of which the converting institution was a member on the effective date of the conversion, provided that the converted institution continues to be an insured depository institution and the assets of the institution immediately before and immediately after the conversion are not materially different. In such case, all relationships existing between the member and the Bank at the time of such conversion may continue.
(b)
Automatic membership for transfers.
Any member that relocates its principal place of business to another Bank district or that redesignates its principal place of business to another Bank district pursuant to § 1263.18(c) automatically shall become a member of the Bank of that district upon the purchase of the minimum amount of Bank stock required for membership in that Bank, as required by § 1263.20.
(c)
Automatic membership, in the Bank's discretion, for certain consolidations.
(1) If a member institution (or institutions) and a nonmember institution are consolidated, and the consolidated institution has its principal place of business in a State in the same Bank district as the disappearing institution (or institutions), and the consolidated institution will operate under the charter of the nonmember institution, on the effective date of the consolidation, the consolidated institution may, in the discretion of the Bank of which the disappearing institution (or
institutions) was a member immediately prior to the effective date of the consolidation, automatically become a member of such Bank upon the purchase of the minimum amount of Bank stock required for membership in that Bank, as required by § 1263.20, provided that:
(i) 90 percent or more of the consolidated institution's total assets are derived from the total assets of the disappearing member institution (or institutions); and
(ii) The consolidated institution provides written notice to such Bank, within 60 calendar days after the effective date of the consolidation, that it desires to be a member of the Bank.
(2) The provisions of § 1263.24(b)(4)(i) shall apply, and upon approval of automatic membership by the Bank, the provisions of § 1263.24(c) shall apply.
§ 1263.5
Appeals.
(a)
Appeals by applicants.
—(1)
Filing procedure.
Within 90 calendar days of the date of a Bank's decision to deny an application for membership, the applicant may file a written appeal of the decision with FHFA.
(2)
Documents.
The applicant's appeal shall be addressed to the Deputy Director for Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation, Federal Housing Finance Agency, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20219, with a copy to the Bank, and shall include the following documents:
(i)
Bank's decision resolution.
A copy of the Bank's decision resolution; and
(ii)
Basis for appeal.
An applicant must provide a statement of the basis for the appeal with sufficient facts, information, analysis, and explanation to rebut any applicable presumptions, or otherwise to support the applicant's position.
(b)
Record for appeal.
—(1)
Copy of membership file.
Upon receiving a copy of an appeal, the Bank whose action has been appealed (appellee Bank) shall provide FHFA with a copy of the applicant's complete membership file. Until FHFA resolves the appeal, the appellee Bank shall supplement the materials provided to FHFA as any new materials are received.
(2)
Additional information.
FHFA may request additional information or further supporting arguments from the appellant, the appellee Bank, or any other party that FHFA deems appropriate.
(c)
Deciding appeals.
FHFA shall consider the record for appeal described in paragraph (b) of this section and shall resolve the appeal based on the requirements of the Bank Act and this part within 90 calendar days of the date the appeal is filed with FHFA. In deciding the appeal, FHFA shall apply the presumptions in this part, unless the appellant or appellee Bank presents evidence to rebut a presumption as provided in § 1263.17.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements
§ 1263.6
General eligibility requirements.
(a)
Requirements.
Any building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, insurance company, savings bank, community development financial institution (including a CDFI credit union), or insured depository institution shall be eligible for Bank membership if:
(1) It is duly organized under tribal law, or under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(2) It is subject to inspection and regulation under the banking laws, or under similar laws, of any State or of the United States or, in the case of a CDFI, is certified by the CDFI Fund;
(3) It makes long-term home mortgage loans;
(4) Its financial condition is such that advances may be safely made to it;
(5) The character of its management is consistent with sound and economical home financing;
(6) Its home financing policy is consistent with sound and economical home financing; and
(7) It has complied with any applicable requirement of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Additional eligibility requirement for insured depository institutions other than community financial institutions.
In
order to be eligible to become a member of a Bank, an insured depository institution applicant other than a community financial institution also must have at least 10 percent of its total assets in residential mortgage loans.
(c)
Additional eligibility requirement for applicants that are not insured depository institutions.
In order to be eligible to become a member of a Bank, an applicant that is not an insured depository institution also must have mortgage-related assets that reflect a commitment to housing finance, as determined by the Bank in its discretion.
(d)
Ineligibility.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, an institution that does not satisfy the requirements of this part shall be ineligible for membership.
(e)
Treatment of captives previously admitted to membership.
A Bank that admitted one or more captives to membership prior to February 19, 2016 shall wind down its relationship with, and terminate the membership of, each of those captives as provided in this paragraph (e).
(1)
Captives admitted prior to September 12, 2014.
—(i) A Bank shall have until February 19, 2021 to wind down its business transactions with any captive that it had admitted to membership prior to September 12, 2014, notwithstanding the captive's ineligibility for Bank membership. The Bank may make or renew an advance to such a captive only if:
(A) After making or renewing the advance, its total outstanding advances to that captive would not exceed 40 percent of the captive's total assets; and
(B) The new or renewed advance has a maturity date no later than February 19, 2021.
(ii) A Bank shall terminate the membership of any captive described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section no later than February 19, 2021, as provided under § 1263.27. After termination, the Bank shall require the liquidation of any outstanding indebtedness owed by, and the settlement of all other outstanding business transactions with, such terminated captive, and shall redeem or repurchase the Bank stock owned by the captive in accordance with § 1263.29; provided that the Bank may allow the captive to repay any outstanding advance made or last renewed in accordance with the applicable requirements then in effect and having a maturity date later than its date of termination in accordance with its terms and delay the repurchase of any Bank stock held in support of that advance until after the advance has been repaid, in accordance with the Bank's capital plan.
(2)
Captives admitted on or after September 12, 2014.
—(i) A Bank shall have until February 19, 2017 to wind down its business transactions with any captive that it had admitted to membership on or after September 12, 2014, notwithstanding the captive's ineligibility for Bank membership. The Bank shall not make or renew any advance to such a captive.
(ii) A Bank shall terminate the membership of any captive described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section no later than February 19, 2017, as provided under § 1263.27. Upon termination, the Bank shall require the liquidation of any outstanding indebtedness owed by, and the settlement of all other outstanding business transactions with, such terminated captive, and shall redeem or repurchase the Bank stock owned by the captive in accordance with § 1263.29; provided that all advances outstanding to that member must be repaid in full by the termination date.
§ 1263.7
Duly organized requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to be duly organized, as required by section 4(a)(1)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(1)(A)) and § 1263.6(a)(1), if it is chartered by a State or federal agency as a building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, insurance company, savings bank, or insured depository institution or, in the case of a CDFI applicant, is incorporated under State or tribal law.
§ 1263.8
Subject to inspection and regulation requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to be subject to inspection and regulation, as required by section 4(a)(1)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424 (a)(1)(B)) and § 1263.6(a)(2) if, in the case of an insured
depository institution or insurance company applicant, it is subject to inspection and regulation by its appropriate regulator. A CDFI applicant that is certified by the CDFI Fund is not subject to this requirement.
§ 1263.9
Makes long-term home mortgage loans requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to make long-term home mortgage loans, as required by section 4(a)(1)(C) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(1)(C)) and § 1263.6(a)(3), if, based on the applicant's most recent regulatory financial report filed with its appropriate regulator, or other documentation provided to the Bank, in the case of a CDFI applicant that does not file such reports, the applicant originates or purchases long-term home mortgage loans.
§ 1263.10
Ten percent requirement for certain insured depository institution applicants.
An insured depository institution applicant that is subject to the 10 percent requirement of section 4(a)(2)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(A)) and § 1263.6(b) shall be deemed to comply with that requirement if, based on the applicant's most recent regulatory financial report filed with its appropriate regulator, the applicant has at least 10 percent of its total assets in residential mortgage loans, except that any assets used to secure mortgage-backed securities as described in paragraph (5) of the definition of “residential mortgage loan” set forth in § 1263.1 shall not be used to meet this requirement.
§ 1263.11
Financial condition requirement for depository institutions and CDFI credit unions.
(a)
Review requirement.
In determining whether a building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, savings bank, insured depository institution, or CDFI credit union has complied with the financial condition requirements of section 4(a)(2)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(B)) and § 1263.6(a)(4), the Bank shall obtain as a part of the membership application and review each of the following documents:
(1)
Regulatory financial reports.
The regulatory financial reports filed by the applicant with its appropriate regulator for the last six calendar quarters and three year-ends preceding the date the Bank receives the application;
(2)
Financial statement.
In order of preference—
(i) The most recent independent audit of the applicant conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a certified public accounting firm which submits a report on the applicant;
(ii) The most recent independent audit of the applicant's parent holding company conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a certified public accounting firm which submits a report on the consolidated holding company but not on the applicant separately;
(iii) The most recent directors' examination of the applicant conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a certified public accounting firm;
(iv) The most recent directors' examination of the applicant performed by other external auditors;
(v) The most recent review of the applicant's financial statements by external auditors;
(vi) The most recent compilation of the applicant's financial statements by external auditors; or
(vii) The most recent audit of other procedures of the applicant.
(3)
Regulatory examination report.
The applicant's most recent available regulatory examination report prepared by its appropriate regulator, a summary prepared by the Bank of the applicant's strengths and weaknesses as cited in the regulatory examination report, and a summary prepared by the Bank or applicant of actions taken by the applicant to respond to examination weaknesses;
(4)
Enforcement actions.
A description prepared by the Bank or applicant of any outstanding enforcement actions against the applicant, responses by the applicant, reports as required by the enforcement action, and verbal or written indications, if available, from the appropriate regulator of how the applicant is complying with the terms of the enforcement action; and
(5)
Additional information.
Any other relevant document or information concerning the applicant that comes to the Bank's attention in reviewing the applicant's financial condition.
(b)
Standards.
An applicant of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be in compliance with the financial condition requirement of section 4(a)(2)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(B)) and § 1263.6(a)(4), if:
(1)
Recent composite regulatory examination rating.
The applicant has received a composite regulatory examination rating from its appropriate regulator within two years preceding the date the Bank receives the application;
(2)
Capital requirement.
The applicant meets all of its minimum statutory and regulatory capital requirements as reported in its most recent quarter-end regulatory financial report filed with its appropriate regulator; and
(3)
Minimum performance standard
—(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the applicant's most recent composite regulatory examination rating from its appropriate regulator within the past two years was “1”, or the most recent rating was “2” or “3” and, based on the applicant's most recent regulatory financial report filed with its appropriate regulator, the applicant satisfied all of the following performance trend criteria—
(A)
Earnings.
The applicant's adjusted net income was positive in four of the six most recent calendar quarters;
(B)
Nonperforming assets.
The applicant's nonperforming loans and leases plus other real estate owned, did not exceed 10 percent of its total loans and leases plus other real estate owned, in the most recent calendar quarter; and
(C)
Allowance for loan and lease losses.
The applicant's ratio of its allowance for loan and lease losses plus the allocated transfer risk reserve to nonperforming loans and leases was 60 percent or greater during four of the six most recent calendar quarters.
(ii) For applicants that are not required to report financial data to their appropriate regulator on a quarterly basis, the information required in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may be reported on a semi-annual basis.
(iii) An applicant that is a CDFI credit union or a non-federally-insured credit union must meet the performance trend criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section irrespective of its composite regulatory examination rating.
(c)
Eligible collateral not considered.
The availability of sufficient eligible collateral to secure advances to the applicant is presumed and shall not be considered in determining whether an applicant is in the financial condition required by section 4(a)(2)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(B)) and § 1263.6(a)(4).
[81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25722, June 5, 2017]
§ 1263.12
Character of management requirement.
(a)
General.
A building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, savings bank, insured depository institution, insurance company, and CDFI credit union shall be deemed to be in compliance with the character of management requirements of section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(C)) and § 1263.6(a)(5) if the applicant provides to the Bank an unqualified written certification duly adopted by the applicant's board of directors, or by an individual with authority to act on behalf of the applicant's board of directors, that:
(1)
Enforcement actions.
Neither the applicant nor any of its directors or senior officers is subject to, or operating under, any enforcement action instituted by its appropriate regulator;
(2)
Criminal, civil or administrative proceedings.
Neither the applicant nor any of its directors or senior officers has been the subject of any criminal, civil or administrative proceedings reflecting upon creditworthiness, business judgment, or moral turpitude since the most recent regulatory examination report; and
(3)
Criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, lawsuits or judgments.
There are no known potential criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, material pending lawsuits, or unsatisfied judgments against
the applicant or any of its directors or senior officers since the most recent regulatory examination report, that are significant to the applicant's operations.
(b)
CDFIs other than CDFI credit unions.
A CDFI applicant, other than a CDFI credit union, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the character of management requirement of § 1263.6(a)(5), if the applicant provides an unqualified written certification duly adopted by the applicant's board of directors, or by an individual with authority to act on behalf of the applicant's board of directors, that:
(1)
Criminal, civil or administrative proceedings.
Neither the applicant nor any of its directors or senior officers has been the subject of any criminal, civil or administrative proceedings reflecting upon creditworthiness, business judgment, or moral turpitude in the past three years; and
(2)
Criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, lawsuits or judgments.
There are no known potential criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, material pending lawsuits, or unsatisfied judgments against the applicant or any of its directors or senior officers arising within the past three years that are significant to the applicant's operations.
§ 1263.13
Home financing policy requirement.
(a)
Standard.
An applicant shall be deemed to be in compliance with the home financing policy requirements of section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(C)) and § 1263.6(a)(6), if the applicant has received a CRA rating of “Satisfactory” or better on its most recent CRA performance evaluation.
(b)
Written justification required.
An applicant that is not subject to the CRA shall file, as part of its application for membership, a written justification acceptable to the Bank of how and why the applicant's home financing policy is consistent with the Bank System's housing finance mission.
§ 1263.14
De novo insured depository institution applicants.
(a)
Presumptive compliance.
A de novo insured depository institution applicant shall be deemed to meet the duly organized, subject to inspection and regulation, financial condition, and character of management requirements of §§ 1263.7, 1263.8, 1263.11 and 1263.12, respectively.
(b)
Makes long-term home mortgage loans requirement.
A de novo insured depository institution applicant shall be deemed to make long-term home mortgage loans, as required by section 4(a)(1)(C) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(1)(C)) and § 1263.6(a)(3), if it has filed as part of its application for membership a written justification acceptable to the Bank of how its home financing credit policy and lending practices will include originating or purchasing long-term home mortgage loans.
(c)
10 percent requirement.
—(1)
Conditional approval.
If a de novo insured depository institution applicant that commenced its initial business operations less than one year before applying for Bank membership is subject to, but cannot yet meet, the 10 percent requirement of section 4(a)(2)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(A)) and § 1263.6(b) as provided in § 1263.10, a Bank may conditionally approve that applicant for membership if it meets all other applicable requirements.
(2)
Approval may become final.
If, within one year after commencement of its initial business operations, an institution that was conditionally approved for membership under paragraph (c)(1) of this section supplies evidence acceptable to the Bank that it satisfies the 10 percent requirement as provided under § 1263.10, its membership approval shall become final.
(3)
Approval may become void.
If an institution that was conditionally approved for membership under paragraph (c)(1) does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, it shall be deemed to be out of compliance with the 10 percent requirement, and its conditional membership approval shall become void.
(d)
Home financing policy requirement.
—(1)
Conditional approval.
If a de
novo insured depository institution applicant cannot meet the home financing policy requirement of section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(C)) and § 1263.6(a)(6) as provided under § 1263.13 because it has not received its first CRA performance evaluation, a Bank may conditionally approve that applicant for membership if it meets all other applicable requirements and has included in its application a written justification acceptable to the Bank of how and why its home financing credit policy and lending practices will meet the credit needs of its community.
(2)
Approval may become final.
If an institution that was conditionally approved for membership under paragraph (d)(1) of this section supplies evidence acceptable to the Bank that it has satisfied the home financing policy requirement as provided under § 1263.13 by receiving a CRA rating of “Satisfactory” or better on its first CRA performance evaluation, its membership approval shall cease to be conditional.
(3)
Approval may become void.
If an institution that was conditionally approved for membership under paragraph (d)(1) of this section receives a rating of “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Non-Compliance” on its first CRA performance evaluation, and fails to rebut the presumption of non-compliance with the home financing policy requirement as provided under § 1263.17(f), it shall be deemed to be out of compliance with that requirement and its conditional membership approval shall become void.
(e)
Other rules.
An institution that has been conditionally approved for membership under paragraph (c)(1) or (d)(1) of this section shall be subject to all regulations applicable to members generally, including those relating to stock purchase requirements and or collateral, notwithstanding that its membership may be conditional for some period of time. If an institution's conditional membership approval becomes void as provided in paragraphs (c)(3) or (d)(3) of this section, then the Bank shall liquidate any outstanding indebtedness owed by the institution to the Bank and redeem or repurchase its capital stock in accordance with § 1263.29.
§ 1263.15
Recently consolidated applicants.
An applicant that has recently consolidated with another institution is subject to the requirements of §§ 1263.7 to 1263.13 except as provided in this section.
(a)
Financial condition requirement.
For purposes of § 1263.11(a)(1) and 1263.11(b)(3)(i)(A), a recently consolidated applicant that has not yet filed regulatory financial reports as a consolidated entity for six quarters or three calendar year-ends shall provide to the Bank:
(1) All regulatory financial reports that the applicant has filed as a consolidated entity; and
(2)
Pro forma
combined financial statements for those quarters for which actual combined regulatory financial reports are unavailable.
(b)
Home financing policy requirement.
For purposes of § 1263.13, a recently consolidated applicant that has not yet received its first CRA performance evaluation as a consolidated entity shall file as part of its application a written justification acceptable to the Bank of how and why the applicant's home financing credit policy and lending practices will meet the credit needs of its community.
(c)
Makes long-term home mortgage loans requirement; 10 percent requirement.
For purposes of determining compliance with §§ 1263.9 and 1263.10, a Bank may, in its discretion, permit a recently consolidated applicant that has not yet filed a regulatory financial report as a consolidated entity to provide the
pro forma
financial statement for the consolidated entity that the consolidating entities filed with the regulator that approved the consolidation.
§ 1263.16
Financial condition requirement for insurance company and certain CDFI applicants.
(a)
Insurance companies.
—(1) An insurance company applicant shall be deemed to meet the financial condition requirement of § 1263.6(a)(4) if the Bank determines:
(i) Based on the information contained in the applicant's most recent regulatory financial report filed with
its appropriate regulator, that the applicant meets all of its minimum statutory and regulatory capital requirements and the capital standards established by the NAIC; and
(ii) Based on the applicant's most recent audited financial statements, that the applicant's financial condition is such that the Bank can safely make advances to it.
(2) In making the determination required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the Bank shall use audited financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if they are available. If they are not available, the Bank may use audited financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting principles.
(b)
CDFIs other than CDFI credit unions.
—(1)
Review requirement.
In order for a Bank to determine whether a CDFI applicant, other than a CDFI credit union, has complied with the financial condition requirement of § 1263.6(a)(4), the applicant shall submit, as a part of its membership application, each of the following documents, and the Bank shall consider all such information prior to acting on the application for membership:
(i)
Financial statements.
An independent audit conducted within the prior year in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a certified public accounting firm, plus more recent quarterly statements, if available, and financial statements for the two years prior to the most recent audited financial statement. At a minimum, all such financial statements must include income and expense statements, statements of activities, statements of financial position, and statements of cash flows. The financial statement for the most recent year must include separate schedules or disclosures of the financial position of each of the applicant's affiliates, descriptions of their lines of business, detailed financial disclosures of the relationship between the applicant and its affiliates (such as indebtedness or subordinate debt obligations), disclosures of interlocking directorships with each affiliate, and identification of temporary and permanently restricted funds and the requirements of these restrictions;
(ii)
CDFI Fund certification.
The certification that the applicant has received from the CDFI Fund. If the certification is more than three years old, the applicant must also submit a written statement attesting that there have been no material events or occurrences since the date of certification that would adversely affect its strategic direction, mission, or business operations; and
(iii)
Additional information.
Any other relevant document or information a Bank requests concerning the applicant's financial condition that is not contained in the applicant's financial statements, as well as any other information that the applicant believes demonstrates that it satisfies the financial condition requirement of § 1263.6(a)(4), notwithstanding its failure to meet any of the financial condition standards of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)
Standards.
A CDFI applicant, other than a CDFI credit union, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the financial condition requirement of § 1263.6(a)(4) if it meets all of the following minimum financial standards—
(i)
Net asset ratio.
The applicant's ratio of net assets to total assets is at least 20 percent, with net and total assets including restricted assets, where net assets is calculated as the residual value of assets over liabilities and is based on information derived from the applicant's most recent financial statements;
(ii)
Earnings.
The applicant has shown positive net income, where net income is calculated as gross revenues less total expenses, is based on information derived from the applicant's most recent financial statements, and is measured as a rolling three-year average;
(iii)
Loan loss reserves.
The applicant's ratio of loan loss reserves to loans and leases 90 days or more delinquent (including loans sold with full recourse) is at least 30 percent, where loan loss reserves are a specified balance sheet account that reflects the amount reserved for loans expected to
be uncollectible and are based on information derived from the applicant's most recent financial statements;
(iv)
Liquidity.
The applicant has an operating liquidity ratio of at least 1.0 for the four most recent quarters, and for one or both of the two preceding years, where the numerator of the ratio includes unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and the denominator of the ratio is the average quarterly operating expense.
§ 1263.17
Rebuttable presumptions.
(a)
Rebutting presumptive compliance.
The presumption that an applicant meeting the requirements of §§ 1263.7 to 1263.16 is in compliance with the corresponding eligibility requirements of section 4(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)) and § 1263.6(a) and (b), may be rebutted, and the Bank may deny membership to an applicant, if the Bank obtains substantial evidence to overcome the presumption of compliance.
(b)
Rebutting presumptive noncompliance.
The presumption that an applicant not meeting a particular requirement of §§ 1263.8, 1263.11, 1263.12, 1263.13, or 1263.16, is not in compliance with the corresponding eligibility requirement of section 4(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)) and § 1263.6(a) may be rebutted and the applicant shall be deemed to be in compliance with an eligibility requirement, if it satisfies the applicable requirements in this section.
(c)
Presumptive noncompliance by insurance company applicant with “subject to inspection and regulation” requirement of § 1263.8.
If an insurance company applicant is not subject to inspection and regulation by an appropriate State regulator accredited by the NAIC, as required by § 1263.8, the applicant or the Bank shall prepare a written justification that provides substantial evidence acceptable to the Bank that the applicant is subject to inspection and regulation as required by § 1263.6(a)(2), notwithstanding the regulator's lack of NAIC accreditation.
(d)
Presumptive noncompliance with financial condition requirements of §§ 1263.11 and 1263.16
—(1)
Applicants subject to § 1263.11.
For applicants subject to § 1263.11, in the case of an applicant's lack of a composite regulatory examination rating within the two-year period required by § 1263.11(b)(1), a variance from the rating required by § 1263.11(b)(3)(i), or a variance from a performance trend criterion required by § 1263.11(b)(3)(i), the applicant or the Bank shall prepare a written justification pertaining to such requirement that provides substantial evidence acceptable to the Bank that the applicant is in the financial condition required by § 1263.6(a)(4), notwithstanding the lack of rating or variance.
(2)
Applicants subject to § 1263.16.
For applicants subject to § 1263.16, in the case of an insurance company applicant's variance from a capital requirement or standard of § 1263.16(a) or, in the case of a CDFI applicant's variance from the standards of § 1263.16(b), the applicant or the Bank shall prepare a written justification pertaining to such requirement or standard that provides substantial evidence acceptable to the Bank that the applicant is in the financial condition required by § 1263.6(a)(4), notwithstanding the variance.
(e)
Presumptive noncompliance with character of management requirement of § 1263.12
—(1)
Enforcement actions.
If an applicant or any of its directors or senior officers is subject to, or operating under, any enforcement action instituted by its appropriate regulator, the applicant shall provide or the Bank shall obtain:
(i)
Regulator confirmation.
Written or verbal confirmation from the applicant's appropriate regulator that the applicant or its directors or senior officers are in substantial compliance with all aspects of the enforcement action; or
(ii)
Written analysis.
A written analysis acceptable to the Bank indicating that the applicant or its directors or senior officers are in substantial compliance with all aspects of the enforcement action. The written analysis shall state each action the applicant or its directors or senior officers are required to take by the enforcement action, the actions actually taken by the applicant or its directors or senior officers, and whether the applicant regards this as substantial compliance with all aspects of the enforcement action.
(2)
Criminal, civil or administrative proceedings.
If an applicant or any of its directors or senior officers has been the subject of any criminal, civil or administrative proceedings reflecting upon creditworthiness, business judgment, or moral turpitude since the most recent regulatory examination report or, in the case of a CDFI applicant, during the past three years, the applicant shall provide or the Bank shall obtain—
(i)
Regulator confirmation.
Written or verbal confirmation from the applicant's appropriate regulator that the proceedings will not likely result in an enforcement action; or
(ii)
Written analysis.
A written analysis acceptable to the Bank indicating that the proceedings will not likely result in an enforcement action or, in the case of a CDFI applicant, that the proceedings will not likely have a significantly deleterious effect on the applicant's operations. The written analysis shall state the severity of the charges, and any mitigating action taken by the applicant or its directors or senior officers.
(3)
Criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, lawsuits or judgments.
If there are any known potential criminal, civil or administrative monetary liabilities, material pending lawsuits, or unsatisfied judgments against the applicant or any of its directors or senior officers since the most recent regulatory examination report or, in the case of a CDFI applicant, occurring within the past three years, that are significant to the applicant's operations, the applicant shall provide or the Bank shall obtain—
(i)
Regulator confirmation.
Written or verbal confirmation from the applicant's appropriate regulator that the liabilities, lawsuits or judgments will not likely cause the applicant to fall below its applicable capital requirements set forth in §§ 1263.11(b)(2) and 1263.16(a); or
(ii)
Written analysis.
A written analysis acceptable to the Bank indicating that the liabilities, lawsuits or judgments will not likely cause the applicant to fall below its applicable capital requirements set forth in § 1263.11(b)(2) or § 1263.16(a), or the net asset ratio set forth in § 1263.16(b)(2)(i). The written analysis shall state the likelihood of the applicant or its directors or senior officers prevailing, and the financial consequences if the applicant or its directors or senior officers do not prevail.
(f)
Presumptive noncompliance with home financing policy requirements of §§ 1263.13 and 1263.14(d).
If an applicant received a “Substantial Non-Compliance” rating on its most recent CRA performance evaluation, or a “Needs to Improve” CRA rating on its most recent CRA performance evaluation and a CRA rating of “Needs to Improve” or better on any immediately preceding formal CRA performance evaluation, the applicant shall provide or the Bank shall obtain:
(1)
Regulator confirmation.
Written or verbal confirmation from the applicant's appropriate regulator of the applicant's recent satisfactory CRA performance, including any corrective action that substantially improved upon the deficiencies cited in the most recent CRA performance evaluation(s); or
(2)
Written analysis.
A written analysis acceptable to the Bank demonstrating that the CRA rating is unrelated to home financing, and providing substantial evidence of how and why the applicant's home financing credit policy and lending practices meet the credit needs of its community.
§ 1263.18
Determination of appropriate Bank district for membership.
(a)
Eligibility.
(1) An institution eligible to be a member of a Bank under the Bank Act and this part may be a member only of the Bank of the district in which the institution's principal place of business is located, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A member shall promptly notify its Bank in writing whenever it relocates its principal place of business to another State and the Bank shall inform FHFA in writing of any such relocation.
(2) An institution eligible to become a member of a Bank under the Bank Act and this part may be a member of the Bank of a district adjoining the district in which the institution's principal place of business is located, if demanded by convenience and then only with the approval of FHFA.
(b)
Principal place of business.
Except as otherwise designated in accordance with this section, the principal place of business of an institution is the State in which the institution maintains its home office established as such in conformity with the laws under which the institution is organized and from which the institution conducts business operations.
(c)
Designation of principal place of business
—(1) A member or an applicant for membership may request in writing to the Bank in the district where the institution maintains its home office that a State other than the State in which it maintains its home office be designated as its principal place of business. Within 90 calendar days of receipt of such written request, the board of directors of the Bank in the district where the institution maintains its home office shall designate a State other than the State where the institution maintains its home office as the institution's principal place of business, provided that, all of the following criteria are satisfied:
(i) At least 80 percent of the institution's accounting books, records, and ledgers are maintained, located or held in such designated State;
(ii) A majority of meetings of the institution's board of directors and constituent committees are conducted in such designated State; and
(iii) A majority of the institution's five highest paid officers have their place of employment located in such designated State.
(2) Written notice of a designation made pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be sent to the Bank in the district containing the designated State, FHFA, and the institution.
(3) The notice of designation made pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall include the State designated as the principal place of business and the Bank of which the subject institution is eligible to be a member.
(4) If the board of directors of the Bank in the district where the institution maintains its home office fails to make the designation requested by the member or applicant pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the member or applicant may request in writing that FHFA make the designation.
(d)
Transfer of membership.
(1) In the case of a member whose principal place of business has been designated as a State located in another Bank district in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or in the case of a member that has relocated its principal place of business to a State in another Bank district, the transfer of membership from one Bank to another Bank shall not take effect until the Banks involved reach an agreement on a method of orderly transfer.
(2) In the event that the Banks involved fail to agree on a method of orderly transfer, FHFA shall determine the conditions under which the transfer shall take place.
(e)
Effect of transfer.
A transfer of membership pursuant to this section shall be effective for all purposes, but shall not affect voting rights in the year of the transfer and shall not be subject to the provisions on termination of membership set forth in section 6 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426) or §§ 1263.26 and 1263.27, nor the restriction on reacquiring Bank membership set forth in § 1263.30.
(f)
Insurance companies and CDFIs.
(1) For an insurance company or CDFI that cannot satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section for designating its principal place of business, a Bank shall designate as the principal place of business the geographic location from which the institution actually conducts the predominant portion of its business activities.
(2) A Bank may deem an institution to conduct the predominant portion of its business activities in a particular State if any two of the following three factors are present:
(i) The institution's largest office, as measured by the number of employees, is located in that State;
(ii) A plurality of the institution's employees are located in that State; or
(iii) The places of employment for a plurality of the institution's senior executives are located in that State.
(3) If a Bank cannot designate a State as the principal place of business under paragraph (f)(1) of this section,
and cannot otherwise identify a geographic location from which the institution actually conducts the predominant portion of its business activities, it shall designate the State of domicile or incorporation as the principal place of business for that institution.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the term “senior executive” means all officers at or above the level of “senior vice president” and includes the positions of president, executive vice president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, general counsel, as well as any individuals who perform functions similar to those positions whether or not the individual has an official title.
(g)
Records.
A Bank designating the principal place of business for a member under this section shall document the bases for its determination in writing and shall include that documentation in the membership digest and application file for the institution that are required under § 1263.2.
§ 1263.19
Non-federally-insured credit unions.
(a)
Applicants.
Except where otherwise provided, a non-federally-insured credit union applying to become a member of a Bank shall be treated as an insured depository institution for purposes of determining its eligibility for membership under this part, provided that all of the following requirements have been met:
(1)
Notice.
Upon receiving from a non-federally-insured credit union an application for membership, a Bank shall promptly notify the applicant in writing that its application will not be deemed complete or be acted upon by the Bank until the applicant has, in addition to satisfying all other generally applicable requirements, complied with paragraph (a)(2) of this section and subsequently provided one of the items listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2)
Request to regulator.
After receiving the notice required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a non-federally-insured credit union applicant shall send to its appropriate State regulator a written request for a determination that the applicant met all of the eligibility requirements for Federal share insurance as of the date of the request. The applicant shall provide to the Bank a copy of that request simultaneously with its transmittal to the regulator.
(3)
Completion of application.
A Bank may deem the application of a non-federally-insured credit union to be complete and may act upon the application, as provided under § 1263.3(c), only if it has received from the applicant one of the following items:
(i) A written statement from the applicant's appropriate State regulator that the applicant met all of the eligibility requirements for Federal share insurance as of the date of the request sent pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(ii) A written statement from the applicant's appropriate State regulator that it cannot or will not make a determination regarding the applicant's eligibility for Federal share insurance; or
(iii) A written statement from the applicant, prepared no earlier than the end of the six-month period beginning on the date of the request sent pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, certifying that the applicant did not receive from its appropriate State regulator within that six-month period either a response as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section or a response stating that the applicant did not meet all of the eligibility requirements for Federal share insurance as of the date of the request sent pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Members canceling Federal share insurance.
A Bank member that is a federally insured credit union and that subsequently cancels its Federal share insurance may remain a member of the Bank, subject to all regulatory provisions applicable to insured depository institution members, provided that the Bank has determined that the institution has canceled its Federal share insurance voluntarily.
[82 FR 25723, June 5, 2017]

# Subpart D—Stock Requirements
§ 1263.20
Stock purchase.
(a)
Minimum purchase requirement.
An institution that has been approved for membership in a Bank as provided in this part shall become a member of that Bank upon purchasing the amount of stock required under the membership stock purchase provisions of that Bank's capital structure plan. If an institution fails to purchase the minimum amount of stock required for membership within 60 calendar days after the date on which it is approved for membership, the membership approval shall become void and that institution may not become a member of that Bank until after it has filed a new application and the Bank has approved that application pursuant to the requirements of this part.
(b)
Issuance of stock.
After approving an institution for membership, and in return for payment in full of the par value, a Bank shall issue to that institution the amount of capital stock required to be purchased under the Bank's capital structure plan.
(c)
Reports.
Each Bank shall report to FHFA information regarding the minimum investment in Bank capital stock made by each new member referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with the instructions provided in the Data Reporting Manual.
§ 1263.21
[Reserved]
§ 1263.22
Annual calculation of stock holdings.
A Bank shall calculate annually each member's required minimum holdings of Bank stock using calendar year-end financial data provided by the member to the Bank, pursuant to § 1263.31(d), and shall notify each member of the result. The notice shall clearly state that the Bank's calculation of each member's minimum stock holdings is to be used to determine the number of votes that the member may cast in that year's election of directors and shall identify the State within the district in which the member will vote. A member that does not agree with the Bank's calculation of the minimum stock purchase requirement or with the identification of its voting State may request FHFA to review the Bank's determination. FHFA shall promptly determine the member's minimum required holdings and its proper voting State, which determination shall be final.
§ 1263.23
Excess stock.
(a)
Sale of excess stock.
Subject to the restriction in paragraph (b) of this section, a member may purchase excess stock as long as the purchase is approved by the member's Bank and is permitted by the laws under which the member operates.
(b)
Restriction.
Any Bank with excess stock greater than one percent of its total assets shall not declare or pay any dividends in the form of additional shares of Bank stock or otherwise issue any excess stock. A Bank shall not issue excess stock, as a dividend or otherwise, if after the issuance, the outstanding excess stock at the Bank would be greater than one percent of its total assets.

# Subpart E—Withdrawal, Termination and Readmission
§ 1263.24
Consolidations involving members.
(a)
Consolidation of members.
Upon the consolidation of two or more institutions that are members of the same Bank into one institution operating under the charter of one of the consolidating institutions, the membership of the surviving institution shall continue and the membership of each disappearing institution shall terminate on the cancellation of its charter. Upon the consolidation of two or more institutions, at least two of which are members of different Banks, into one institution operating under the charter of one of the consolidating institutions, the membership of the surviving institution shall continue and the membership of each disappearing institution shall terminate upon cancellation of its charter, provided, however, that if more than 80 percent of the assets of the consolidated institution are derived from the assets of a disappearing
institution, then the consolidated institution shall continue to be a member of the Bank of which that disappearing institution was a member prior to the consolidation, and the membership of the other institutions shall terminate upon the effective date of the consolidation.
(b)
Consolidation into nonmember
—(1)
In general.
Upon the consolidation of a member into an institution that is not a member of a Bank, where the consolidated institution operates under the charter of the nonmember institution, the membership of the disappearing institution shall terminate upon the cancellation of its charter.
(2)
Notification.
If a member has consolidated into a nonmember that has its principal place of business in a State in the same Bank district as the former member, the consolidated institution shall have 60 calendar days after the cancellation of the charter of the former member within which to notify the Bank of the former member that the consolidated institution intends to apply for membership in such Bank. If the consolidated institution does not so notify the Bank by the end of the period, the Bank shall require the liquidation of any outstanding indebtedness owed by the former member, shall settle all outstanding business transactions with the former member, and shall redeem or repurchase the Bank stock owned by the former member in accordance with § 1263.29.
(3)
Application.
If such a consolidated institution has notified the appropriate Bank of its intent to apply for membership, the consolidated institution shall submit an application for membership within 60 calendar days of so notifying the Bank. If the consolidated institution does not submit an application for membership by the end of the period, the Bank shall require the liquidation of any outstanding indebtedness owed by the former member, shall settle all outstanding business transactions with the former member, and shall redeem or repurchase the Bank stock owned by the former member in accordance with § 1263.29.
(4)
Outstanding indebtedness.
If a member has consolidated into a nonmember institution, the Bank need not require the former member or its successor to liquidate any outstanding indebtedness owed to the Bank or to redeem its Bank stock, as otherwise may be required under § 1263.29, during:
(i) The initial 60 calendar-day notification period;
(ii) The 60 calendar-day period following receipt of a notification that the consolidated institution intends to apply for membership; and
(iii) The period of time during which the Bank processes the application for membership.
(5)
Approval of membership.
If the application of such a consolidated institution is approved, the consolidated institution shall become a member of that Bank upon the purchase of the amount of Bank stock necessary, when combined with any Bank stock acquired from the disappearing member, to satisfy the minimum stock purchase requirements established by the Bank's capital structure plan.
(6)
Disapproval of membership.
If the Bank disapproves the application for membership of the consolidated institution, the Bank shall require the liquidation of any outstanding indebtedness owed by, and the settlement of all other outstanding business transactions with, the former member, and shall redeem or repurchase the Bank stock owned by the former member in accordance with § 1263.29.
(c)
Dividends on acquired Bank stock.
A consolidated institution shall be entitled to receive dividends on the Bank stock that it acquires as a result of a consolidation with a member in accordance with applicable FHFA regulations.
§ 1263.25
[Reserved]
§ 1263.26
Voluntary withdrawal from membership.
(a)
In general
—(1) Any institution may withdraw from membership by providing to the Bank written notice of its intent to withdraw from membership. A member that has so notified its Bank shall be entitled to have continued access to the benefits of membership until the effective date of its withdrawal. The Bank need not commit to providing any further services, including advances, to a withdrawing member that would mature or otherwise
terminate subsequent to the effective date of the withdrawal. A member may cancel its notice of withdrawal at any time prior to its effective date by providing a written cancellation notice to the Bank. A Bank may impose a fee on a member that cancels a notice of withdrawal, provided that the fee or the manner of its calculation is specified in the Bank's capital plan.
(2) A Bank shall notify FHFA within 10 calendar days of receipt of any notice of withdrawal or notice of cancellation of withdrawal from membership.
(b)
Effective date of withdrawal.
The membership of an institution that has submitted a notice of withdrawal shall terminate as of the date on which the last of the applicable stock redemption periods ends for the stock that the member is required to hold, as of the date that the notice of withdrawal is submitted, under the terms of a Bank's capital plan as a condition of membership, unless the institution has cancelled its notice of withdrawal prior to the effective date of the termination of its membership.
(c)
Stock redemption periods.
The receipt by a Bank of a notice of withdrawal shall commence the applicable 6-month and 5-year stock redemption periods, respectively, for all of the Class A and Class B stock held by that member that is not already subject to a pending request for redemption. In the case of an institution, the membership of which has been terminated as a result of a merger or other consolidation into a nonmember or into a member of another Bank, the applicable stock redemption periods for any stock that is not subject to a pending notice of redemption shall be deemed to commence on the date on which the charter of the former member is cancelled.
§ 1263.27
Involuntary termination of membership.
(a)
Grounds.
The board of directors of a Bank may terminate the membership of any institution that:
(1) Fails to comply with any requirement of the Bank Act, any regulation adopted by FHFA, or any requirement of the Bank's capital plan;
(2) Becomes insolvent or otherwise subject to the appointment of a conservator, receiver, or other legal custodian under federal or State law; or
(3) Would jeopardize the safety or soundness of the Bank if it were to remain a member.
(b)
Stock redemption periods.
The applicable 6-month and 5-year stock redemption periods, respectively, for all of the Class A and Class B stock owned by a member and not already subject to a pending request for redemption, shall commence on the date that the Bank terminates the institution's membership.
(c)
Membership rights.
An institution whose membership is terminated involuntarily under this section shall cease being a member as of the date on which the board of directors of the Bank acts to terminate the membership, and the institution shall have no right to obtain any of the benefits of membership after that date, but shall be entitled to receive any dividends declared on its stock until the stock is redeemed or repurchased by the Bank.
§ 1263.28
[Reserved]
§ 1263.29
Disposition of claims.
(a)
In general.
If an institution withdraws from membership or its membership is otherwise terminated, the Bank shall determine an orderly manner for liquidating all outstanding indebtedness owed by that member to the Bank and for settling all other claims against the member. After all such obligations and claims have been extinguished or settled, the Bank shall return to the member all collateral pledged by the member to the Bank to secure its obligations to the Bank.
(b)
Bank stock.
If an institution that has withdrawn from membership or that otherwise has had its membership terminated remains indebted to the Bank or has outstanding any business transactions with the Bank after the effective date of its termination of membership, the Bank shall not redeem or repurchase any Bank stock that is required to support the indebtedness or the business transactions until after all such indebtedness and business transactions have been extinguished or settled.
§ 1263.30
Readmission to membership.
(a)
In general.
An institution that has withdrawn from membership or otherwise has had its membership terminated and which has divested all of its shares of Bank stock, may not be readmitted to membership in any Bank, or acquire any capital stock of any Bank, for a period of five years from the date on which its membership terminated and it divested all of its shares of Bank stock.
(b)
Exceptions.
An institution that transfers membership between two Banks without interruption shall not be deemed to have withdrawn from Bank membership or had its membership terminated.

# Subpart F—Other Membership Provisions
§ 1263.31
Reports and examinations.
As a condition precedent to Bank membership, each member:
(a) Consents to such examinations as the Bank or FHFA may require for purposes of the Bank Act;
(b) Agrees that reports of examination by local, State, or Federal agencies or institutions, or by any private entity providing share insurance to a member that is a non-federally-insured credit union or a CDFI credit union, may be furnished by such authorities or entities to the Bank or FHFA upon request;
(c) Agrees to give the Bank or the appropriate Federal banking agency, upon request, such information as the Bank or the appropriate Federal banking agency may need to compile and publish cost of funds indices and to publish other reports or statistical summaries pertaining to the activities of Bank members;
(d) Agrees to provide the Bank with calendar year-end financial data each year, for purposes of making the calculation described in § 1263.22; and
(e) To the extent applicable, agrees to provide to the Bank, within 20 days of filing, copies of reports of condition and operations required to be filed with:
(1) The member's appropriate Federal banking agency;
(2) The member's appropriate State regulator; or
(3) Any private entity providing share insurance to a member that is a non-federally-insured credit union or a CDFI credit union.
[81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25723, June 5, 2017]
§ 1263.32
Official membership insignia.
Members may display the approved insignia of membership on their documents, advertising and quarters, and likewise use the words “Member Federal Home Loan Bank System.”
Pt. 1264

# PART 1264—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK HOUSING ASSOCIATES
Sec.
1264.1
Definitions.
1264.2
Bank authority to make advances to housing associates.
1264.3
Housing associate eligibility requirements.
1264.4
Satisfaction of eligibility requirements.
1264.5
Housing associate application process.
1264.6
Appeals.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430b, 4511, 4513 and 4526.

# Source:
65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1264 appear at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013.
§ 1264.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Governmental agency
means the governor, legislature, and any other component of a federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaskan native village government with authority to act for or on behalf of that government.
State housing finance agency
or
SHFA
means:
(1) A public agency, authority, or publicly sponsored corporation that serves as an instrumentality of any state or political subdivision of any state, and functions as a source of residential mortgage loan financing in that state; or
(2) A legally established agency, authority, corporation, or organization that serves as an instrumentality of any Indian tribe, band, group, nation,
community, or Alaskan Native village recognized by the United States or any state, and functions as a source of residential mortgage loan financing for the Indian or Alaskan Native community.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12849, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013]
§ 1264.2
Bank authority to make advances to housing associates.
Subject to the provisions of the Bank Act and part 1266 of this chapter, a Bank may make advances to an entity that is not a member of the Bank if the Bank has certified the entity as a housing associate under the provisions of this part.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1264.3
Housing associate eligibility requirements.
(a)
General.
A Bank may certify as a housing associate any applicant that meets the following requirements, as determined using the criteria set forth in § 1264.4:
(1) The applicant is approved under title II of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707,
et seq.
);
(2) The applicant is a chartered institution having succession;
(3) The applicant is subject to the inspection and supervision of some governmental agency;
(4) The principal activity of the applicant in the mortgage field consists of lending its own funds; and
(5) The financial condition of the applicant is such that advances may be safely made to it.
(b)
State housing finance agencies.
In addition to meeting the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, any applicant seeking access to advances as a SHFA pursuant to § 1266.17(b)(2) of this chapter shall provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a copy of, or a citation to, the statutes and/or regulations describing the applicant's structure and responsibilities, that the applicant is a state housing finance agency as defined in § 1264.1.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76622, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 1264.4
Satisfaction of eligibility requirements.
(a)
HUD approval requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to meet the requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(1) that it be approved under title II of the National Housing Act if it submits a current HUD Yearly Verification Report or other documentation issued by HUD stating that the Federal Housing Administration of HUD has approved the applicant as a mortgagee.
(b)
Charter requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to meet the requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Actand § 1264.3(a)(2) that it be a chartered institution having succession if it provides evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a copy of, or a citation to, the statutes and/or regulations under which the applicant was created, that:
(1) The applicant is a government agency; or
(2) The applicant is chartered under state, federal, local, tribal, or Alaskan Native village law as a corporation or other entity that has rights, characteristics, and powers under applicable law similar to those granted a corporation.
(c)
Inspection and supervision requirement.
(1) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the inspection and supervision requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(3) if it provides evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a copy of, or a citation to, relevant statutes and/or regulations, that, pursuant to statute or regulation, the applicant is subject to the inspection and supervision of a federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaskan native village governmental agency.
(2) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the inspection requirement if there is a statutory or regulatory requirement that the applicant be audited or examined periodically by a governmental agency or by an external auditor.
(3) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the supervision requirement if the governmental agency has statutory or regulatory authority to remove an applicant's officers or directors for
cause or otherwise exercise enforcement or administrative control over actions of the applicant.
(d)
Mortgage activity requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to meet the mortgage activity requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(4) if it provides documentary evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a financial statement or other financial documents that include the applicant's mortgage loan assets and their funding liabilities, that it lends its own funds as its principal activity in the mortgage field. For purposes of this paragraph, lending funds includes, but is not limited to, the purchase of whole mortgage loans. In the case of a federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaskan Native village government agency, appropriated funds shall be considered an applicant's own funds. An applicant shall be deemed to satisfy this requirement notwithstanding that the majority of its operations are unrelated to mortgage lending if its mortgage activity conforms to this requirement. An applicant that acts principally as a broker for others making mortgage loans, or whose principal activity is to make mortgage loans for the account of others, does not meet this requirement.
(e)
Financial condition requirement.
An applicant shall be deemed to meet the financial condition requirement in § 1264.3(a)(5) if the Bank determines that advances may be safely made to the applicant. The applicant shall submit to the Bank copies of its most recent regulatory audit or examination report, or external audit report, and any other documentary evidence, such as financial or other information, that the Bank may require to make the determination.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12849, Mar. 20, 2002; 70 FR 9510, Feb. 28, 2005; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010]
§ 1264.5
Housing associate application process.
(a)
Authority.
The Banks are authorized to approve or deny all applications for certification as a housing associate, subject to the requirements of the Bank Act and this part. A Bank may delegate the authority to approve applications for certification as a housing associate only to a committee of the Bank's board of directors, the Bank president, or a senior officer who reports directly to the Bank president other than an officer with responsibility for business development.
(b)
Application requirements.
An applicant for certification as a housing associate shall submit an application that satisfies the requirements of the Bank Act and this part to the Bank of the district in which the applicant's principal place of business, as determined in accordance with part 925 of this title, is located.
(c)
Bank decision process
—(1)
Action on applications.
A Bank shall approve or deny an application for certification as a housing associate within 60 calendar days of the date the Bank deems the application to be complete. A Bank shall deem an application complete, and so notify the applicant in writing, when it has obtained all of the information required by this part and any other information it deems necessary to process the application. If a Bank determines during the review process that additional information is necessary to process the application, the Bank may deem the application incomplete and stop the 60-day time period by providing written notice to the applicant. When the Bank receives the additional information, it shall again deem the application complete, so notify the applicant in writing, and resume the 60-day time period where it stopped.
(2)
Decision on applications.
The Bank or a duly delegated committee of the Bank's board of directors, the Bank president, or a senior officer who reports directly to the Bank president other than an officer with responsibility for business development shall approve, or the board of directors of a Bank shall deny, each application for certification as a housing associate by a written decision resolution stating the grounds for the decision. Within three business days of a Bank's decision on an application, the Bank shall provide the applicant and the FHFA with a copy of the Bank's decision resolution.
(3)
File.
The Bank shall maintain a certification file for each applicant for
at least three years after the date the Bank decides whether to approve or deny certification or the date the FHFA resolves any appeal, whichever is later. At a minimum, the certification file shall include all documents submitted by the applicant or otherwise obtained or generated by the Bank concerning the applicant, all documents the Bank relied upon in making its determination regarding certification, including copies of statutes and regulations, and the decision resolution.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 9510, Feb. 28, 2005; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010]
§ 1264.6
Appeals.
(a)
General.
Within 90 calendar days of the date of a Bank's decision to deny an application for certification as a housing associate, the applicant may submit a written appeal to FHFA that includes the Bank's decision resolution and a statement of the basis for the appeal with sufficient facts, information, analysis and explanation to support the applicant's position. Send appeals to the Deputy Director for Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation, Federal Housing Finance Agency, 400 7th Street SW., Seventh Floor, Washington, DC 20219, with a copy to the Bank.
(b)
Record for appeal.
Upon receiving a copy of an appeal, the Bank whose action has been appealed shall provide to the FHFA a complete copy of the applicant's certification file maintained by the Bank under § 1264.5(c)(3). Until the FHFA resolves the appeal, the Bank shall promptly provide to the FHFA any relevant new materials it receives. The FHFA may request additional information or further supporting arguments from the applicant, the Bank, or any other party that the FHFA deems appropriate.
(c)
Deciding appeals.
Within 90 calendar days of the date an applicant files an appeal with the FHFA, the FHFA shall consider the record for appeal described in paragraph (b) of this section and resolve the appeal based on the requirements of the Bank Act and this part.
[65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 9510, Feb. 28, 2005; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 80 FR 80233, Dec. 24, 2015]
Pt. 1265

# PART 1265—CORE MISSION ACTIVITIES
Sec.
1265.1
Definitions.
1265.2
Mission of the Banks.
1265.3
Core mission activities.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430b, 1431, 4511, 4513 and 4526.

# Source:
65 FR 25278, May 1, 2000, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010.
§ 1265.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Advance
means a loan from a Bank that is:
(1) Provided pursuant to a written agreement;
(2) Supported by a note or other written evidence of the borrower's obligations; and
(3) Fully secured by collateral in accordance with the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 through 1449) and applicable regulations.
SBIC
means a small business investment company formed pursuant to section 301 of the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 681).
Targeted income level
means:
(1) For rural areas, incomes at or below 115 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted for family size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable area median income standard or, at the option of the Bank, for a family of four; and
(2) For urban areas, incomes at or below 100 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted for family size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable area median income standard or, at the option of the Bank, for a family of four.
[75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013]
§ 1265.2
Mission of the Banks.
The mission of the Banks is to provide to their members' and housing associates financial products and services, including but not limited to advances, that assist and enhance such members' and housing associates financing:
(a) Financing of housing, including single-family and multi-family housing
serving consumers at all income levels; and
(b) Community lending.
[65 FR 25278, May 1, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12850, Mar. 20, 2002; 67 FR 39791, June 10, 2002]
§ 1265.3
Core mission activities.
The following Bank activities qualify as core mission activities:
(a) Advances;
(b) Acquired member assets (AMA), except that United States government-insured or guaranteed whole single-family residential mortgage loans acquired under a commitment entered into after April 12, 2000 shall qualify only in a cumulative dollar amount up to 33 percent of: The cumulative total dollar amount of AMA acquired by a Bank after April 12, 2000, less the cumulative dollar amount of United States government-insured or guaranteed whole single-family residential mortgage loans acquired after April 12, 2000 under commitments entered into on or before April 12, 2000 (which calculation, at the discretion of two or more Banks, may be made based on aggregate transactions among those Banks);
(c) Standby letters of credit;
(d) Intermediary derivative contracts;
(e) Debt or equity investments:
(1) That primarily benefit households having a targeted income level, a significant proportion of which must benefit households with incomes at or below 80 percent of area median income, or areas targeted for redevelopment by local, state, tribal or Federal government (including Federal Empowerment Zones and Enterprise and Champion Communities), by providing or supporting one or more of the following activities:
(i) Housing;
(ii) Economic development;
(iii) Community services;
(iv) Permanent jobs; or
(v) Area revitalization or stabilization;
(2) In the case of mortgage- or asset-backed securities, the acquisition of which would expand liquidity for loans that are not otherwise adequately provided by the private sector and do not have a readily available or well established secondary market; and
(3) That involve one or more members or housing associates in a manner, financial or otherwise, and to a degree to be determined by the Bank;
(f) Investments in SBICs, where one or more members or housing associates of the Bank also make a material investment in the same activity;
(g) SBIC debentures, the short term tranche of SBIC securities, ore other debentures that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration under title III of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended (15 U.S.C. 681
et seq.
);
(h) Section 108 Interim Notes and Participation Certificates guaranteed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5308); and
(i) Investments and obligations issued or guaranteed under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
).
[65 FR 43981, July 17, 2000]
Pt. 1266

# PART 1266—ADVANCES

# Subpart A—Advances to Members
Sec.
1266.1
Definitions.
1266.2
Authorization and application for advances; obligation to repay advances.
1266.3
Purpose of long-term advances; Proxy text.
1266.4
Limitations on access to advances.
1266.5
Terms and conditions for advances.
1266.6
Fees.
1266.7
Collateral.
1266.8
Banks as secured creditors.
1266.9
Pledged collateral; verification.
1266.10
Collateral valuation; appraisals.
1266.11
[Reserved]
1266.12
Intradistrict transfer of advances.
1266.13
Special advances to savings associations.
1266.14
Advances to the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
1266.15
Liquidation of advances upon termination of membership.

# Subpart B—Advances to Housing Associates
1266.16
Scope.
1266.17
Advances to housing associates.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426, 1429, 1430, 1430b, 1431, 4511(b), 4513, 4526(a).

# Source:
58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 65 FR 8256, Feb. 18, 2000, and 75 FR 76622, Dec. 9, 2010.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1266 appear at 75 FR 76622, Dec. 9, 2010.

# Subpart A—Advances to Members
§ 1266.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Advance
means a loan from a Bank that is:
(1) Provided pursuant to a written agreement;
(2) Supported by a note or other written evidence of the borrower's obligation; and
(3) Fully secured by collateral in accordance with the Bank Act and this part.
Affiliate
means any business entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a member.
Capital deficient member
means a member that fails to meet its minimum regulatory capital requirements as defined or otherwise required by the member's appropriate federal banking agency, insurer or, in the case of members that are not federally insured depository institutions, state regulator.
Cash equivalents
means investments that—
(1) Are readily convertible into known amounts of cash;
(2) Have a remaining maturity of 90 days or less at the acquisition date; and
(3) Are held for liquidity purposes.
CFI member
means a member that is a Community Financial Institution, as defined in § 1263.1 of this chapter, except that, for purposes of this part, the member's average of total assets over three years shall be calculated by the Bank:
(1) Based on the average of total assets drawn from the institution's regulatory financial reports (as defined in § 1263.1 of this chapter) filed with its appropriate regulator (as defined in § 1263.1 of this chapter) for the three most recent calendar year-ends; and
(2) Annually, and shall be effective April 1 of each year.
Community development
has the same meaning as under the definition set forth in the Community Reinvestment rule for the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR part 228), Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (12 CFR part 345), the Office of Thrift Supervision (12 CFR part 563e) or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (12 CFR part 25), whichever is the CFI member's primary Federal regulator.
Community development loan
means a loan, or a participation interest in such loan, that has as its primary purpose community development, but such loans shall not include:
(1) Any loan or instrument that qualifies as eligible security for an advance under § 1266.7(a) of this part;
(2) Any loan that qualifies as a small agri-business loan, small business loan or small farm loan, under definitions set forth in this section; or
(3) Consumer loans or credit extended to one or more individuals for household, family or other personal expenditures.
Credit union
means a credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
Depository institution
means a bank, savings association, or credit union.
Dwelling unit
means a single room or a unified combination of rooms designed for residential use by one household.
Improved residential real property
means residential real property excluding real property to be improved, or in the process of being improved, by the construction of dwelling units.
Insurer
means the FDIC for insured depository institutions, as defined section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2)), and the NCUA for federally-insured credit unions.
Long-term advance
means an advance with an original term to maturity greater than five years.
Manufactured housing
means a manufactured home as defined in section 603(6) of the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5402(6)).
Mortgage-backed security
means:
(1) An equity security representing an ownership interest in:
(i) Fully disbursed, whole first mortgage loans on improved residential real property; or
(ii) Mortgage pass-through or participation securities which are themselves backed entirely by fully disbursed, whole first mortgage loans on improved residential real property; or
(2) An obligation, bond, or other debt security backed entirely by the assets described in paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of this definition.
Multifamily property
means:
(1)(i) Real property that is solely residential and which includes five or more dwelling units; or
(ii) Real property which includes five or more dwelling units with commercial units combined, provided the property is primarily residential.
(2) Multifamily property as defined in this section includes nursing homes, dormitories and homes for the elderly.
Nonresidential real property
means real property not used for residential purposes, including business or industrial property, hotels, motels, churches, hospitals, educational and charitable institutions, clubs, lodges, association buildings, golf courses, recreational facilities, farm property not containing a dwelling unit, or similar types of property, except as otherwise determined by the FHFA in its discretion.
One-to-four family property
means any of the following:
(1) Real property containing:
(i) One-to-four dwelling units; or
(ii) More than four dwelling units if each unit is separated from the other units by dividing walls that extend from ground to roof, including row houses, townhouses or similar types of property;
(2) Manufactured housing if:
(i) Applicable state law defines the purchase or holding of manufactured housing as the purchase or holding of real property; and
(ii) The loan to purchase the manufactured housing is secured by that manufactured housing;
(3) Individual condominium dwelling units or interests in individual cooperative housing dwelling units that are part of a condominium or cooperative building without regard to the number of total dwelling units therein; or
(4) Real property containing one-to-four dwelling units with commercial units combined, provided the property is primarily residential.
Residential housing finance assets
means any of the following:
(1) Loans secured by residential real property;
(2) Mortgage-backed securities;
(3) Participations in loans secured by residential real property;
(4) Loans or investments providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries;
(5) Loans secured by manufactured housing, regardless of whether such housing qualifies as residential real property;
(6) Any loans or investments which FHFA, in its discretion, otherwise determines to be residential housing finance assets; and
(7) For CFI members, and to the extent not already included in categories (1) through (6), small business loans, small farm loans, small agri-business loans, or community development loans.
Residential real property
means:
(1) Any of the following:
(i) One-to-four family property;
(ii) Multifamily property;
(iii) Real property to be improved by the construction of dwelling units;
(iv) Real property in the process of being improved by the construction of dwelling units;
(2) The term residential real property does not include nonresidential real property as defined in this section.
Savings association
means a savings association as defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)).
Small agri-business loans
means loans to finance agricultural production and other loans to farmers that are within the legal lending limit of the reporting CFI member, and that are reported on either: Schedule RC-C, Part I, item 3 of the Report of Condition and Income filed by insured commercial banks and FDIC-supervised savings banks; or Schedule SC300, SC303 or SC306 of the Thrift Financial Report filed by savings associations (or equivalent successor schedules).
Small business loans
means commercial and industrial loans that are within the legal lending limit of the reporting CFI member and that are reported on either: Schedule RC-C, Part I, item 1.e or Schedule RC-C, Part I, item 4 of the Report of Condition and Income filed by insured commercial banks and FDIC-supervised savings banks; or Schedule SC300, SC303 or SC306 of the Thrift Financial Report filed by savings associations (or equivalent successor schedules).
Small farm loans
means loans secured primarily by farmland that are within the legal lending limit of the reporting CFI member, and that are reported on either: Schedule RC-C, Part I, item 1.a. or 1.b. of the Report of Condition and Income filed by insured commercial banks and FDIC-supervised savings banks; or Schedule SC260 of the Thrift Financial Report filed by savings associations (or equivalent successor schedules).
State housing finance agency
or
SHFA
has the meaning set forth in § 1264.1 of this chapter.
State regulator
means a state insurance commissioner or state regulatory entity with primary responsibility for supervising a member borrower that is not a federally insured depository institution.
Tangible capital
means:
(1) Capital, calculated according to GAAP, less “intangible assets” except for purchased mortgage servicing rights to the extent such assets are included in a member's core or Tier 1 capital, as reported in a member's Report of Condition and Income for members whose primary federal regulator is the FDIC, the OCC, or the FRB.
(2) Capital calculated according to GAAP, less intangible assets, as defined by a Bank for members that are not regulated by the FDIC, the OCC, or the FRB; provided that a Bank shall include a member's purchased mortgage servicing rights to the extent such assets are included for the purpose of meeting regulatory capital requirements. In addition, for those members that are insurance companies and that do not file or otherwise prepare financial statements based on GAAP, Banks may base this calculation on the member's financial statements prepared using Statutory Accounting Principles as implemented by the insurance company member's appropriate state regulator.
Targeted beneficiaries
has the meaning set forth in § 952.1 of this title.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29477, May 20, 1993; 59 FR 2949, Jan. 20, 1994; 62 FR 8871, Feb. 27, 1997; 62 FR 12079, Mar. 14, 1997; 63 FR 35128, June 29, 1998; 63 FR 65545, Nov. 27, 1998; 64 FR 16621, Apr. 6, 1999; 65 FR 8262, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44428, July 18, 2000; 66 FR 50295, Oct. 3, 2001; 67 FR 12850, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 76622, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1266.2
Authorization and application for advances; obligation to repay advances.
(a)
Application for advances.
A Bank may accept oral or written applications for advances from its members.
(b)
Obligation to repay advances.
(1) A Bank shall require any member to which an advance is made to enter into a primary and unconditional obligation to repay such advance and all other indebtedness to the Bank, together with interest and any unpaid costs and expenses in connection therewith, according to the terms under which such advance was made or other indebtedness incurred.
(2) Such obligations shall be evidenced by a written advances agreement that shall be reviewed by the Bank's legal counsel to ensure such agreement is in compliance with applicable law.
(c)
Secured advances.
(1) Each Bank shall make only fully secured advances to its members as set forth in the Bank Act, the provisions of this part and policy guidelines established by the FHFA.
(2) The Bank shall execute a written security agreement with each borrowing member which establishes the Bank's security interest in collateral securing advances.
(3) Such written security agreement shall, at a minimum, describe the type of collateral securing the advances and give the Bank a perfectible security interest in the collateral.
(d)
Form of applications and agreements.
Applications for advances, advances agreements and security agreements shall be in substantially such form as approved by the Bank's board
of directors, or a committee thereof specifically authorized by the board of directors to approve such forms.
(e)
Status of secured lending.
All secured transactions, regardless of the form of the transaction, for money borrowed from a Bank by a member of any Bank shall be considered an advance subject to the requirements of this part.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 71278, Dec. 21, 1999; 65 FR 8262, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 1266.3
Purpose of long-term advances; Proxy test.
(a) A Bank shall make long-term advances only for the purpose of enabling any member to purchase or fund new or existing residential housing finance assets.
(b)(1) Prior to approving an application for a long-term advance, a Bank shall determine that the principal amount of all long-term advances currently held by the member does not exceed the total book value of residential housing finance assets held by such member. The Bank shall determine the total book value of such residential housing finance assets, using the most recent Thrift Financial Report, Report of Condition and Income, financial statement or other reliable documentation made available by the member.
(2) Applications for CICA advances are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 1266.4
Limitations on access to advances.
(a)
Credit underwriting.
A Bank, in its discretion, may:
(1) Limit or deny a member's application for an advance if, in the Bank's judgment, such member:
(i) Is engaging or has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices;
(ii) Has inadequate capital;
(iii) Is sustaining operating losses;
(iv) Has financial or managerial deficiencies, as determined by the Bank, that bear upon the member's creditworthiness; or
(v) Has any other deficiencies, as determined by the Bank; or
(2) Make advances and renewals only if the Bank determines that it may safely make such advance or renewal to the member, including advances and renewals made pursuant to this section.
(b)
New advances to members without positive tangible capital.
(1) A Bank shall not make a new advance to a member without positive tangible capital unless the member's appropriate federal banking agency or insurer requests in writing that the Bank make such advance. The Bank shall promptly provide the FHFA with a copy of any such request.
(2) A Bank shall use the most recently available Thrift Financial Report, Report of Condition, and Income or other regulatory report of financial condition to determine whether a member has positive tangible capital.
(c)
Renewals of advances to members without positive tangible capital
—(1)
Renewal for 30-day terms.
A Bank may renew outstanding advances, for successive terms of up to 30 days each, to a member without positive tangible capital; provided, however, that a Bank shall honor any written request of the appropriate federal banking agency or insurer that the Bank not renew such advances.
(2)
Renewal for longer than 30-day terms.
A Bank may renew outstanding advances to a member without positive tangible capital for a term greater than 30 days at the written request of the appropriate federal banking agency or insurer.
(d)
Advances to capital deficient but solvent members.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, a Bank may make a new advance or renew an outstanding advance to a capital deficient member that has positive tangible capital.
(2)(i) A Bank shall not lend to a capital deficient member that has positive tangible capital if it receives written notice from the appropriate federal banking agency or insurer that the member's use of Bank advances has been prohibited. The Bank shall promptly provide the FHFA with a copy of any such notice.
(ii) A Bank may resume lending to such a capital deficient member if the Bank receives a written statement
from the appropriate federal banking agency or insurer which re-establishes the member's ability to use advances.
(e)
Reporting.
(1) Each Bank shall provide the FHFA with a report of the advances and commitments outstanding to each of its members in accordance with the instructions provided in the Data Reporting Manual issued by the FHFA, as amended from time to time.
(2) Each Bank shall, upon written request from a member's appropriate federal banking agency or insurer, provide to such entity information on advances and commitments outstanding to the member.
(f)
Members without federal regulators.
In the case of members that are not federally insured depository institutions, the references in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section to “appropriate federal banking agency or insurer” shall mean the member's state regulator acting in a capacity similar to an appropriate federal banking agency or insurer.
(g)
Advance commitments.
(1) In the event that a member's access to advances from a Bank is restricted pursuant to this section, the Bank shall not fund outstanding commitments for advances not exercised prior to the imposition of the restriction. This requirement shall apply to all advance commitments made by a Bank after August 25, 1993.
(2) Each Bank shall include the stipulation contained in paragraph (g)(1) of this section as a clause in either:
(i) The written advances agreement required by § 1266.2(b)(2) of this part; or
(ii) The written advances application required by § 1266.2(a) of this part.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 2949, Jan. 20, 1994; 64 FR 71278, Dec. 21, 1999; 65 FR 8263, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002; 71 FR 35500, June 21, 2006]
§ 1266.5
Terms and conditions for advances.
(a)
Advance maturities.
Each Bank shall offer advances with maturities of up to ten years, and may offer advances with longer maturities consistent with the safe and sound operation of the Bank.
(b)
Advance pricing
—(1)
General.
A Bank shall not price its advances to members below:
(i) The marginal cost to the Bank of raising matching term and maturity funds in the marketplace, including embedded options; and
(ii) The administrative and operating costs associated with making such advances to members.
(2)
Differential pricing.
(i) Each Bank may, in pricing its advances, distinguish among members based upon its assessment of:
(A) The credit and other risks to the Bank of lending to any particular member; or
(B) Other reasonable criteria that may be applied equally to all members.
(ii) Each Bank shall include in its member products policy required by § 917.4 of this title, standards and criteria for such differential pricing and shall apply such standards and criteria consistently and without discrimination to all members applying for advances.
(3)
Exceptions.
The advance pricing policies contained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply in the case of:
(i) A Bank's CICA programs; and
(ii) Any other advances programs that are volume limited and specifically approved by the Bank's board of directors.
(c)
Authorization for pricing advances.
(1) A Bank's board of directors, a committee thereof, or the Bank's president, if so authorized by the Bank's board of directors, shall set the rates of interest on advances consistent with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) A Bank president authorized to set interest rates on advances pursuant to this paragraph (c) may delegate any part of such authority to any officer or employee of the Bank.
(d)
Putable or convertible advances
—(1)
Disclosure.
A Bank that offers a putable or convertible advance to a member shall disclose in writing to such member the type and nature of the risks associated with putable or convertible advance funding. The disclosure should include detail sufficient to describe such risks.
(2)
Replacement funding for putable advances.
If a Bank terminates a putable
advance prior to the stated maturity date of such advance, the Bank shall offer to provide replacement funding to the member, provided the member is able to satisfy the normal credit and collateral requirements of the Bank for the replacement funding requested.
(3)
Definition.
For purposes of this paragraph (d), the term
putable advance
means an advance that a Bank may, at its discretion, terminate and require the member to repay prior to the stated maturity date of the advance.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 52687, Oct. 8, 1996; 65 FR 8263, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000]
§ 1266.6
Fees.
(a)
Fees in member products policy.
All fees charged by each Bank and any schedules or formulas pertaining to such fees shall be included in the Bank's member products policy required by § 917.4 of this title. Any such fee schedules or formulas shall be applied consistently and without discrimination to all members.
(b)
Prepayment fees.
(1) Except where an advance product contains a prepayment option, each Bank shall establish and charge a prepayment fee pursuant to a specified formula which makes the Bank financially indifferent to the borrower's decision to repay the advance prior to its maturity date.
(2) Prepayment fees are not required for:
(i) Advances with original terms to maturity or repricing periods of six months or less;
(ii) Advances funded by callable debt; or
(iii) Advances which are otherwise appropriately hedged so that the Bank is financially indifferent to their prepayment.
(3) The board of directors of each Bank, a designated committee thereof, or officers specifically authorized by the board of directors, may waive a prepayment fee only if such prepayment will not result in an economic loss to the Bank. Any such waiver must subsequently be ratified by the board of directors.
(4) A Bank, in determining whether or not to waive a prepayment fee, shall apply consistent standards to all of its members.
(c)
Commitment fees.
Each Bank may charge a fee for its commitment to fund an advance.
(d)
Other fees.
Each Bank is authorized to charge other fees as it deems necessary and appropriate.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993; 65 FR 8263, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000]
§ 1266.7
Collateral.
(a)
Eligible security for advances to all members.
At the time of origination or renewal of an advance, each Bank shall obtain from the borrowing member or, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, an affiliate of the borrowing member, and thereafter maintain, a security interest in collateral that meets the requirements of one or more of the following categories:
(1)
Mortgage loans and privately issued securities.
(i) Fully disbursed, whole first mortgage loans on improved residential real property not more than 90 days delinquent; or
(ii) Privately issued mortgage-backed securities, excluding the following:
(A) Securities that represent a share of only the interest payments or only the principal payments from the underlying mortgage loans;
(B) Securities that represent a subordinate interest in the cash flows from the underlying mortgage loans;
(C) Securities that represent an interest in any residual payments from the underlying pool of mortgage loans; or
(D) Such other high-risk securities as the FHFA in its discretion may determine.
(2)
Agency securities.
Securities issued, insured or guaranteed by the United States Government, or any agency thereof, including without limitation:
(i) Mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, or any other agency of the United States Government;
(ii) Mortgages or other loans, regardless of delinquency status, to the extent that the mortgage or loan is insured or guaranteed by the United States or any agency thereof, or otherwise is backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States, and such insurance, guarantee or other backing is for the direct benefit of the holder of the mortgage or loan; and
(iii) Securities backed by, or representing an equity interest in, mortgages or other loans referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Cash or deposits.
Cash or deposits in a Bank.
(4)
Other real estate-related collateral.
(i) Other real estate-related collateral provided that:
(A) Such collateral has a readily ascertainable value, can be reliably discounted to account for liquidation and other risks, and can be liquidated in due course; and
(B) The Bank can perfect a security interest in such collateral.
(ii) Eligible other real estate-related collateral may include, but is not limited to:
(A) Privately issued mortgage-backed securities not otherwise eligible under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(B) Second mortgage loans, including home equity loans;
(C) Commercial real estate loans; and
(D) Mortgage loan participations.
(5)
Securities representing equity interests in eligible advances collateral.
Any security the ownership of which represents an undivided equity interest in underlying assets, all of which qualify either as:
(i) Eligible collateral under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section; or
(ii) Cash equivalents.
(b)
Additional collateral eligible as security for advances to CFI members or their affiliates
—(1)
General.
Subject to the requirements set forth in part 1272 of this chapter, a Bank is authorized to accept from CFI members or their affiliates as security for advances small business loans, small farm loans, small agri-business loans, or community development loans, in each case fully secured by collateral other than real estate, or securities representing a whole interest in such secured loans, provided that:
(i) Such collateral has a readily ascertainable value, can be reliably discounted to account for liquidation and other risks, and can be liquidated in due course; and
(ii) The Bank can perfect a security interest in such collateral.
(2)
Change in CFI status.
If a Bank determines, as of April 1 of each year, that a member that has previously qualified as a CFI no longer qualifies as a CFI, and the member has total advances outstanding that exceed the amount that can be fully secured by collateral under paragraph (a) of this section, the Bank may:
(i) Permit the advances of such member to run to their stated maturities; and
(ii) Renew such member's advances to mature no later than March 31 of the following year; provided that the total of the member's advances under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be fully secured by collateral set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(c)
Bank restrictions on eligible advances collateral.
A Bank at its discretion may further restrict the types of eligible collateral acceptable to the Bank as security for an advance, based upon the creditworthiness or operations of the borrower, the quality of the collateral, or other reasonable criteria.
(d)
Additional advances collateral.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not affect the ability of any Bank to take such steps as it deems necessary to protect its secured position on outstanding advances, including requiring additional collateral, whether or not such additional collateral conforms to the requirements for eligible collateral in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section or section 10 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430).
(e)
Bank stock as collateral.
(1) Pursuant to section 10(c) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(c)), a Bank shall have a lien upon, and shall hold, the stock of a member in the Bank as further collateral security for all indebtedness of the member to the Bank.
(2) The written security agreement used by the Bank shall provide that the borrowing member's Bank stock is assigned as additional security by the member to the Bank.
(3) The security interest of the Bank in such member's Bank stock shall be entitled to the priority provided for in
section 10(e) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(e)).
(f)
Advances collateral security requiring formal approval.
No home mortgage loan otherwise eligible to be accepted as collateral for an advance by a Bank under this section shall be accepted as collateral for an advance if any director, officer, employee, attorney or agent of the Bank or of the borrowing member is personally liable thereon, unless the board of directors of the Bank has specifically approved such acceptance by formal resolution, and the FHFA has endorsed such resolution.
(g)
Pledge of advances collateral by affiliates.
Assets held by an affiliate of a member that are eligible as collateral under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section may be used to secure advances to that member only if:
(1) The collateral is pledged to secure either:
(i) The member's obligation to repay advances; or
(ii) A surety or other agreement under which the affiliate has assumed, along with the member, a primary obligation to repay advances made to the member; and
(2) The Bank obtains and maintains a legally enforceable security interest pursuant to which the Bank's legal rights and privileges with respect to the collateral are functionally equivalent in all material respects to those that the Bank would possess if the member were to pledge the same collateral directly, and such functional equivalence is supported by adequate documentation.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 16621, Apr. 6, 1999; 65 FR 8262, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 1266.8
Banks as secured creditors.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any security interest granted to a Bank by a member, or by an affiliate of a member, shall be entitled to priority over the claims and rights of any party, including any receiver, conservator, trustee or similar party having rights of a lien creditor, to such collateral.
(b) A Bank's security interest as described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be entitled to priority over the claims and rights of a party that:
(1) Would be entitled to priority under otherwise applicable law; and
(2) Is an actual bona fide purchaser for value of such collateral or is an actual secured party whose security interest in such collateral is perfected in accordance with applicable state law.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993. Redesignated at 65 FR 8256, Feb. 18, 2000 and further redesignated at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002]
§ 1266.9
Pledged collateral; verification.
(a)
Collateral safekeeping.
(1) A Bank may permit a member that is a depository institution to retain documents evidencing collateral pledged to the Bank, provided that the Bank and such member have executed a written security agreement pursuant to § 1266.2(c) of this part whereby such collateral is retained solely for the Bank's benefit and subject to the Bank's control and direction.
(2) A Bank shall take any steps necessary to ensure that its security interest in all collateral pledged by non-depository institutions for an advance is as secure as its security interest in collateral pledged by depository institutions.
(3) A Bank may at any time perfect its security interest in collateral securing an advance to a member.
(b)
Collateral verification.
Each Bank shall establish written procedures and standards for verifying the existence of collateral securing the Bank's advances, and shall regularly verify the existence of the collateral securing its advances in accordance with such procedures and standards.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 16621, Apr. 6, 1999; 65 FR 8263, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002]
§ 1266.10
Collateral valuation; appraisals.
(a)
Collateral valuation.
Each Bank shall determine the value of collateral securing the Bank's advances in accordance with the collateral valuation procedures set forth in the Bank's
member products policy established pursuant to § 1239.30 of this chapter.
(b)
Fair application of procedures.
Each Bank shall apply the collateral valuation procedures consistently and fairly to all borrowing members, and the valuation ascribed to any item of collateral by the Bank shall be conclusive as between the Bank and the member.
(c)
Appraisals.
A Bank may require a member to obtain an appraisal of any item of collateral, and to perform such other investigations of collateral as the Bank deems necessary and proper.
[65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 76297, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1266.11
[Reserved]
§ 1266.12
Intradistrict transfer of advances.
(a)
Advances held by members.
A Bank may allow one of its members to assume an advance extended by the Bank to another of its members, provided the assumption complies with the requirements of this part governing the issuance of new advances. A Bank may charge an appropriate fee for processing the transfer.
(b)
Advances held by nonmembers.
A Bank may allow one of its members to assume an advance held by a nonmember, provided the advance was originated by the Bank and provided the assumption complies with the requirements of this part governing the issuance of new advances. A Bank may charge an appropriate fee for processing the transfer.
[59 FR 2950, Jan. 20, 1994. Redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000]
§ 1266.13
Special advances to savings associations.
(a)
Eligible institutions.
(1) A Bank, upon receipt of a written request from the OCC, with respect to a federal savings association, or from the FDIC, with respect to a state chartered savings association, may make short-term advances to a savings association member pursuant to section 10(h) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(h)).
(2) Such request must certify that the savings association member:
(i) Is solvent but presents a supervisory concern to the OCC or FDIC, as appropriate, because of the member's financial condition; and
(ii) Has reasonable and demonstrable prospects of returning to a satisfactory financial condition.
(b)
Terms and conditions.
Advances made by a Bank to a member savings association under this section shall:
(1) Be subject to all applicable collateral requirements of the Bank, this part and section 10(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(a)); and
(2) Be at the interest rate applicable to advances of similar type and maturity that are made available to other members that do not pose such a supervisory concern.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993. Redesignated at 65 FR 8256, Feb. 18, 2000 and further redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000; 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1266.14
Advances to the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
(a)
Authority.
Upon receipt of a written request from the FDIC, a Bank may make advances to the FDIC for the use of the Savings Association Insurance Fund. The Bank shall provide a copy of such request to the FHFA.
(b)
Requirements.
Advances to the FDIC for the use of the Savings Association Insurance Fund shall:
(1) Bear a rate of interest not less than the Bank's marginal cost of funds, taking into account the maturities involved and reasonable administrative costs;
(2) Have a maturity acceptable to the Bank;
(3) Be subject to any prepayment, commitment, or other appropriate fees of the Bank; and
(4) Be adequately secured by collateral acceptable to the Bank.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 8262, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000]
§ 1266.15
Liquidation of advances upon termination of membership.
If an institution's membership in a Bank is terminated, the Bank shall determine an orderly schedule for liquidating any indebtedness of such member to the Bank; this section shall not require a Bank to call any such indebtedness prior to maturity of the advance. The Bank shall deem any such
liquidation a prepayment of the member's indebtedness, and the member shall be subject to any fees applicable to such prepayment.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993. Redesignated at 65 FR 8256, Feb. 18, 2000 and further redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000]

# Subpart B—Advances to Housing Associates

# Source:
62 FR 12079, Mar. 14, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1266.16
Scope.
Except as otherwise provided in §§ 1266.14 and 1266.17, the requirements of subpart A apply to this subpart.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993. Redesignated at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000]
§ 1266.17
Advances to housing associates.
(a)
Authority.
Subject to the provisions of the Bank Act and this subpart, a Bank may make advances only to a housing associate whose principal place of business, as determined in accordance with part 1263 of this chapter, is located in the Bank's district.
(b)
Collateral requirements
—(1)
Advances to housing associates.
A Bank may make an advance to any housing associate upon the security of the following collateral:
(i) Mortgage loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration of HUD under title II of the National Housing Act; or
(ii) Securities representing a whole interest in the principal and interest payments due on a pool of mortgage loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration of HUD under title II of the National Housing Act. A Bank may only accept as collateral the securities described in this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) if the housing associate provides evidence that such securities are backed solely by mortgages of the type described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Certain advances to SHFAs.
(i) In addition to the collateral described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a Bank may make an advance to a housing associate that has satisfied the requirements of § 1264.3(b) for the purpose of facilitating residential or commercial mortgage lending that benefits individuals or families meeting the income requirements in section 142(d) or 143(f) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 142(d) or 143(f)) upon the security of the following collateral:
(A) The collateral described in § 1266.7(a)(1) or (2).
(B) The collateral described in § 1266.7(a)(3). Solely for the purpose of facilitating acceptance of such collateral, a Bank may establish a cash collateral account for a housing associate that has satisfied the requirements of § 1264.3(b).
(C) The other real estate-related collateral described in § 1266.7(a)(4), provided that such collateral comprises mortgage loans on one-to-four family or multifamily residential property.
(ii) Prior to making an advance pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2), a Bank shall obtain a written certification from the housing associate that it shall use the proceeds of the advance for the purposes described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(c)
Terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Subject to the provisions of this paragraph (c), a Bank, in its discretion, shall determine whether, and on what terms, it will make advances to a housing associate.
(2)
Advance pricing.
(i) A Bank shall price advances to housing associates in accordance with the requirements for pricing advances to members set forth in § 1266.5(b). Wherever the term “member” appears in § 1266.5(b) the term shall be construed also to mean “housing associate.”
(ii) A Bank shall apply the pricing criteria identified in § 1266.5(b)(2) equally to all of its member and housing associate borrowers.
(3)
Limit on advances.
The principal amount of any advance made to a housing associate may not exceed 90 percent of the unpaid principal of the mortgage loans or securities pledged as security for the advance. This limit does not apply to an advance made to a housing associate under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d)
Transaction accounts.
Solely for the purpose of facilitating the making of advances to a housing associate, a
Bank may establish a transaction account for each housing associate.
(e)
Loss of eligibility
—(1)
Notification of status changes.
A Bank shall require a housing associate that applies for an advance to agree in writing that it will promptly inform the Bank of any change in its status as a housing associate.
(2)
Verification of eligibility.
A Bank may, from time to time, require a housing associate to provide evidence that it continues to satisfy all of the eligibility requirements of the Bank Act, this subpart and part 1264 of this chapter.
(3)
Loss of eligibility.
A Bank shall not extend a new advance or renew an existing advance to a housing associate that no longer meets the eligibility requirements of the Bank Act, this subpart and part 1264 of this chapter until the entity has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it is in compliance with such requirements.
[58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 203, Jan. 4, 2000; 65 FR 8263, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 44430, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002; 70 FR 9510, Feb. 28, 2005; 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
Pt. 1267

# PART 1267—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK INVESTMENTS
Sec.
1267.1
Definitions.
1267.2
Authorized investments and transactions.
1267.3
Prohibited investments and prudential rules.
1267.4
Limitations and prudential requirements on use of derivative instruments.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1429, 1430, 1430b, 1431, 1436, 4511, 4513, 4526.

# Source:
76 FR 29151, May 20, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1267.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Asset-backed security
means a debt instrument backed by loans, but does not include debt instruments that meet the definition of a mortgage-backed security.
Deposits in banks or trust companies
means:
(1) A deposit in another Bank;
(2) A demand account in a Federal Reserve Bank;
(3) A deposit in or sale of Federal funds to:
(i) An insured depository institution, as defined in section 2(9) of the Bank Act, that is designated by the Bank's board of directors;
(ii) A trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System or insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and is designated by the Bank's board of directors; or
(iii) A U.S. branch or agency of a foreign Bank as defined in the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended, (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
) that is subject to supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and is designated by the Bank's board of directors.
Derivative contract
means generally a financial contract the value of which is derived from the values of one or more referenced assets, rates, or indices of asset values, or credit-related events. Derivative contracts include interest rate derivative contracts, foreign exchange rate derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, precious metals derivative contracts, commodity derivative contracts and credit derivatives, and any other instruments that pose similar risks.
Indexed principal swap
means an interest rate swap agreement in which the notional principal balance amortizes based upon the prepayment experience of a specified group of mortgage-backed securities or asset-backed securities or the behavior of an interest rate index.
Interest-only stripped security
means a class of mortgage-backed or asset-backed security that is allocated only the interest payments made on the underlying mortgages or loans and receives no principal payments.
Investment quality
means a determination made by the Bank with respect to a security or obligation that, based on documented analysis, including consideration of the sources for repayment on the security or obligation:
(1) There is adequate financial backing so that full and timely payment of principal and interest on such security or obligation is expected; and
(2) There is minimal risk that the timely payment of principal or interest would not occur because of adverse
changes in economic and financial conditions during the projected life of the security or obligation.
Mortgage-backed security
means a security or instrument, including collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), and Real Estate Mortgage Investment Trusts (REMICS), that represents an interest in, or is secured by, one or more pools of mortgage loans.
Principal-only stripped security
means a class of mortgage-backed or asset-backed security that is allocated only the principal payments made on the underlying mortgages or loans and receives no interest payments.
Total capital
shall have the meaning set forth in § 1229.1 of this chapter.
[76 FR 29151, May 20, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 78 FR 67008, Nov. 8, 2013; 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1267.2
Authorized investments and transactions.
(a) In addition to assets enumerated in parts 1266 and 1268 of this chapter and subject to the applicable limitations set forth in this part, and in part 1272 of this chapter, each Bank may invest in:
(1) Obligations of the United States;
(2) Deposits in banks or trust companies;
(3) Obligations, participations or other instruments of, or issued by, the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Government National Mortgage Association;
(4) Mortgages, obligations, or other securities that are, or ever have been, sold by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 305 or 306 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454 or 1455);
(5) Stock, obligations, or other securities of any small business investment company formed pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 681, to the extent such investment is made for purposes of aiding members of the Bank; and
(6) Instruments that the Bank has determined are permissible investments for fiduciary or trust funds under the laws of the state in which the Bank is located.
(b) Subject to any applicable limitations set forth in this part and in part 1272 of this chapter, a Bank also may enter into the following types of transactions:
(1) Derivative contracts;
(2) Standby letters of credit, pursuant to the requirements of part 1269 of this title;
(3) Forward asset purchases and sales;
(4) Commitments to make advances; and
(5) Commitments to make or purchase other loans.
[76 FR 29151, May 20, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 91688, Dec. 19, 2016]
§ 1267.3
Prohibited investments and prudential rules.
(a)
Prohibited investments.
A Bank may not invest in:
(1) Instruments that provide an ownership interest in an entity, except for investments described in § 1265.3(e) and (f) of this chapter;
(2) Instruments issued by non-United States entities, except United States branches and agency offices of foreign commercial banks;
(3) Debt instruments that are not investment quality, except:
(i) Investments described in § 1265.3(e) of this chapter; and
(ii) Debt instruments that a Bank determined became less than investment quality because of developments or events that occurred after acquisition of the instrument by the Bank;
(4) Whole mortgages or other whole loans, or interests in mortgages or loans, except:
(i) Acquired member assets;
(ii) Investments described in § 1265.3(e) of this chapter;
(iii) Marketable direct obligations of state, local, or Tribal government units or agencies, that are investment quality, where the purchase of such obligations by the Bank provides to the issuer the customized terms, necessary liquidity, or favorable pricing required to generate needed funding for housing or community lending;
(iv) Mortgage-backed securities, or asset-backed securities collateralized by manufactured housing loans or home equity loans, that meet the definition of the term “securities” under 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(1) and are not otherwise prohibited under paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(7) of this section; and
(v) Loans held or acquired pursuant to section 12(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1432(b)).
(5) Residual interest and interest accrual classes of securities;
(6) Interest-only and principal-only stripped securities; and
(7) Fixed rate mortgage-backed securities or eligible asset-backed securities or floating rate mortgage-backed securities or eligible asset-backed securities that on the trade date are at rates equal to their contractual cap, with average lives that vary more than six years under an assumed instantaneous interest rate change of 300 basis points, unless the instrument qualifies as an acquired member asset under part 955 of this title.
(b)
Foreign currency or commodity positions prohibited.
A Bank may not take a position in any commodity or foreign currency. The Banks may issue consolidated obligations denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars or linked to equity or commodity prices, provided that the Banks meet the requirements of § 1270.9(d) of this chapter, and all other applicable requirements related to issuing consolidated obligations.
(c)
Limits on certain investments.
(1) A purchase, otherwise authorized under this part, of mortgage-backed securities or asset-backed securities, may not cause the aggregate value of all such securities held by the Bank to exceed 300 percent of the Bank's total capital. For purposes of this limitation, such aggregate value will be measured as of the transaction trade date for such purchase, and total capital will be the most recent amount reported by a Bank to FHFA. A Bank will not be required to divest securities solely to bring the level of its holdings into compliance with the limits of this paragraph, provided that the original purchase of the securities complied with the limits in this paragraph.
(2) A Bank's purchase of any mortgage-backed or asset-backed security may not cause the value of its total holdings of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, measured as of the transaction trade date for such purchase, to increase in any calendar quarter by more than 50 percent of its total capital as of the beginning of such quarter.
(3) For purposes of applying the limits under this paragraph (c), the value of relevant mortgage-backed or asset-backed securities shall be calculated based on amortized historical costs for securities classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale and on fair value for trading securities.
[76 FR 29151, May 20, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 1267.4
Limitations and prudential requirements on use of derivative instruments.
(a)
Non-speculative use.
Derivative instruments that do not qualify as hedging instruments pursuant to GAAP may be used only if a non-speculative use is documented by the Bank.
(b)
Additional Prohibitions.
(1) A Bank may not enter into interest rate swaps that amortize according to behavior of instruments described in § 1267.3(a)(5) or (6) of this part.
(2) A Bank may not enter into indexed principal swaps that have average lives that vary by more than six years under an assumed instantaneous change in interest rates of 300 basis points, unless they are entered into in conjunction with the issuance of consolidated obligations or the purchase of permissible investments or entry into a permissible transaction in which all interest rate risk is passed through to the investor or counterparty.
(c)
Documentation requirements.
(1) Derivative transactions with a single counterparty shall be governed by a single master agreement when practicable.
(2) A Bank's agreement with the counterparty for over-the-counter derivative contracts shall include:
(i) A requirement that market value determinations and subsequent adjustments of collateral be made at least on a monthly basis;
(ii) A statement that failure of a counterparty to meet a collateral call will result in an early termination event;
(iii) A description of early termination pricing and methodology, with the methodology reflecting a reasonable estimate of the market value of
the over-the-counter derivative contract at termination (standard International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. language relative to early termination pricing and methodology may be used to satisfy this requirement); and
(iv) A requirement that the Bank's consent be obtained prior to the transfer of an agreement or contract by a counterparty.
Pt. 1268

# PART 1268—ACQUIRED MEMBER ASSETS
Sec.
1268.1
Definitions.
1268.2
Authorization for acquired member assets.
1268.3
Asset requirement.
1268.4
Member or housing associate nexus requirement.
1268.5
Credit risk-sharing requirement.
1268.6
Servicing of AMA loans.
1268.7
Reporting requirements for acquired member assets.
1268.8
Administrative transactions and agreements between Banks.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430b, 1431, 4511, 4513, 4526.

# Source:
81 FR 91688, Dec. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1268.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Affiliate
means any business entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a member.
AMA investment grade
means a determination made by the Bank with respect to an asset or pool, based on documented analysis, including consideration of applicable insurance, credit enhancements, and other sources for repayment on the asset or pool, that the Bank has a high degree of confidence that it will be paid principal and interest in all material respects, even under reasonably likely adverse changes to expected economic conditions.
AMA product
means a structure that is defined by a specific set of terms and conditions that comply with this part 1268 and that is established by a Bank for purposes of governing the Bank's purchase of AMA-eligible loans.
AMA program
means a Bank-established program to buy mortgage loans that meet the requirements of this part, which may comprise multiple AMA products.
Expected losses
means the loss on the asset or pool given the expected future economic and market conditions in the model or methodology used by the Bank under § 1268.5 and applicable to an AMA product.
Participating financial institution
means a member or housing associate of a Bank that is authorized to sell, credit enhance, or service mortgage loans to or for its own Bank through an AMA program, or a member or housing associate of another Bank that has been authorized to sell, credit enhance, or service mortgage loans to or for the other Bank pursuant to an agreement between the Bank acquiring the AMA product and the Bank of which the selling institution is a member or housing associate.
Pool
means a group of loans acquired under one or more loan funding commitments, contractual agreements, or similar arrangements.
Qualified insurer
means an insurer that a Bank approves in accordance with § 1268.5(e)(1) to provide any form of mortgage insurance coverage on assets and pools purchased under an AMA program.
Residential real property
has the meaning set forth in § 1266.1 of this chapter.
§ 1268.2
Authorization for acquired member assets.
(a)
General.
Each Bank is authorized to invest in assets that qualify as AMA, subject to the requirements of this part and part 1272 of this chapter.
(b)
Grandfathered transactions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a), a Bank may continue to hold as AMA assets that were previously authorized by the Federal Housing Finance Board or FHFA for purchase as AMA, provided that the assets were purchased, and continue to be held, in compliance with that authorization.
§ 1268.3
Asset requirement.
Assets that qualify as AMA shall be limited to the following:
(a) Whole loans that are eligible to secure advances under § 1266.7(a)(1)(i),
(a)(2)(ii), (a)(4), or (b)(1) of this chapter, excluding:
(1) Single-family mortgage loans where the loan amount exceeds the limits established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2), unless the loan is guaranteed or insured by an agency or department of the U.S. government, in which case the limits in 12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2) do not apply; and
(2) Loans made to an entity, or secured by property, not located in a state;
(b) Whole loans secured by manufactured housing, regardless of whether such housing qualifies as residential real property under applicable state law;
(c) State and local housing finance agency bonds; or
(d) Certificates representing interests in whole loans if:
(1) The loans qualify as AMA under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section and meet the nexus requirement of § 1268.4; and
(2) The certificates:
(i) Meet the credit enhancement requirements of § 1268.5;
(ii) Are issued pursuant to an agreement between the Bank and a participating financial institution to share risks consistent with the requirements of this part; and
(iii) Are acquired substantially by the initiating Bank or Banks.
§ 1268.4
Member or housing associate nexus requirement.
(a)
General provision.
To qualify as AMA, any assets described in § 1268.3 must be acquired in a purchase or funding transaction only from:
(1) A participating financial institution, provided that the asset was:
(i) Originated or issued by, through, or on behalf of the participating financial institution, or an affiliate thereof; or
(ii) Held for a valid business purpose by the participating financial institution, or an affiliate thereof, prior to acquisition by the Bank; or
(2) Another Bank, provided that the asset was originally acquired by the selling Bank consistent with this section.
(b)
Special provision for housing finance agency bonds.
In the case of housing finance agency bonds acquired by a Bank from a housing associate located in the district of another Bank (local Bank), the arrangement required by the definition of “participating financial institution” in § 1268.1 between the acquiring Bank and the local Bank may be reached in accordance with the following process:
(1) The housing finance agency shall first offer the local Bank right of first refusal to purchase, or negotiate the terms of, its proposed bond offering;
(2) If the local Bank indicates, within three business days, it will negotiate in good faith to purchase the bonds, the housing finance agency may not offer to sell or negotiate the terms of a purchase with another Bank; and
(3) If the local Bank declines the offer, or has failed to respond within three business days, the acquiring Bank will be considered to have an arrangement with the local Bank for purposes of this section and may offer to buy or negotiate the terms of a bond sale with the housing finance agency.
§ 1268.5
Credit risk-sharing requirement.
(a)
General credit risk-sharing requirement.
For each AMA product, the Bank shall implement and have in place at all times, a credit risk-sharing structure that:
(1) Requires a participating financial institution to provide the credit enhancement necessary to enhance an eligible asset or pool to the credit quality specified by the terms and conditions of the AMA product, provided, however, that such credit enhancement results in the eligible asset or pool being at least AMA investment grade, as defined in § 1268.1; and
(2) Meets the requirements of this section.
(b)
Determination of necessary credit enhancement.
(1) No later than 30 calendar days after the purchase of the asset or after a pool closes, the Bank shall determine the total credit enhancement necessary to enhance the asset or pool to at least AMA investment grade and to be consistent with the terms and conditions of a specific AMA product. The enhancement shall be for the life of the asset or pool. The Bank shall make this determination for each AMA product using a model and methodology that the Bank deems
appropriate, subject to paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) A Bank shall document its basis for concluding that the contractual credit enhancement required from each participating financial institution with regard to a particular asset or pool will equal or exceed the credit enhancement level specified in the terms and conditions of the AMA product and determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Credit risk-sharing structure.
Under any credit risk-sharing structure, the credit enhancement provided by the participating financial institution shall at all times meet the following requirements:
(1) The participating financial institution that is providing the credit enhancement required under this paragraph (c) shall in all cases:
(i) Bear the direct economic consequences of actual credit losses on the asset or pool:
(A) From the first dollar of loss up to the amount of expected losses; or
(B) Immediately following expected losses, but in an amount equal to or exceeding the amount of expected losses; and
(ii) Fully secure its direct credit enhancement obligation in accordance with § 1266.7; and
(2) The participating financial institution also may provide all or a portion of the credit enhancement, with the approval of the Bank, by:
(i) Contracting with an insurance affiliate of that participating financial institution to provide an enhancement, but only where such insurance is positioned in the credit risk-sharing structure so as to cover only losses remaining after the participating financial institution has borne losses as required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section;
(ii) Purchasing loan-level insurance only where:
(A) The participating financial institution is legally obligated at all times to maintain such insurance with a qualified insurer; and
(B) Such insurance is positioned in the credit enhancement structure so as to cover only losses remaining after the participating financial institution has borne losses as required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section;
(iii) Purchasing pool-level insurance only where:
(A) The participating financial institution is legally obligated at all times to maintain such insurance with a qualified insurer;
(B) Such insurance insures that portion of the required credit enhancement attributable to the geographic concentration and size of the pool; and
(C) Such insurance is positioned last in the credit enhancement structure so as to cover only those losses remaining after all other elements of the credit enhancement structure have been exhausted;
(iv) Contracting with another participating financial institution in the Bank's district to provide a credit enhancement consistent with this section, in return for compensation; or
(v) Contracting with a participating financial institution in another Bank's district, pursuant to an arrangement between the two Banks, to provide a credit enhancement consistent with this section, in return for compensation.
(d)
Loans guaranteed or insured by a department or agency of the U.S. government.
Instead of the structure set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, a participating financial institution also may provide the required credit enhancement through loan-level insurance that is issued by an agency or department of the U.S. government or is a guarantee from an agency or department of the U.S. government, provided that the government insurance or guarantee remains in place for as long as the Bank owns the loan.
(e)
Qualified insurers.
(1) Within one year of January 18, 2017, each Bank must develop, and subsequently maintain, written financial and operational standards that an insurer must meet for the Bank to approve it as a qualified insurer. A Bank shall review qualified insurers at least once every two years to determine whether they still meet the financial and operational standards set by the Bank. A Bank may delegate responsibility for development of these standards and approval of qualified insurers to another
Bank or group of Banks pursuant to § 1268.8.
(2) Only qualified insurers may provide private loan insurance on AMA eligible assets or the loan or pool insurance allowed as part of the credit enhancement structure for AMA products under paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section.
(f)
Appropriate methodology for calculating credit enhancement.
A Bank shall use a model and methodology for estimating the amount of credit enhancement for an asset or pool. A Bank shall provide to FHFA upon request information about the model and methodology, including and without limitation results of any model runs and the results of any tests of the model performed by the Bank. FHFA reserves the right to direct a Bank to make changes to its model and methodology, and a Bank promptly shall institute any such FHFA-directed changes.
§ 1268.6
Servicing of AMA loans.
(a) Servicing of AMA loans may be performed by or transferred to any institution, including an institution that is not a member of the Bank System, provided that the loans, after such transfer, continue to meet all requirements to qualify as AMA under §§ 1268.3, 1268.4, and 1268.5.
(b) The transfer of mortgage servicing rights and responsibilities must be approved by the Bank or Banks that own the loan or a participation interest in the loan.
(c) A Bank shall have in place policies and procedures to ensure that the transfer of mortgage servicing rights does not negatively affect the credit enhancement on the loans in question or substantially increase the Bank's exposure to the credit risk for the asset or pool.
§ 1268.7
Reporting requirements for acquired member assets.
Each Bank shall report information related to AMA in accordance with the instructions provided in the Data Reporting Manual issued by FHFA, as amended from time to time.
§ 1268.8
Administrative transactions and agreements between Banks.
(a)
Delegation of administrative duties.
A Bank may delegate the administration of an AMA program to another Bank whose administrative office has been examined and approved by FHFA, or previously examined and approved by the Federal Housing Finance Board, to process AMA transactions. The existence of such a delegation, or the possibility that such a delegation may be made, must be disclosed to any potential participating financial institution as part of any AMA-related agreements signed with that participating financial institution. A Bank may contract with one or more parties, including without limitation another Bank, to provide services related to the administration of its own AMA program or the AMA program of another Bank for which it has been delegated administrative responsibility, without the necessity for further disclosure to the participating financial institutions.
(b)
Termination of agreements.
Any agreement made between two or more Banks in connection with the administration of any AMA program may be terminated by any party after a reasonable notice period.
(c)
Delegation of pricing authority.
A Bank that has delegated its AMA pricing function to another Bank shall retain a right to refuse to acquire AMA at prices it does not consider appropriate, pursuant to contractual provisions among the parties.
Pt. 1269

# PART 1269—STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT
Sec.
1269.1
Definitions.
1269.2
Standby letters of credit on behalf of members.
1269.3
Standby letters of credit on behalf of housing associates.
1269.4
Obligation to Bank under all standby letters of credit.
1269.5
Additional provisions applying to all standby letters of credit.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1429, 1430, 1430b, 1431, 4511, 4513 and 4526.

# Source:
63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 65 FR 8256, Feb. 18, 2000, and further redesignated at 67
FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002, and 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010.
§ 1269.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Applicant
means a person or entity at whose request or for whose account a standby letter of credit is issued.
Beneficiary
means a person or entity who, under the terms of a standby letter of credit, is entitled to have its complying presentation honored.
Community lending
means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries, and, for community financial institutions (as defined in § 1263.1 of this title), purchasing or funding small business loans, small farm loans or small agri-business loans (as defined in § 1266.1 of this chapter).
Confirm
means to undertake, at the request or with the consent of the issuer, to honor a presentation under a standby letter of credit issued by a member or housing associate.
Document
means a draft or other demand, document of title, investment security, certificate, invoice, or other record, statement, or representation of fact, law, right, or opinion that is presented under the terms of a standby letter of credit.
Issuer
means a person or entity that issues a standby letter of credit.
Presentation
means delivery of a document to an issuer, or an entity that has undertaken a confirmation at the request or with the consent of the issuer, for the giving of value under a standby letter of credit.
Residential housing finance
means:
(1) The purchase or funding of “residential housing finance assets,” as that term is defined in § 1266.1 of this chapter; or
(2) Other activities that support the development or construction of residential housing.
SHFA associate
means a housing associate that is a “state housing finance agency,” as that term is defined in § 1264.1 of this chapter, and that has met the requirements of § 1269.3(b) of this chapter.
Standby letter of credit
means a definite undertaking by an issuer on behalf of an applicant that represents an obligation to the beneficiary, pursuant to a complying presentation: to repay money borrowed by, advanced to, or for the account of the applicant; to make payment on account of any indebtedness undertaken by the applicant; or to make payment on account of any default by the applicant in the performance of an obligation. The term
standby letter of credit
does not include a commercial letter of credit, or any short-term self-liquidating instrument used to finance the movement of goods.
[63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 1269.2
Standby letters of credit on behalf of members.
(a)
Authority and purposes.
Each Bank is authorized to issue or confirm on behalf of members standby letters of credit that comply with the requirements of this part, for any of the following purposes:
(1) To assist members in facilitating residential housing finance;
(2) To assist members in facilitating community lending;
(3) To assist members with asset/liability management; or
(4) To provide members with liquidity or other funding.
(b)
Fully secured.
A Bank, at the time it issues or confirms a standby letter of credit on behalf of a member, shall obtain and maintain a security interest in collateral that is sufficient to secure fully the member's unconditional obligation described in § 1269.4(a)(2) of this part, and that complies with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Eligible collateral.
(1) Any standby letter of credit issued or confirmed on behalf of a member may be secured in accordance with the requirements for advances under § 1266.7 of this chapter.
(2) A standby letter of credit issued or confirmed on behalf of a member for a purpose described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may, in addition to the collateral described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, be secured by obligations of state or local government units or agencies, where such obligations have a readily ascertainable
value, can be reliably discounted to account for liquidation and other risks, and can be liquidated in due course.
[63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 1269.3
Standby letters of credit on behalf of housing associates.
(a)
Housing associates.
Each Bank is authorized to issue or confirm on behalf of housing associates standby letters of credit that are fully secured by collateral described in § 1266.17(b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this chapter, and that otherwise comply with the requirements of this part, for any of the following purposes:
(1) To assist housing associates in facilitating residential housing finance;
(2) To assist housing associates in facilitating community lending;
(3) To assist housing associates with asset/liability management; or
(4) To provide housing associates with liquidity or other funding.
(b)
SHFA associates.
Each Bank is authorized to issue or confirm on behalf of SHFA associates standby letters of credit that are fully secured by collateral described in § 1266.17(b)(2)(i)(A),(B) or (C) of this chapter, and that otherwise comply with the requirements of this part, for the purpose of facilitating residential or commercial mortgage lending that benefits individuals or families meeting the income requirements in section 142(d) or 143(f) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 142(d) or 143(f)).
[63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 1269.4
Obligation to Bank under all standby letters of credit.
(a)
Obligation to reimburse.
A Bank may issue or confirm a standby letter of credit only on behalf of a member or housing associate that has:
(1) Established with the Bank a cash account pursuant to §§ 1266.17(b)(2)(i)(B), 1266.17(d), or 1270.3 of this chapter; and
(2) Assumed an unconditional obligation to reimburse the Bank for value given by the Bank to the beneficiary under the terms of the standby letter of credit by depositing immediately available funds into the account described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section not later than the date of the Bank's payment of funds to the beneficiary.
(b)
Prompt action to recover funds.
If a member or housing associate fails to fulfill the obligation described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Bank shall take action promptly to recover the funds that such member or housing associate is obligated to repay.
(c)
Obligation financed by advance.
Notwithstanding the obligations and duties of the Bank and its member or housing associate under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Bank may, at its discretion, permit such member or housing associate to finance repayment of the obligation described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by receiving an advance that complies with sections 10 or 10b of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430(b)) and part 1266 of this title.
[63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1269.5
Additional provisions applying to all standby letters of credit.
(a)
Requirements.
Each standby letter of credit issued or confirmed by a Bank shall:
(1) Contain a specific expiration date, or be for a specific term; and
(2) Require approval in advance by the Bank of any transfer of the standby letter of credit from the original beneficiary to another person or entity.
(b)
Additional collateral provisions.
(1) A Bank may take such steps as it deems necessary to protect its secured position on standby letters of credit, including requiring additional collateral, whether or not such additional collateral conforms to the requirements of § 1269.2 or § 1269.3.3 of this part.
(2) Collateral pledged by a member or housing associate to secure a letter of
credit issued or confirmed on its behalf by a Bank shall be subject to the provisions of §§ 1266.7(d), 1266.7(e), 1266.8, 1266.9 and 1266.10 of this chapter.
[63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010]
Pt. 1270

# PART 1270—LIABILITIES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1270.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Sources of Funds
1270.2
Authorized liabilities.
1270.3
Deposits from members.

# Subpart C—Consolidated Obligations
1270.4
Issuance of consolidated obligations.
1270.5
Bank operations.
1270.6
Transactions in consolidated obligations.
1270.7
Lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced consolidated obligations.
1270.8
Administrative provision.
1270.9
Conditions for issuance of consolidated obligations.
1270.10
Joint and several liability.
1270.11
Savings clause.

# Subpart D—Book-Entry Procedure for Consolidated Obligations
1270.12
Law governing rights and obligations of Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance, United States and Federal Reserve Banks; rights of any Person against Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance, United States and Federal Reserve Banks.
1270.13
Law governing other interests.
1270.14
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
1270.15
Obligations of the Banks and the Office of Finance; no Adverse Claims.
1270.16
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
1270.17
Liability of Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance and Federal Reserve Banks.
1270.18
Additional requirements; notice of attachment for Book-entry consolidated obligations.
1270.19
Reference to certain Department of Treasury commentary and determinations.
1270.20
Consolidated obligations are not obligations of the United States or guaranteed by the United States.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1431, 1432, 1435, 4511, 4512, 4513, and 4526.

# Source:
76 FR 18369, Apr. 4, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1270.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires or indicates:
Adverse Claim
means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Book-entry consolidated obligation and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.
Book-entry consolidated obligation
means a consolidated obligation maintained in the book-entry system of the Federal Reserve Banks.
Consolidated obligation
means any bond, debenture or note on which the Banks are jointly and severally liable and which was issued under section 11 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431) and in accordance with any implementing regulations, whether or not such instrument was originally issued jointly by the Banks or by the Federal Housing Finance Board on behalf of the Banks.
Deposits in banks or trust companies
means:
(1) A deposit in another Bank;
(2) A demand account in a Federal Reserve Bank;
(3) A deposit in, or a sale of Federal funds to:
(i) An insured depository institution, as defined in section 2(9)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(9)(A)), that is designated by a Bank's board of directors;
(ii) A trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System or insured by the FDIC, and is designated by a Bank's board of directors; or
(iii) A U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank, as defined in the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
), that is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, and is designated by a Bank's board of directors.
Entitlement Holder
means a Person or a Bank to whose account an interest in a Book-entry consolidated obligation is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Federal Reserve Bank
means a Federal Reserve Bank or branch, acting as fiscal agent for the Office of Finance, unless otherwise indicated.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Federal Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.
Federal Reserve Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Funds account
means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, Book-entry Securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
Non-complying Bank
means a Bank that has failed to provide the liquidity certification as required under § 1270.10(b)(1).
Office of Finance
means the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Banks established under part 1273 of this chapter and referenced in the Bank Act and the Safety and Soundness Act, including the Office of Finance acting as agent of the Banks in all matters relating to the issuance of Book-entry consolidated obligations and in the performance of all other necessary and proper functions relating to Book-entry consolidated obligations, including the payment of principal and interest due thereon.
Participant
means a Person or a Bank that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participant's Securities Account
means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry consolidated obligations held for a Participant are or may be credited.
Person
means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include a Bank, the Director, FHFA, the Office of Finance, the United States, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Repurchase agreement
means an agreement in which a Bank sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase those securities or similar securities at an agreed upon price, with or without a stated time for repurchase.
Revised Article 8
means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611.
SBIC
means a small business investment company formed pursuant to section 301 of the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 681).
Securities Intermediary
means:
(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the Federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry consolidated obligation that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the Federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a Federal or State governmental authority; or (2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the Federal securities laws), including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.
Security Entitlement
means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry consolidated obligation.
Transfer Message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry consolidated obligation, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
[76 FR 18369, Apr. 4, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]

# Subpart B—Sources of Funds
§ 1270.2
Authorized liabilities.
As a source of funds for business operations, each Bank is authorized to incur liabilities by:
(a) Accepting proceeds from the issuance of consolidated obligations issued in accordance with this part;
(b) Accepting time or demand deposits from members, other Banks or instrumentalities of the United States, and cash accounts from associates or members pursuant to §§ 1266.17(b)(2)(i)(B), 1266.17(d) and 1269.4(a)(1) of this chapter, or § 1270.3 of this part, or from other institutions for which the Bank is providing correspondent services pursuant to section 11(e) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(e));
(c) Purchasing Federal funds; and
(d) Entering into repurchase agreements.
§ 1270.3
Deposits from members.
(a) Banks may accept demand and time deposits from members, reserving the right to require notice of intention to withdraw any part of time deposits. Rates of interest paid on all deposits shall be set by the Bank's board of directors (or, between regular meetings thereof, by a committee of directors selected by the board) or by the Bank President, if so authorized by the board. Unless otherwise specified by the board, a Bank President may delegate to any officer or employee of the Bank any authority he possesses under this section.
(b) Each Bank shall at all times have at least an amount equal to the current deposits received from its members invested in:
(1) Obligations of the United States;
(2) Deposits in banks or trust companies; or
(3) Advances with a remaining maturity not to exceed five years that are made to members in conformity with part 1266 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Consolidated Obligations
§ 1270.4
Issuance of consolidated obligations.
(a)
Consolidated obligations issued by the Banks
—(1) Subject to the provisions of this part and such other rules, regulations, terms, and conditions as the Director may prescribe, the Banks may issue joint debt under section 11(c) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(c)), which shall be consolidated obligations, on which the Banks shall be jointly and severally liable in accordance with § 1270.10 of this part.
(2) Consolidated obligations shall be issued only through the Office of Finance, as agent of the Banks pursuant to this part and part 1273 of this chapter.
(3) All consolidated obligations shall be issued in
pari passu.
(b)
Negative pledge
requirement.
Each Bank shall at all times maintain assets described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section free from any lien or pledge, in an amount at least equal to a
pro rata
share of the total amount of currently outstanding consolidated obligations and equal to such Bank's participation in all such consolidated obligations outstanding, provided that any assets that are subject to a lien or pledge for the benefit of the holders of any issue of consolidated obligations shall be treated as if they were assets free from any lien or pledge for purposes of compliance with this paragraph (b). Eligible assets are:
(1) Cash;
(2) Obligations of or fully guaranteed by the United States;
(3) Secured advances;
(4) Mortgages as to which one or more Banks have any guaranty or insurance, or commitment therefor, by the United States or any agency thereof; and
(5) Investments described in section 16(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1436(a)).
[76 FR 18369, Apr. 4, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 1270.5
Bank operations.
The Banks, individually and collectively, shall operate in such manner
and take any actions necessary, including without limitation reducing leverage, to ensure that consolidated obligations maintain a high level of acceptance by financial markets and are generally perceived by investors as presenting a low level of credit risk.
[78 FR 67009. Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 1270.6
Transactions in consolidated obligations.
The general regulations of the Department of the Treasury now or hereafter in force governing transactions in United States securities, except 31 CFR part 357 regarding book-entry procedure, are hereby incorporated into this subpart C of this part, so far as applicable and as necessarily modified to relate to consolidated obligations, as the regulations of FHFA for similar transactions on consolidated obligations. The book-entry procedure for consolidated obligations is contained in subpart D of this part.
§ 1270.7
Lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced consolidated obligations.
United States statutes and regulations of the Department of the Treasury now or hereafter in force governing relief on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of United States securities, so far as applicable and as necessarily modified to relate to consolidated obligations, are hereby adopted as the regulations of FHFA for the issuance of substitute consolidated obligations or the payment of lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced consolidated obligations.
§ 1270.8
Administrative provision.
The Secretary of the Treasury or the Acting Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and empowered, as the agent of FHFA and the Banks, to administer §§ 1270.6 and 1270.7, and to delegate such authority at their discretion to other officers, employees, and agents of the Department of the Treasury. Any such regulations may be waived on behalf of FHFA and the Banks by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Acting Secretary of the Treasury, or by an officer of the Department of the Treasury authorized to waive similar regulations with respect to United States securities, but only in any particular case in which a similar regulation with respect to United States securities would be waived. The terms “securities” and “bonds” as used in this section shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include and apply to coupons and interim certificates.
§ 1270.9
Conditions for issuance of consolidated obligations.
(a) The Office of Finance board of directors shall authorize the offering for current and forward settlement (up to 12 months) or the reopening of consolidated obligations, as necessary, and authorize the maturities, rates of interest, terms and conditions thereof, subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9108.
(b) Consolidated obligations may be offered for sale only to the extent that Banks are committed to take the proceeds.
(c) Consolidated obligations shall not be purchased by any Bank as part of an initial issuance whether such consolidated obligation is purchased directly from the Office of Finance or indirectly from an underwriter.
(d) If the Banks issue consolidated obligations denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars or linked to equity or commodity prices, then any Bank accepting proceeds from those consolidated obligations shall meet the following requirements with regard to such consolidated obligations:
(1) The relevant foreign exchange, equity price or commodity price risks associated with the consolidated obligation must be hedged in accordance with § 1267.4 of this chapter;
(2) If there is a default on the part of a counterparty to a contract hedging the foreign exchange, equity or commodity price risk associated with a consolidated obligation, the Bank shall enter into a replacement contract in a timely manner and as soon as market conditions permit.
[76 FR 18369, Apr. 4, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1270.10
Joint and several liability.
(a)
In general
—(1) Each and every Bank, individually and collectively, has an obligation to make full and
timely payment of all principal and interest on consolidated obligations when due.
(2) Each and every Bank, individually and collectively, shall ensure that the timely payment of principal and interest on all consolidated obligations is given priority over, and is paid in full in advance of, any payment to or redemption of shares from any shareholder.
(3) The provisions of this part shall not limit, restrict or otherwise diminish, in any manner, the joint and several liability of all of the Banks on any consolidated obligation.
(b)
Certification and reporting
—(1) Before the end of each calendar quarter, and before declaring or paying any dividend for that quarter, the President of each Bank shall certify in writing to FHFA that, based on known current facts and financial information, the Bank will remain in compliance with the liquidity requirements set forth in section 11(g) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(g)), and any regulations (as the same may be amended, modified or replaced), and will remain capable of making full and timely payment of all of its current obligations, including direct obligations, coming due during the next quarter.
(2) A Bank shall immediately provide written notice to FHFA if at any time the Bank:
(i) Is unable to provide the certification required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Projects at any time that it will fail to comply with statutory or regulatory liquidity requirements, or will be unable to timely and fully meet all of its current obligations, including direct obligations, due during the quarter;
(iii) Actually fails to comply with statutory or regulatory liquidity requirements or to timely and fully meet all of its current obligations, including direct obligations, due during the quarter; or
(iv) Negotiates to enter or enters into an agreement with one or more other Banks to obtain financial assistance to meet its current obligations, including direct obligations, due during the quarter; the notice of which shall be accompanied by a copy of the agreement, which shall be subject to the approval of FHFA.
(c)
Consolidated obligation payment plans
—(1) A Bank promptly shall file a consolidated obligation payment plan for FHFA approval:
(i) If the Bank becomes a non-complying Bank as a result of failing to provide the certification required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) If the Bank becomes a non-complying Bank as a result of being required to provide the notice required pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except in the event that a failure to make a principal or interest payment on a consolidated obligation when due was caused solely by a temporary interruption in the Bank's debt servicing operations resulting from an external event such as a natural disaster or a power failure; or
(iii) If FHFA determines that the Bank will cease to be in compliance with the statutory or regulatory liquidity requirements, or will lack the capacity to timely and fully meet all of its current obligations, including direct obligations, due during the quarter.
(2) A consolidated obligation payment plan shall specify the measures the non-complying Bank will undertake to make full and timely payments of all of its current obligations, including direct obligations, due during the applicable quarter.
(3) A non-complying Bank may continue to incur and pay normal operating expenses incurred in the regular course of business (including salaries, benefits, or costs of office space, equipment and related expenses), but shall not incur or pay any extraordinary expenses, or declare, or pay dividends, or redeem any capital stock, until such time as FHFA has approved the Bank's consolidated obligation payment plan or inter-Bank assistance agreement, or ordered another remedy, and all of the non-complying Bank's direct obligations have been paid.
(d)
FHFA payment orders; Obligation to reimburse
—(1) FHFA, in its discretion and notwithstanding any other provision in this section, may at any time order any Bank to make any principal or interest payment due on any consolidated obligation.
(2) To the extent that a Bank makes any payment on any consolidated obligation on behalf of another Bank, the paying Bank shall be entitled to reimbursement from the non-complying Bank, which shall have a corresponding obligation to reimburse the Bank providing assistance, to the extent of such payment and other associated costs (including interest to be determined by FHFA).
(e)
Adjustment of equities
—(1) Any non-complying Bank shall apply its assets to fulfill its direct obligations.
(2) If a Bank is required to meet, or otherwise meets, the direct obligations of another Bank due to a temporary interruption in the latter Bank's debt servicing operations (
e.g.,
in the event of a natural disaster or power failure), the assisting Bank shall have the same right to reimbursement set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(3) If FHFA determines that the assets of a non-complying Bank are insufficient to satisfy all of its direct obligations as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then FHFA may allocate the outstanding liability among the remaining Banks on a
pro rata
basis in proportion to each Bank's participation in all consolidated obligations outstanding as of the end of the most recent month for which FHFA has data, or otherwise as FHFA may prescribe.
(f)
Reservation of authority.
Nothing in this section shall affect the Director's authority to adjust equities between the Banks in a manner different than the manner described in paragraph (e) of this section, or to take enforcement or other action against any Bank pursuant to the Director's authority under the Safety and Soundness Act or the Bank Act, or otherwise to supervise the Banks and ensure that they are operated in a safe and sound manner.
(g)
No rights created
—(1) Nothing in this part shall create or be deemed to create any rights in any third party.
(2) Payments made by a Bank toward the direct obligations of another Bank are made for the sole purpose of discharging the joint and several liability of the Banks on consolidated obligations.
(3) Compliance, or the failure to comply, with any provision in this section shall not be deemed a default under the terms and conditions of the consolidated obligations.
§ 1270.11
Savings clause.
Any agreements or other instruments entered into in connection with the issuance of consolidated obligations prior to the amendments made to this part shall continue in effect with respect to all consolidated obligations issued under the authority of section 11 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431) and pursuant to this part. References to consolidated obligations in such agreements and instruments shall be deemed to refer to all joint and several obligations of the Banks.

# Subpart D—Book-Entry Procedure for Consolidated Obligations
§ 1270.12
Law governing rights and obligations of Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance, United States and Federal Reserve Banks; rights of any Person against Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance, United States and Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the rights and obligations of the Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance, the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to: A Book-entry consolidated obligation or Security Entitlement and the operation of the Book-entry system, as it applies to consolidated obligations; and the rights of any Person, including a Participant, against the Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance, the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to: A Book-entry consolidated obligation or Security Entitlement and the operation of the Book-entry system, as it applies to consolidated obligations; are governed solely by regulations of FHFA, including the regulations of this part 1270, the applicable offering notice, applicable procedures established by the Office of Finance, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to
§ 1270.14(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 1270.14(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in § 1270.13.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8, then the law specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.
§ 1270.13
Law governing other interests.
(a) To the extent not inconsistent with this part 1270, the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction governs:
(1) The acquisition of a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary;
(2) The rights and duties of the Securities Intermediary and Entitlement Holder arising out of a Security Entitlement;
(3) Whether the Securities Intermediary owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a Security Entitlement;
(4) Whether an Adverse Claim can be asserted against a Person who acquires a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary or a Person who purchases a Security Entitlement or interest therein from an Entitlement Holder; and
(5) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection, and priority of a security interest in a Security Entitlement.
(b) The following rules determine a “Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction” for purposes of this section:
(1) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder specifies that it is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(2) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify the governing law as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but expressly specifies that the securities account is maintained at an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(3) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the office identified in an account statement as the office serving the Entitlement Holder's account.
(4) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and an account statement does not identify an office serving the Entitlement Holder's account as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the chief executive office of the Securities Intermediary.
(c) Notwithstanding the general rule in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the law (but not the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction in which the Person creating a security interest is located governs whether and how the security interest may be perfected automatically or by filing a financing statement.
(d) If the jurisdiction specified in paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8, then the law for the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State. For purposes of the application of the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Securities Account is a clearing corporation, and the Participant's interest in a Bank Book-entry Security is a Security Entitlement.
§ 1270.14
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry consolidated obligation has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including, without limitation, deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the Securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Federal Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the Security. For purposes of this paragraph (b), an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) The Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance, the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in a Security Entitlement in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the Securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 1270.12(b) or § 1270.13. The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection, and priority of a security interest are governed by that applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under that law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of the security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
§ 1270.15
Obligations of the Banks and the Office of Finance; no Adverse Claims.
(a) Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 1270.14(c)(1), for the purposes of this part 1270, the Banks, the Office of Finance and the Federal Reserve Banks shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry consolidated obligations has been credited as the person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to the Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. Neither the Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance, the United States, nor the Federal Reserve Banks are liable to a Person asserting or having an Adverse Claim to a Security Entitlement or to Book-entry consolidated obligations in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer
or disposition of a Book-entry consolidated obligation by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(b) The obligation of the Banks and the Office of Finance to make payments of interest and principal with respect to Book-entry consolidated obligations is discharged at the time payment in the appropriate amount is made as follows:
(1) Interest on Book-entry consolidated obligations is either credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Funds Account maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise paid as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry consolidated obligations are paid, either at maturity or upon redemption, in accordance with their terms by a Federal Reserve Bank withdrawing the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained and by either crediting the amount of the proceeds, including both principal and interest, where applicable, to a Funds Account at the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise paying such principal and interest as directed by the Participant. No action by the Participant is required in connection with the payment of a Book-entry consolidated obligation, unless otherwise expressly required.
§ 1270.16
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as fiscal agent of the Office of Finance: To perform functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry consolidated obligations, in accordance with the terms of the applicable offering notice and with procedures established by the Office of Finance; to service and maintain Book-entry consolidated obligations in accounts established for such purposes; to make payments of principal, interest and redemption premium (if any), as directed by the Office of Finance; to effect transfer of Book-entry consolidated obligations between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants; and to perform such other duties as fiscal agent as may be requested by the Office of Finance.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Operating Circulars not inconsistent with this part 1270, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry consolidated obligations, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the Book-entry system under this part 1270.
§ 1270.17
Liability of Banks, FHFA, Office of Finance and Federal Reserve Banks.
The Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a tender, transaction request form, other transaction documentation, or Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. Neither the Banks, FHFA, the Director, the Office of Finance, the United States, nor the Federal Reserve Banks shall be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a tender, transaction request form, other transaction documentation, or Transfer Message, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
§ 1270.18
Additional requirements; notice of attachment for Book-entry consolidated obligations.
(a)
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under the regulations in this part 1270, the Office of Finance may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in its judgment, or in the judgment of the Banks or FHFA, be necessary for the protection of the interests of the Banks, FHFA, the Office of Finance or the United States.
(b)
Notice of attachment.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. The regulations in this part 1270 do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.
§ 1270.19
Reference to certain Department of Treasury commentary and determinations.
Notwithstanding provisions in § 1270.6 regarding Department of Treasury regulations set forth in 31 CFR part 357:
(a) The Department of Treasury TRADES Commentary (31 CFR part 357, appendix B) addressing the Department of Treasury regulations governing book-entry procedure for Treasury Securities is hereby referenced, so far as applicable and as necessarily modified to relate to Book-entry consolidated obligations, as an interpretive aid to this subpart D of this part.
(b) Determinations of the Department of Treasury regarding whether a State shall be considered to have adopted Revised Article 8 for purposes of 31 CFR part 357, as published in the
Federal Register
or otherwise, shall also apply to this subpart D of this part.
§ 1270.20
Consolidated obligations are not obligations of the United States or guaranteed by the United States.
Consolidated obligations are not obligations of the United States and are not guaranteed by the United States.
Pt. 1271

# PART 1271—MISCELLANEOUS FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OPERATIONS AND AUTHORITIES

# Subpart A—Collection, Settlement, and Processing of Payment Instruments
Sec.
1271.1
Definitions.
1271.2
Authority and scope.
1271.3
General provisions.
1271.4
Incidental powers.
1271.5
Operations.
1271.6
Pricing of services.
1271.7
Rights, powers, responsibilities, duties, and liabilities.

# Subpart B—Miscellaneous Bank Authorities
1271.10
Transfer of funds between Banks.
1271.11
Trustee powers.

# Subpart C—Bank Requests for Information
1271.15
Definitions.
1271.16
Scope.
1271.17
Request for confidential regulatory information.
1271.18
Form of request.
1271.19
Storage of confidential regulatory information.
1271.20
Access to confidential regulatory information.
1271.21
Third party requests for confidential regulatory information.
1271.22
Computer data.

# Subpart D—Financing Corporation Operations
1271.30
Definitions.
1271.31
General authority.
1271.32
Authority to establish investment policies and procedures.
1271.33
Book-entry procedure for Financing Corporation obligations.
1271.34
Bank and Office of Finance employees.
1271.35
Budget and expenses.
1271.36
Administrative expenses.
1271.37
Non-administrative expenses; assessments.
1271.38
Reports to FHFA.
1271.39
Review of books and records.

# Subpart E—Authority for Bank Assistance of the Resolution Funding Corporation
1271.41
Bank employees.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430, 1431, 1432, 1441(b)(8), (c), (j), 1442, 4511(b), 4513(a), 4526.

# Source:
78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Collection, Settlement, and Processing of Payment Instruments
§ 1271.1
Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the terms used in this subpart shall conform, in the following order, to: Regulations of FHFA, the Uniform Commercial Code, regulations of the Federal Reserve System, and general banking usage. As used in this subpart:
Account processing
includes charging, crediting, and settling of member or eligible institution accounts, excluding individual customer accounts.
Assets
includes furniture and equipment, leasehold improvements, and capitalized start-up costs.
Data communication
means transmitting and receiving of data to or from Banks, Federal Reserve offices, clearinghouse associations, depository institutions or their service bureaus, and other direct sending entities; arrangement for delivery of information; and telephone inquiry service.
Data processing
includes capture, storage, and assembling of, and computation of, data from payment instruments received from Federal Reserve offices, Banks, clearinghouse associations, depository institutions, and other direct lending entities.
Eligible institution
means any institution that is eligible to make application to become a member of a Bank under section 4 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424), including any building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, insurance company, savings bank, community development financial institution, or any insured depository institution (as defined in section 2(9) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(9))), regardless of whether the institution applies for or would be approved for membership.
Issuance of forms
means the designation and distribution of standardized forms for use in collection, processing, and settlement services.
Presentment
means a demand for acceptance or payment made upon the maker, acceptor, drawee or other payor by or on behalf of the holder, and may involve the use of electronic transmission of an instrument or item or transmission of data from the instrument or item by electronic or mechanical means.
Statement packaging
includes receiving statement information from members or eligible institutions or their service bureaus on respective customer cycle dates; printing statements; matching customer account statements; packaging the statements with appropriate items and informational materials, as authorized by individual members and eligible institutions, for distribution to their customers; sending the packages to the members or eligible institutions or mailing the packages directly to their customers.
Storage services
includes filing, storage, and truncation of items.
Transportation of items
includes transporting items from Federal Reserve offices, other Banks' clearinghouse associations, depository institutions, and other direct sending entities to a Bank; forwarding items to financial institutions after sorting; and forwarding cash items or return items to Federal Reserve offices and other sending entities.
§ 1271.2
Authority and scope.
(a) Pursuant to section 11(e)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(e)(2)), FHFA has promulgated this subpart governing the collection, processing, and settlement, and services incidental thereto, of drafts, checks, and other negotiable and nonnegotiable items and instruments by Banks. Settlement, collection, and processing include the following activities as defined in this subpart: Account processing, data processing, data communication, issuance of forms, transportation of items, and storage services.
(b) Any activity authorized by section 11(e)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(e)(2)) shall be governed by the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1271.3
General provisions.
The Banks are authorized to:
(a) Engage in, be agents or intermediaries for, or otherwise participate or assist in, the processing, collection, and settlement of checks, drafts, or any other negotiable or nonnegotiable items and instruments of payment drawn on eligible institutions or Bank members; and
(b) Be drawees of checks, drafts, and other negotiable and nonnegotiable items and instruments issued by eligible institutions or Bank members.
§ 1271.4
Incidental powers.
In connection with the collection, processing, and settlement of items and instruments drawn on or issued by eligible institutions or Bank members, a Bank may also perform the following services:
(a) Statement packaging; and
(b) Any other activity that FHFA shall, from time to time, after notice and comment, find necessary for the exercise of the authority of this subpart.
§ 1271.5
Operations.
A Bank may utilize the services of a Federal Reserve Bank and may become a member or use the services of a clearinghouse, public or private financial institution, or agency in the exercise of
any powers or functions under this subpart.
§ 1271.6
Pricing of services.
(a)
General.
Banks shall charge for services authorized in this subpart in a manner consistent with the principles of section 11A(c) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248a(c)), as interpreted by this subpart.
(b)
Payment instrument account services.
(1) In determining the fees for services provided under this subpart, a Bank must take into account all direct and indirect costs of providing the services.
(2) Prices must reflect the imputed rate of return that would have been earned and the taxes that would have been paid if the Bank were a private corporation, by using a cost of capital adjustment factor applied to those assets used in providing services authorized under this subpart.
(c)
Review and publication.
For any year during which any Bank actually provides services authorized by this subpart:
(1) FHFA shall from time to time and at least annually review the cost of capital adjustment factor and review prices for services authorized in this subpart for compliance with the principles set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and
(2) FHFA shall annually publish in the
Federal Register
all prices for Bank services authorized in this subpart except those for fees charged to an applicant for draws made by a beneficiary under a standby letter of credit.
§ 1271.7
Rights, powers, responsibilities, duties, and liabilities.
To the extent it is not inconsistent with other provisions of this subpart, the Uniform Commercial Code governs the rights, powers, responsibilities, duties, and liabilities of Banks in the exercise of their authority under this subpart. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “bank,” as used in the Uniform Commercial Code and clearinghouse rules, includes Banks and their members and eligible institutions.

# Subpart B—Miscellaneous Bank Authorities
§ 1271.10
Transfer of funds between Banks.
Inter-Bank borrowing shall be through unsecured deposits bearing interest at rates negotiated between Banks.
§ 1271.11
Trustee powers.
A Bank may act, and make reasonable charges for doing so, as trustee of any trust affecting the business of any member or any institution or group applying for membership, if:
(a) Such trust is created or arises for the benefit of the institution or its depositors, investors, or borrowers, or for the promotion of sound and economical home financing; and
(b) In the case of applicants, the Bank ceases to act as trustee if the application is withdrawn or rejected.

# Subpart C—Bank Requests for Information
§ 1271.15
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Confidential regulatory information
means any record, data, or report, including but not limited to examination reports, or any part thereof, that is non-public, privileged or otherwise not intended for public disclosure which is in the possession or control of a financial regulatory agency and which contains information regarding members of a Bank or financial institutions with which a Bank has had or contemplates having transactions under the Bank Act.
Financial regulatory agency
means any of the following:
(1) The Department of the Treasury, including the Comptroller of the Currency;
(2) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(3) The National Credit Union Administration; or
(4) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Third party
means any person or entity except a director, officer, employee or agent of either:
(1) A Bank in possession of any particular confidential regulatory information; or
(2) The financial regulatory agency that supplied the particular confidential regulatory information to such Bank.
§ 1271.16
Scope.
This subpart governs the procedure by which a Bank will request and receive confidential regulatory information pursuant to section 22 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1442).
§ 1271.17
Request for confidential regulatory information.
A Bank shall make all requests for confidential regulatory information to a financial regulatory agency, or to a regional office of such agency if mutually agreeable, in accordance with the procedures contained in this subpart as well as any procedures of general applicability for requesting information promulgated by such financial regulatory agency. This subpart and its procedures may be supplemented by a confidentiality agreement between a Bank and a financial regulatory agency.
§ 1271.18
Form of request.
A request by a Bank to a financial regulatory agency for confidential regulatory information shall be made in writing or by such other means as may be agreed upon between the Bank and the financial regulatory agency. The request shall reference section 22 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1442), as amended, and this regulation, and shall describe the confidential regulatory information requested and identify its intended use pursuant to the Bank Act. The request shall be signed or otherwise made by any duly authorized Bank officer or employee.
§ 1271.19
Storage of confidential regulatory information.
Each Bank shall:
(a) Store all identified confidential regulatory information in secure storage areas or filing cabinets or other secured facilities generally used by such Bank and limit access thereto in the same manner as it maintains the confidentiality of its own members' privileged or non-public information;
(b) Have in place a written set of procedures and policies designed to ensure the confidentiality of confidential regulatory information in its possession; and
(c) Establish an internal review of its procedures for storing confidential regulatory information and maintaining its confidentiality, as a part of its internal audit process.
§ 1271.20
Access to confidential regulatory information.
Each Bank shall ensure that access to the confidential regulatory information stored at its facility is limited to those with a need to know such information and that employees with access maintain the confidentiality of the confidential regulatory information in accordance with the Bank's own procedures for maintaining the confidentiality of its members' privileged or non-public information.
§ 1271.21
Third party requests for confidential regulatory information.
(a)
General.
In the event a Bank receives a request for confidential regulatory information in its possession from any third party, the Bank shall forward such request to the financial regulatory agency from which the confidential regulatory information was obtained.
(b)
Subpoena.
In the event a Bank receives a subpoena for confidential regulatory information issued by a Federal, state or local government department, agency, court or bureau, the Bank shall give timely written notice of such subpoena to the financial regulatory agency from which the confidential regulatory information was obtained, unless such notice is prohibited by applicable law. Except as limited in this subpart, the Bank may disclose confidential regulatory information pursuant to the subpoena, after giving timely written notice, when:
(1) The financial regulatory agency gives written approval to the disclosure; or
(2) A binding order to produce the confidential regulatory information has become final with all rights of appeal either exhausted or lapsed.
(c)
Nondisclosure to third parties.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Bank shall not disclose confidential regulatory information to any third party. A Bank shall refer all third party requests for such confidential regulatory information to the financial regulatory agency that released the confidential regulatory information to the Bank.
(d)
Disclosure to FHFA.
(1) Neither this subpart nor any confidentiality agreement executed between a Bank and a financial regulatory agency shall prevent a Bank from disclosing confidential regulatory information in its possession to FHFA whenever disclosure is necessary to accomplish FHFA's supervision of Bank membership applications or Bank director eligibility issues, or disclosing any confidential regulatory information in its possession if such disclosure is made pursuant to an audit conducted pursuant to § 1271.19 or section 20 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1440).
(2) FHFA shall keep all confidential regulatory information received under this paragraph (d) in strict confidence.
§ 1271.22
Computer data.
Nothing in this subpart shall preclude a Bank from arranging with any financial regulatory agency to transmit or allow access to confidential regulatory information with the consent of such agency by means of an electronic computer system. Any such arrangement shall ensure the security of the computerized data stored in a Bank's computer and restrict access to such data in order to preserve confidentiality in a manner agreed upon by the Bank and the financial regulatory agency.

# Subpart D—Financing Corporation Operations
§ 1271.30
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrative expenses.
(1) Include general office and operating expenses such as telephone and photocopy charges, printing, legal, and professional fees, postage, courier services, and office supplies; and
(2) Do not include any form of employee compensation, custodian fees, issuance costs, or any interest on (and any redemption premium with respect to) any Financing Corporation obligations.
Custodian fees
means any fee incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the transfer of any security to, or maintenance of any security in, the segregated account established under section 21(g)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(g)(2)), and any other expense incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the establishment or maintenance of such account.
Directorate
means the board established under section 21(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(b)) to manage the Financing Corporation.
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Issuance costs
means issuance fees and commissions incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the issuance or servicing of Financing Corporation obligations, including legal and accounting expenses, trustee, fiscal, and paying agent charges, securities processing charges, joint collection agent charges, advertising expenses, and costs incurred in connection with preparing and printing offering materials to the extent the Financing Corporation incurs such costs in connection with issuing any obligations.
Non-administrative expenses
means custodian fees, issuance costs, and interest on Financing Corporation obligations.
Obligations
means debentures, bonds, and similar debt securities issued by the Financing Corporation under sections 21(c)(3) and (e) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(c)(3) and (e)).
Receivership proceeds
means the liquidating dividends and payments made on claims received by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Resolution Fund established under section 11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821a) from receiverships, that are not required by the Resolution Funding Corporation to provide funds for the Funding Corporation Principal Fund established under
section 21B of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b).
§ 1271.31
General authority.
Subject to the limitations and interpretations in this subpart and such orders and directions as FHFA may prescribe, the Financing Corporation shall have authority to exercise all powers and authorities granted to it by the Bank Act and by its charter and bylaws regardless of whether the powers and authorities are specifically implemented in regulation.
§ 1271.32
Authority to establish investment policies and procedures.
The Directorate shall have authority to establish investment policies and procedures with respect to Financing Corporation funds provided that the investment policies and procedures are consistent with the requirements of section 21(g) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(g)). The Directorate shall promptly notify FHFA in writing of any changes to the investment policies and procedures.
§ 1271.33
Book-entry procedure for Financing Corporation obligations.
(a)
Authority.
Any Federal Reserve Bank shall have authority to apply book-entry procedure to Financing Corporation obligations.
(b)
Procedure.
The book-entry procedure for Financing Corporation obligations shall be governed by the book-entry procedure established for Bank consolidated obligations, codified at part 1270 of this chapter. Wherever the terms “Bank(s),” “consolidated obligation(s)” or “Book-entry consolidated obligation(s)” appear in part 1270, the terms shall be construed also to mean “Financing Corporation,” “Financing Corporation obligation(s),” or “Book-entry Financing Corporation obligation(s),” respectively, if appropriate to accomplish the purposes of this section.
§ 1271.34
Bank and Office of Finance employees.
Without further approval of FHFA, the Financing Corporation shall have authority to utilize the officers, employees, or agents of any Bank or the Office of Finance in such manner as may be necessary to carry out its functions.
§ 1271.35
Budget and expenses.
(a)
Directorate approval.
The Financing Corporation shall submit annually to the Directorate for approval, a budget of proposed expenditures for the next calendar year that includes administrative and non-administrative expenses.
(b)
FHFA approval.
The Directorate shall submit annually to FHFA for approval, the budget of the Financing Corporation's proposed expenditures it approved pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Spending limitation.
The Financing Corporation shall not exceed the amount provided for in the annual budget approved by FHFA pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or as it may be amended by the Directorate within limits set by FHFA.
(d)
Amended budgets.
Whenever the Financing Corporation projects or anticipates that it will incur expenditures, other than interest on Financing Corporation obligations, that exceed the amount provided for in the annual budget approved by FHFA or the Directorate pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Financing Corporation shall submit an amended annual budget to the Directorate for approval, and the Directorate shall submit such amended budget to FHFA for approval.
§ 1271.36
Administrative expenses.
(a)
Payment by Banks.
The Banks shall pay all administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved pursuant to § 1271.35.
(b)
Amount.
The Financing Corporation shall determine the amount of administrative expenses each Bank shall pay in the manner provided by section 21(b)(7)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(b)(7)(B)). The Financing Corporation shall bill each Bank for such amount periodically.
(c)
Adjustments.
The Financing Corporation shall adjust the amount of administrative expenses the Banks are required to pay in any calendar year pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, by deducting any funds that remain from the amount paid by
the Banks for administrative expenses in the prior calendar year.
§ 1271.37
Non-administrative expenses; assessments.
(a)
Interest expenses.
The Financing Corporation shall determine anticipated interest expenses on its obligations at least semiannually.
(b)
Assessments on insured depository institutions
—(1)
Authority.
To provide sufficient funds to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35, the Financing Corporation shall, with the approval of the board of directors of the FDIC, assess against each insured depository institution an assessment in the same manner as assessments are made by the FDIC under section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817).
(2)
Assessment rate
—(i)
Determination.
The Financing Corporation at least semiannually shall establish an assessment rate formula, which may include rounding methodology, to determine the rate or rates of the assessment it will assess against insured depository institutions pursuant to section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Notice.
The Financing Corporation shall notify the FDIC and the collection agent, if any, of the formula established under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Collecting assessments
—(i)
Collection agent.
The Financing Corporation shall have authority to collect assessments made under section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section through a collection agent of its choosing.
(ii)
Accounts.
Each Bank shall permit any insured depository institution whose principal place of business is in its district to establish and maintain at least one demand deposit account to facilitate collection of the assessments made under section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Receivership proceeds
—(1)
Authority.
To the extent the amounts collected under paragraph (b) of this section are insufficient to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35, the Financing Corporation shall have authority to require the FDIC to transfer receivership proceeds to the Financing Corporation in accordance with section 21(f)(3) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(3)).
(2)
Procedure.
The Directorate shall request in writing that the FDIC transfer the receivership proceeds to the Financing Corporation. Such request shall specify the estimated amount of funds required to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35.
(d)(1)
Final assessments.
All Financing Corporation assessments collected during 2019 shall be final. Subsequent to March 29, 2019, no insured depository institution shall have any right to receive refunds for any overpayment of any prior Financing Corporation assessments nor shall it be billed for any underpayment of any prior Financing Corporation assessments that arise as a result of an amendment to any Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income on which the prior Financing Corporation assessment had been based.
(2)
Amendments to call reports.
Amendments to an institution's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for quarters prior to and including the fourth quarter of 2018 shall not affect an institution's Financing Corporation assessments after March 26, 2019.
(3)
June 2019 assessment.
In the event Financing Corporation assessments are collected in June 2019, amendments to an institution's first quarter 2019 Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income that are submitted after June 25, 2019 shall not affect the institution's Financing Corporation assessment.
[78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 63058, Dec. 7, 2018]
§ 1271.38
Reports to FHFA.
The Financing Corporation shall file such reports as FHFA shall direct.
§ 1271.39
Review of books and records.
FHFA shall examine the Financing Corporation at least annually to determine whether the Financing Corporation is performing its functions in accordance with the requirements of section 21 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441) and this subpart.

# Subpart E—Authority for Bank Assistance of the Resolution Funding Corporation
§ 1271.41
Bank employees.
Upon the request of the Directorate of the Resolution Funding Corporation, established pursuant to section 21B(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b(b)), officers, employees, or agents of the Banks are authorized to act for and on behalf of the Resolution Funding Corporation in such manner as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Resolution Funding Corporation as provided in section 21B(c)(6)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b(c)(6)(B)).
Pt. 1272

# PART 1272—NEW BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Sec.
1272.1
Definitions.
1272.2
Limitation on Bank authority to undertake new business activities.
1272.3
New business activity notice requirement.
1272.4
Review process.
1272.5
Additional information.
1272.6
Examinations.
1272.7
Approval of notices.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1431(a), 1432(a), 4511(b), 4513, 4526(a).

# Source:
81 FR 91694, Dec. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1272.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Business Day
means any calendar day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday listed in 5 U.S.C. 6103.
NBA Notice Date
means the date on which FHFA receives a new business activity notice.
New business activity (NBA)
means any business activity undertaken, transacted, conducted, or engaged in by a Bank that entails material risks not previously managed by the Bank. A Bank's acceptance of a new type of advance collateral does not constitute an NBA.
§ 1272.2
Limitation on Bank authority to undertake new business activities.
No Bank shall undertake an NBA except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.
§ 1272.3
New business activity notice requirement.
Prior to undertaking an NBA, a Bank shall submit a written notice of the proposed NBA that provides a thorough, meaningful, complete, and specific description of the activity such that FHFA will be able to make an informed decision regarding the proposed activity. At a minimum, the notice should include the following information:
(a) A written opinion of counsel identifying the specific statutory, regulatory, or other legal authorities under which the NBA is authorized and, for submissions raising legal questions of first impression, a reasoned analysis explaining how the cited authorities can be construed to authorize the new activity;
(b) A full description of the proposed activity, including, when applicable, infographics and definitions of key terms. In addition, the Bank shall indicate whether the proposed activity represents a modification to a previously approved activity in which the Bank is engaged or is an activity that FHFA has approved for any other Banks, if known to the requesting Bank, and if applicable;
(c) A discussion of why the Bank proposes to engage in the new activity and how the activity supports the housing finance and community investment mission of the Bank;
(d) A discussion of the risks presented by the new activity and how the Bank will manage these risks; and
(e) A good faith estimate of the anticipated dollar volume of the activity, and the income and expenses associated with implementing and operating the new activity, over the initial three years of operation.
§ 1272.4
Review process.
(a) Within 30 business days of the NBA Notice Date, FHFA will take one of the following actions:
(1) Approve the proposed NBA;
(2) Deny the proposed activity; or
(3) Inform the Bank that the activity raises policy, legal, or supervisory issues that require further evaluation. If FHFA fails to take any of those actions by the 30th business day following the NBA Notice Date, the NBA notice shall be deemed to have been approved and the Bank may commence the activity for which the notice was submitted.
(b) In the case of any notice that FHFA has determined requires further evaluation, FHFA will approve or deny the notice by no later than the 80th business day following the NBA Notice Date. If FHFA fails to approve or deny a NBA notice by that date, and the Director has not extended the review period, the NBA notice shall be deemed to have been approved and the Bank may commence the activity for which the notice was submitted.
(c) For purposes of calculating the review period, no days will be counted between the date that FHFA has requested additional information from the Bank pursuant to § 1272.5 and the date that the Bank responds to all questions communicated.
(d) Notwithstanding anything contained in this part, the Director may extend the 80 business-day review period by an additional 60 business days if the Director determines that additional time is required to consider the notice. In such a case, FHFA will inform the Bank of any such extension before the 80th business day following the NBA Notice Date, and the Bank may not commence the NBA until FHFA has affirmatively approved the notice.
(e) In considering any NBA notice, FHFA will assess whether the proposed activity will be conducted in a safe and sound manner and is consistent with the housing finance, community investment, and liquidity missions of the Banks and the cooperative nature of the Bank System. FHFA may deny an NBA notice or may approve the notice, which approval may be made subject to the Bank's compliance with any conditions that FHFA determines are appropriate to ensure that the Bank conducts the new activity in a safe and sound manner and in compliance with applicable laws or regulations and the Bank's mission.
§ 1272.5
Additional information.
FHFA may request additional information from a Bank necessary to issue a determination regarding an NBA. After an initial request for information, FHFA may make subsequent requests for information only to the extent that the information provided by the Bank does not fully respond to a previous request, the subsequent request seeks information needed to clarify the Bank's previous response, or the information provided by the Bank raises new legal, policy, or supervisory issues not evident based on the Bank's NBA notice or responses to previous requests for information. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall limit the Director's authority to request additional information from a Bank regarding an NBA for which the Director has extended the review period.
§ 1272.6
Examinations.
Nothing in this part shall limit in any manner the right of FHFA to conduct any examination of any Bank relating to its implementation of an NBA, including pre- or post-implementation safety and soundness examinations, or review of contracts or other agreements between the Bank and any other party.
§ 1272.7
Approval of notices.
The Deputy Director for Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation may approve requests from a Bank seeking approval of any NBA notice submitted in accordance with this part. The Director reserves the right to modify, rescind, or supersede any such approval granted by the Deputy Director, with such action being effective only on a prospective basis.
Pt. 1273

# PART 1273—OFFICE OF FINANCE
Sec.
1273.1
Definitions.
1273.2
Authority of the OF.
1273.3
Functions of the OF.
1273.4
FHFA oversight.
1273.5
Funding of the OF.
1273.6
Debt management duties of the OF.
1273.7
Structure of the OF board of directors.
1273.8
General duties of the OF board of directors.
1273.9
Audit Committee.
Appendix A to Part 1273—Exceptions to the General Disclosure Standards

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1431, 1440, 4511(b), 4513, 4514(a), 4526(a).

# Source:
75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1273.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Audit Committee
means the OF Independent Directors acting as the committee established in accordance with § 1273.9 of this part.
Chair
means the chairperson of the board of directors of the Office of Finance.
Chief Executive Officer
or
CEO
means the chief executive officer of the Office of Finance.
Independent Director
means a member of the OF board of directors who meets the qualifications set forth in § 1273.7(a)(2) of this part.
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 13, 2013; 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1273.2
Authority of the OF.
(a)
General.
The OF shall enjoy such incidental powers under section 12(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1432(a)), as are necessary, convenient and proper to accomplish the efficient execution of its duties and functions pursuant to this part, including the authority to contract with a Bank or Banks for the use of Bank facilities or personnel in order to perform its functions or duties.
(b)
Agent.
The OF, in the performance of its duties, shall have the power to act on behalf of the Banks in issuing consolidated obligations and in paying principal and interest due on the consolidated obligations, or other obligations of the Banks.
(c)
Assessments.
The OF shall have authority to assess the Banks for the funding of its operations in accordance with § 1273.5 of this part.
§ 1273.3
Functions of the OF.
(a)
Joint debt issuance.
Subject to part 1270, subparts B and C, of this chapter, and this part, the OF, as agent for the Banks, shall offer, issue, and service (including making timely payments on principal and interest due) consolidated obligations.
(b)
Preparation of combined financial reports.
The OF shall prepare and issue the combined annual and quarterly financial reports for the Bank System in accordance with the requirements of § 1273.6(b) and appendix A of this part, using consistent accounting policies and procedures as provided in § 1273.9(b) of this part.
(c)
Fiscal agent.
The OF shall function as the fiscal agent of the Banks.
(d)
Financing Corporation and Resolution Funding Corporation.
The OF shall perform such duties and responsibilities for FICO as may be required under part 1271, subpart D, of this chapter, or for REFCORP as may be required under part 1271, subpart E, of this chapter or authorized by FHFA pursuant to section 21B(c)(6)(B) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b(c)(6)(B)).
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1273.4
FHFA oversight.
(a)
Oversight and enforcement actions.
FHFA shall have such oversight authority over the OF, the OF board of directors, the officers, employees, agents, attorneys, accountants, or other OF staff as set forth in the Bank Act, the Safety and Soundness Act, and FHFA regulations issued thereunder.
(b)
Examinations.
Pursuant to section 20 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1440), FHFA shall examine the OF, all funds and accounts that may be established pursuant to this part 1273, and the operations and activities of the OF, as provided for in the Bank Act, the Safety and Soundness Act, or any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
(c)
Combined financial reports.
FHFA shall determine whether a combined Bank System annual or quarterly financial report complies with the standards of this part.
§ 1273.5
Funding of the OF.
(a)
Generally.
The Banks are responsible for jointly funding all the expenses of the OF, including the costs of indemnifying the members of the OF board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer, and other officers and employees of the OF, as provided for in this part.
(b)
Funding policies.
(1) At the direction of and pursuant to policies and procedures adopted by the OF board of directors, the Banks shall periodically reimburse the OF in order to maintain sufficient operating funds under the budget approved by the OF board of directors. The OF operating funds shall be:
(i) Available for expenses of the OF and the OF board of directors, according to their approved budgets; and
(ii) Subject to withdrawal by check, wire transfer or draft signed by the Chief Executive Officer or other persons designated by the OF board of directors.
(2) Each Bank's respective
pro rata
share of the reimbursement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be based on a reasonable formula approved by the OF board of directors. Such formula shall be subject to the review of FHFA, and the OF board of directors shall make any changes to the formula as may be ordered by FHFA from time to time.
(c)
Alternative funding method.
With the prior approval of FHFA, the OF board of directors may, by contract with a Bank or Banks, choose to be reimbursed through a fee structure, in lieu of or in addition to assessment, for services provided to the Bank or Banks.
(d)
Prompt reimbursement.
Each Bank from time to time shall promptly forward funds to the OF in an amount representing its share of the reimbursement described in paragraph (b) of this section when directed to do so by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the procedures of the OF board of directors.
(e)
Indemnification expenses.
All expenses incident to indemnification of the members of the OF board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer, and other officers and employees of the OF shall be treated as an expense of the OF to be reimbursed by the Banks under the provisions of this part.
(f)
Operating funds segregated.
Any funds received by the OF from the Banks pursuant to this section for OF operating expenses promptly shall be deposited into one or more accounts and shall not be commingled with any proceeds from the sale of consolidated obligations in any manner.
§ 1273.6
Debt management duties of the OF.
(a)
Issuing and servicing of consolidated obligations.
The OF, as agent for the Banks, shall issue and service (including making timely payments on principal and interest due, subject to §§ 1270.9 and 1270.10 of this chapter) consolidated obligations pursuant to and in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the OF board of directors under this part.
(b)
Combined financial reports requirements.
The OF, under the oversight of the Audit Committee, shall prepare and distribute the combined annual and quarterly financial reports for the Bank System in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) The scope, form, and content of the disclosure generally shall be consistent with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulations S-K and S-X (17 CFR parts 229 and 210).
(2) Information about each Bank shall be presented as a segment of the Bank System as if generally accepted accounting principles regarding business segment disclosure applied to the combined annual and quarterly financial reports of the Bank System, and shall be presented using consistent accounting policies and procedures as provided in § 1273.9(b) of this part.
(3) The standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section are subject to the exceptions set forth in Appendix A to this part.
(4) The combined Bank System annual financial reports shall be filed with FHFA and distributed to each Bank and Bank member within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. The combined Bank System quarterly financial reports shall be filed with FHFA and distributed to each Bank and Bank member within 45 days after the end of the of the first three fiscal quarters of each year.
(5) The Audit Committee shall ensure that the combined Bank System annual or quarterly financial reports comply with the standards of this part.
(6) The OF and the OF board of directors, including the Audit Committee,
shall comply promptly with any directive of FHFA regarding the preparation, filing, amendment, or distribution of the combined Bank System annual or quarterly financial reports.
(7) Nothing in this section shall create or be deemed to create any rights in any third party.
(c)
Capital markets data.
The OF shall provide capital markets information concerning debt to the Banks.
(d)
NRSROs.
The OF shall manage the relationships with NRSROs in connection with their rating of consolidated obligations.
(e)
Research.
The OF shall conduct research reasonably related to the issuance or servicing of consolidated obligations.
(f)
Monitor Banks' credit exposure.
The OF shall timely monitor, and compile relevant data on, each Bank's and the Bank System's unsecured credit exposure to individual counterparties.
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1273.7
Structure of the OF board of directors.
(a)
Membership.
The OF board of directors shall consist of part-time members as follows:
(1) Each of the Bank presidents,
ex officio,
provided that if the presidency of any Bank becomes vacant, the person designated by the Bank's board of directors to temporarily fulfill the duties of president of that Bank shall serve on the OF board of directors until the presidency is filled permanently; and
(2) Five Independent Directors who—
(i) Each shall be a citizen of the United States;
(ii) As a group, shall have substantial experience in financial and accounting matters; and
(iii) Shall not have any material relationship with a Bank, or the OF (directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer of an organization), as determined under criteria set forth in a policy adopted by the OF board of directors. At a minimum, such policy shall provide that an Independent Director may not:
(A) Be an officer, director, or employee of any Bank or member of a Bank, or have been an officer, director, or employee of a Bank or member of a Bank during the previous three years;
(B) Be an officer or employee of the OF, or have been an officer or employee of the OF during the previous three years; or
(C) Be affiliated with any consolidated obligations selling or dealer group under contract with OF, or hold shares or any other financial interest in any entity that is part of a consolidated obligations seller or dealer group in an amount greater than the lesser of $250,000 or 0.01% of the market capitalization of the seller or dealer group, or in an amount that exceeds $1,000,000 for all entities that are part of any consolidated obligations seller dealer group, combined. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C), a holding company of an entity that is part of a consolidated obligations seller or dealer group shall be deemed to be part of the consolidated obligations selling or dealer group if the assets of the holding company's subsidiaries that are part of a consolidated obligation seller or dealer group constitute 35% or more of the consolidated assets of the holding company.
(b)
Terms.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each Independent Director shall serve for five-year terms (which shall be staggered so that no more than one Independent Director seat would be scheduled to become vacant in any one year), and shall be subject to removal or suspension in accordance with § 1273.4(a). An Independent Director may not serve more than two full, consecutive terms, provided that any partial term served by an Independent Director pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not count as a term for purposes of this restriction.
(2) The OF board of directors shall fill any vacancy among the Independent Directors occurring prior to the scheduled end of a term by majority vote, subject to FHFA's review of, and non-objection to, the new Independent Director. The OF board of directors shall provide FHFA with the same biographic and background information about the new Independent Director required under paragraph (c) of this section, and FHFA shall have the same rights of non-objection to the
Independent Director (and to appoint a different Independent Director) as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. A person shall be elected (or otherwise appointed by FHFA) under this paragraph (b)(2) to serve only for the remainder of the term associated with the vacant directorship.
(c)
Election of Independent Directors.
The Independent Directors shall be elected by majority vote of the OF board of directors, subject to FHFA's review of, and non-objection to, each Independent Director. The OF board of directors shall provide FHFA with relevant biographic and background information, including information demonstrating that the new Independent Director meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, at least 20 business days before the person assumes any duties as a member of the OF board of directors. If the OF board of directors, in FHFA's judgment, fails to elect a suitably qualified person, FHFA may appoint some other person who meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. FHFA will provide notice of its objection to a particular Independent Director prior to the date that such Director is to assume duties as a member of the OF board of directors. Such notice shall indicate whether, given FHFA's objection, FHFA intends to fill the seat through appointment or a new election should be held by the OF board of directors.
(d)
Election of Chair and Vice-Chair.
(1) The Chair shall be elected by majority vote of the OF board of directors from among the Independent Directors then serving on the OF board of directors, and the Vice Chair shall be elected by majority vote of the OF board of directors from among all directors.
(2) The OF board of directors shall promptly inform FHFA of the election of a Chair or Vice Chair. If FHFA objects to any Chair or Vice Chair elected by the OF board of directors, FHFA shall provide written notice of its objection within 20 business days of the date that FHFA first receives the notice of the election of the Chair and or Vice Chair, and the OF board of directors must then promptly elect a new Chair or Vice Chair, as appropriate.
(e)
By-laws and Committees.
(1) The OF board of directors shall adopt by-laws governing the manner in which the board conducts its affairs, which shall be consistent with the requirements of this part and other applicable laws and regulations as administered by FHFA. The by-laws of the board of directors shall be subject to review and approval by FHFA.
(2) In addition to the Audit Committee required under § 1273.9, the OF board of directors may establish other committees, including an Executive Committee. The duties and powers of such committee, including any powers delegated by the OF board of directors, shall be specified in the by-laws of the board of directors or the charter of the committee.
(f)
Compensation.
(1) The Bank presidents shall not receive any additional compensation or reimbursement as a result of their service as a director of the OF board.
(2) The OF shall pay reasonable compensation and expenses to the Independent Directors in accordance with the requirements for payment of compensation and expenses to Bank directors as set forth in part 1261 of this chapter.
(g)
Corporate Governance and Indemnification
—(1)
General.
The corporate governance practices and procedures of the OF, and practices and procedures related to indemnification (including advancement of expenses) shall comply with applicable Federal law, rules, and regulations.
(2)
Election and designation of body of law.
(i) To the extent not inconsistent with paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the OF shall elect to follow the corporate governance and indemnification practices and procedures set forth in one of the following:
(A) The law of the jurisdiction in which the principal office of the OF is located;
(B) The Delaware General Corporation Law (Del. Code Ann. Title 8); or
(C) The Revised Model Business Corporation Act.
(ii) The OF board of directors shall designate in its by-laws the body of law elected pursuant to this paragraph (g)(2).
(3)
Indemnification.
Subject to paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, to the extent applicable, the OF shall indemnify (and advance the expenses of) its directors, officers, and employees under such terms and conditions as are determined by the OF board of directors. The OF shall be authorized to maintain insurance for its directors, the CEO, and any other officer or employee of the OF. Nothing in this paragraph (g)(3) shall affect any rights to indemnification (including the advancement of expenses) that a director, the CEO, or any other officer or employee of the OF had with respect to any actions, omissions, transactions, or facts occurring prior to December 2, 2016.
(h)
Delegation.
In addition to any delegation to a committee allowed under paragraph (e) of this section, the OF board of directors may delegate any of its authority or duties to any employee of the OF in order to enable OF to carry out its functions.
(i)
Outside staff and consultants.
In carrying out its duties and responsibilities, the OF board of directors, or any committee thereof, shall have authority to retain staff and outside counsel, independent accountants, or other outside consultants at the expense of the OF.
[81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1273.8
General duties of the OF board of directors.
(a)
General.
Each director shall have the duty to:
(1) Carry out his or her duties as director in good faith, in a manner such director believes to be in the best interests of the OF and the Bank System, and with such care, including reasonable inquiry, as an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances;
(2) Administer the affairs of the OF fairly and impartially and without discrimination in favor of or against any Bank;
(3) At the time of appointment or election, or within a reasonable time thereafter, have a working familiarity with basic finance and accounting practices, including the ability to read and understand the Banks' combined balance sheets and income statements and the relevant financial statements of the OF and to ask substantive questions of management and the internal and external auditors with regard to both the combined financial statements of the Bank System and the operations and financial statements of the OF, as appropriate; and
(4) Direct the operations of the OF in conformity with the requirements set forth in the Bank Act, Safety and Soundness Act, and this chapter.
(b)
Meetings and quorum.
The OF board of directors shall conduct its business by majority vote of its members at meetings convened in accordance with its by-laws, and shall hold no fewer than six in-person meetings annually. Due notice shall be given to FHFA by the Chair prior to each meeting. A quorum, for purposes of meetings of the OF board of directors, shall require a majority of sitting board members, which must include a majority of sitting Independent Directors.
(c)
Duties regarding COs.
The OF board of directors shall oversee the establishment of policies regarding COs that shall:
(1) Govern the frequency and timing of issuance, issue size, minimum denomination, CO concessions, underwriter qualifications, currency of issuance, interest-rate change or conversion features, call features, principal indexing features, selection and retention of outside counsel, selection of clearing organizations, and the selection and compensation of underwriters for consolidated obligations, which shall be in accordance with the requirements and limitations set forth in paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(2) Prohibit the issuance of COs intended to be privately placed with or sold without the participation of an underwriter to retail investors, or issued with a concession structure designed to facilitate the placement of the COs in retail accounts, unless the OF has given notice to the board of directors of each Bank describing a policy permitting such issuances, soliciting comments from each Bank's board of directors, and considering the comments received before adopting a policy permitting such issuance activities;
(3) Require all broker-dealers or underwriters under contract to the OF to have and maintain adequate suitability sales practices and policies, which shall be acceptable to, and subject to review by, the OF;
(4) Require that COs shall be issued efficiently and at the lowest all-in funding costs over time, consistent with—
(i) Prudent risk-management practices, prudential debt parameters, short and long-term market conditions, and the Banks' role as GSEs;
(ii) Maintaining reliable access to the short-term and long-term capital markets; and
(iii) Positioning the issuance of debt to take advantage of current and future capital market opportunities.
(d)
Other duties.
The OF board of directors shall:
(1) Set policies for management and operation of the OF;
(2) Approve a strategic business plan for the OF in accordance with the provisions of § 1239.14 of this chapter, as appropriate;
(3) Select, employ, determine the compensation for, and assign the duties and functions of a Chief Executive Officer of the OF who shall—
(i) Be head of the OF and direct the implementation of the OF board of directors' policies;
(ii) Serve as a member of the Directorate of the FICO, pursuant to section 21(b)(1)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(b)(1)(A)); and
(iii) Serve as a member of the Directorate of the REFCORP, pursuant to section 21B(c)(1)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b(c)(1)(A)).
(4) Review and approve all contracts of the OF, except for contracts for which exclusive authority is provided to the Audit Committee by paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of § 1273.9; and
(5) Assume any other responsibilities that may from time to time be assigned to it by FHFA.
(e)
No rights created.
Nothing in this part shall create or be deemed to create any rights in any third party.
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76299, Nov. 2, 2016; 83 FR 52954, Oct. 19, 2018]
§ 1273.9
Audit Committee.
(a)
Composition.
The Independent Directors shall serve as the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall elect its chairperson from among its members. The Chairperson of the OF may also serve as chairperson of the Audit Committee, if the Audit Committee members so decide.
(b)
Responsibilities.
(1) The Audit Committee shall be responsible for overseeing the audit function of the OF and the preparation and the accurate and meaningful combination of information submitted by the Banks in the Bank System's combined financial reports.
(2) For purposes of the combined financial reports, the Audit Committee shall ensure that the Banks adopt consistent accounting policies and procedures to the extent necessary for information submitted by the Banks to the OF to be combined to create accurate and meaningful combined financial reports.
(3) The Audit Committee, in consultation with FHFA, may establish common accounting policies and procedures for the information submitted by the Banks to the OF for the combined financial reports where the Committee determines such information provided by the several Banks is inconsistent and that consistent policies and procedures regarding that information are necessary to create accurate and meaningful combined financial reports.
(4) To the extent possible the Audit Committee shall operate consistent with the requirements pertaining to audit committee reports set forth in Item 407(d)(3) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(5) The Audit Committee shall oversee internal audit activities, including the selection, evaluation, compensation, and, where appropriate, replacement of the internal auditor. The internal auditor shall report directly to the Audit Committee on substantive matters, and is ultimately accountable to the Audit Committee and the board of directors.
(6) The Audit Committee shall have the exclusive authority to employ and contract for the services of an independent, external auditor for the
Banks' annual and quarterly combined financial statements and of an independent, external auditor for OF.
(7) The Audit Committee shall direct senior management to maintain the reliability and integrity of the accounting policies and financial reporting of the OF.
(8) The Audit Committee shall review the basis for the OF's financial statements and the external auditor's opinion rendered with respect to such financial statements.
(9) The Audit Committee shall ensure that senior management has established and is maintaining an adequate internal control system within the OF by:
(i) Reviewing the OF's internal control system and the resolution of identified material weaknesses and reportable conditions in the internal control system, including the prevention or detection of management override or compromise of the internal control system; and
(ii) Reviewing the programs and policies of the OF designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies and monitoring the results of these compliance efforts.
(10) The Audit Committee shall review the policies and procedures established by senior management to assess and monitor implementation of the OF strategic business plan and the operating goals and objectives contained therein.
(11) The Audit Committee shall provide an independent, direct channel of communication between the OF's board of directors and the internal and external auditors.
(12) The Audit Committee shall conduct or authorize investigations into any matters within the Audit Committee's scope of responsibilities.
(13) The Audit Committee shall report periodically its findings to the OF's board of directors.
(14) The Audit Committee shall prepare written minutes of each Audit Committee meeting.
(c)
Charter.
(1) The Audit Committee shall adopt, and the OF board of directors shall approve, a formal written charter, consistent with the duties and authority set forth in this section, that specifies the scope of the Audit Committee's powers and responsibilities. The Audit Committee and the OF board of directors shall:
(i) Review, and assess the adequacy of and, where appropriate, amend the Audit Committee charter on an annual basis; and
(ii) Re-adopt and re-approve, respectively, the Audit Committee charter not less often than every three years.
(2) The charter of the Audit Committee shall be subject to review and approval by FHFA.
(d)
No delegation.
The Audit Committee may not delegate the responsibilities assigned to it under this section to any person, or to any other committee or sub-committee of the OF board of directors.
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76299, Nov. 2, 2016]
Pt. 1273, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1273—Exceptions to the General Disclosure Standards
A. Related-party transactions.
Item 404 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.404, requires the disclosure of certain relationships and related party transactions. In light of the cooperative nature of the Bank System, related-party transactions are to be expected, and a disclosure of all related-party transactions that meet the threshold would not be meaningful. Instead, the combined annual report will disclose the percent of advances to members an officer of which serves as a Bank director, and list the top ten holders of advances in the Bank System and the top five holders of advances by Bank, with a further disclosure indicating which of these members had an officer that served as a Bank director. The combined financial report will also disclose the top ten holders of advances in the Bank System by holding company, where the advances of all affiliates within a holding company are aggregated.
B. Biographical information.
The biographical information required by Items 401 and 405 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.401 and 405, will be provided only for members of the OF board of directors, including the Bank presidents, the Chair and Vice-Chair of the board of directors of each Bank, and the Chief Executive Officer of OF.
C. Compensation.
The information on compensation required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.402, will be provided only for Bank presidents and the CEO of the OF.
D. Submission of matters to a vote of stockholders.
No information will be presented on matters submitted to shareholders for a vote, as otherwise required by Item 4 of the SEC's form 10-K, 17 CFR 249.310.
E. Exhibits.
The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.601, are not applicable and will not be provided.
F. Per share information.
The statement of financial information required by Items 301 and 302 of Rule S-K, 17 CFR 229.301 and 302, is inapplicable because the shares of the Banks are subscription capital that trades at par, and the shares expand or contract with changes in member assets or advance levels.
G. Beneficial ownership.
Item 403 of Rule S-K, 17 CFR 229.403, requires the disclosure of security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management. The combined financial report will provide a listing of the ten largest holders of capital stock in the Bank System and a listing of the five largest holders of capital stock by Bank. This listing will also indicate which members had an officer that served as a director of a Bank. The combined financial report will also disclose the top ten holders of Bank stock in the Bank System by holding company, where the Bank stock of all affiliates within a holding company is aggregated.
[75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76299, Nov. 2, 2016]
Pt. 1274

# PART 1274—FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE BANKS
Sec.
1274.1
Definitions.
1274.2
Audit requirements.
1274.3
Requirements to provide financial and other information to FHFA and the OF.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426, 1431, 4511(b), 4513, 4526(a).

# Source:
75 FR 23166, May 3, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1274.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Audit
means an examination of the financial statements by an independent accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards for the purpose of expressing an opinion thereon.
Audit report
means a document in which an independent accountant indicates the scope the audit made and sets forth an opinion regarding the financial statement taken as a whole, or an assertion to the effect that an overall opinion cannot be expressed. When an overall opinion cannot be expressed, the reasons therefor shall be stated.
[75 FR 23166, May 3, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1274.2
Audit requirements.
(a) Each Bank, the OF, and the FICO shall obtain annually an independent external audit of and an audit report on its individual financial statement.
(b) The OF audit committee shall obtain an audit and an audit report on the combined annual financial statements for the Bank System.
(c) All audits must be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and in accordance with the most current government auditing standards issued by the Office of the Comptroller General of the United States.
(d) An independent, external auditor must meet at least twice each year with the audit committee of each Bank, the audit committee of OF, and the FICO Directorate.
(e) FHFA examiners shall have unrestricted access to all auditors' work papers and to the auditors to address substantive accounting issues that may arise during the course of any audit.
§ 1274.3
Requirements to provide financial and other information to FHFA and the OF.
In order to facilitate the preparation by the OF of combined Bank System annual and quarterly reports, each Bank shall provide to the OF in such form and within such timeframes as FHFA or the OF shall specify, all financial and other information and assistance that the OF shall request for that purpose. Nothing in this section shall contravene or be deemed to circumscribe in any manner the authority of FHFA to obtain any information from any Bank related to the preparation or review of any financial report.
Pt. 1277

# PART 1277—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL PLANS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1277.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Bank Capital Requirements
1277.2
Total capital requirement.
1277.3
Risk-based capital requirement.
1277.4
Credit risk capital requirement.
1277.5
Market risk capital requirement.
1277.6
Operational risk capital requirement.
1277.7
Limits on unsecured extensions of credit; reporting requirements.
1277.8
Reporting requirements.

# Subpart C—Bank Capital Stock
1277.20
Classes of capital stock.
1277.21
Issuance of capital stock.
1277.22
Minimum investment in capital stock.
1277.23
Dividends.
1277.24
Liquidation, merger, or consolidation.
1277.25
Transfer of capital stock.
1277.26
Redemption and repurchase of capital stock.
1277.27
Other restrictions on the repurchase or redemption of Bank stock.

# Subpart D—Bank Capital Plans
1277.28
Bank capital plans.
1277.29
Amendments to a Bank's capital plan.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1426, 1436(a), 1440, 1443, 1446, 4511, 4513, 4514, 4526, 4612.

# Source:
80 FR 12755, Mar. 11, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1277.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Affiliated counterparty
means a counterparty of a Bank that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another counterparty of the Bank. For the purposes of this definition only, direct or indirect ownership (including beneficial ownership) of more than 50 percent of the voting securities or voting interests of an entity constitutes control.
Bankruptcy remote
means, in the context of any asset that a Bank has posted as collateral to a counterparty, that the asset would be excluded from that counterparty's estate in receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
Class A stock
means capital stock issued by a Bank, including subclasses, that has the characteristics specified by § 1277.20(a).
Class B stock
means capital stock issued by a Bank, including subclasses, that has the characteristics specified by § 1277.20(b).
Collateralized mortgage obligation,
or
CMO,
means any instrument backed or collateralized by residential mortgages or residential mortgage securities, that includes two or more tranches or classes, or is otherwise structured in any manner other than as a pass-through security.
Commitment to make an advance or acquire a loan subject to certain drawdown
means a legally binding agreement that commits the Bank to make an advance or acquire a loan, at or by a specified future date.
Credit derivative
means a derivative contract that transfers credit risk.
Credit risk
means the risk that the market value, or estimated fair value if market value is not available, of an obligation will decline as a result of deterioration in the creditworthiness of the obligor.
Derivatives clearing organization
means an organization that clears derivative contracts and is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1), or that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 5b(h) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1(h)), or is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1), or that the SEC has exempted from registration as a clearing agency under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1(k)).
Derivative contract
means generally a financial contract the value of which is derived from the values of one or more underlying assets, reference rates, or
indices of asset values, or credit-related events. Derivative contracts include interest rate, foreign exchange rate, equity, precious metals, commodity, and credit derivative contracts, and any other instruments that pose similar counterparty credit risks.
Eligible master netting agreement
has the same meaning as set forth in § 1221.2 of this chapter.
Exchange rate contracts
include cross-currency interest-rate swaps, forward foreign exchange rate contracts, currency options purchased, and any similar instruments that give rise to similar risks.
Former member
means an institution for which the membership in a Bank has been terminated but which continues to hold stock in the Bank as required by the Bank's capital plan, and includes any successor to such institution that continues to hold the stock in the Bank that had been issued to the acquired institution.
General allowance for losses
means an allowance established by the Bank in accordance with GAAP for losses, but which does not include any amounts held against specific assets of the Bank.
Government Sponsored Enterprise,
or
GSE,
means a United States Government-sponsored agency or instrumentality established or chartered to serve public purposes specified by the United States Congress, but whose obligations are not obligations of the United States and are not guaranteed by the United States.
Internal cash-flow model
means a model developed and used by a Bank to estimate the potential evolving changes in the cash flows and market values of a portfolio for each month, extending out for a period of years, subject to a variety of plausible time paths of changes in interest rates, volatilities, and option adjusted spreads, and that incorporates assumptions about new or revolving business, including the roll-off and possible replacement of assets and liabilities as required.
Internal market-risk model
means a model developed and used by a Bank to estimate the potential change in the market value of a portfolio subject to an instantaneous change in interest rates, volatilities, and option-adjusted spreads.
Market risk
means the risk that the market value, or estimated fair value if market value is not available, of a Bank's portfolio will decline as a result of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or equity or commodity prices.
Market value-at-risk
is the loss in the market value of a Bank's portfolio measured from a base line case, where the loss is estimated in accordance with § 1277.5.
Minimum investment
means the minimum amount of stock that an institution is required to own in order to be a member of a Bank and in order to obtain advances and to engage in other business activities with the Bank in accordance with § 1277.22.
Non-mortgage asset
means an asset held by a Bank other than an advance, a non-rated asset, a residential mortgage asset, a collateralized mortgage obligation, or a derivative contract.
Non-rated asset
means a Bank's cash, premises, plant and equipment, and investments authorized pursuant to § 1265.3(e) and (f) of this chapter.
Operational risk
means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Permanent capital
means the retained earnings of a Bank, determined in accordance with GAAP, plus the amount paid-in for the Bank's Class B stock.
Redeem or Redemption
means the acquisition by a Bank of its outstanding Class A or Class B stock at par value following the expiration of the six-month or five-year statutory redemption period, respectively, for the stock.
Regulatory capital requirements
means the minimum amounts of permanent and total capital that a Bank is required to maintain under section 6(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426(a)) and any related regulations, as such requirements may be modified by the Director, or any similar requirement established for a Bank by regulation, order, written agreement or other action.
Repurchase
means the acquisition by a Bank of excess stock prior to the expiration of the six-month or five-year
statutory redemption period for the stock.
Residential mortgage
means a loan secured by a residential structure that contains one-to-four dwelling units, regardless of whether the structure is attached to real property. The term encompasses, among other things, loans secured by individual condominium or cooperative units and manufactured housing, whether or not the manufactured housing is considered real property under state law, and participation interests in such loans.
Residential mortgage asset,
or
RMA,
means any residential mortgage, residential mortgage pool, or residential mortgage security.
Residential mortgage security
means any instrument representing an undivided interest in a pool of residential mortgages.
Sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract
means an overnight federal funds loan that is automatically renewed each day unless terminated by either the lender or the borrower.
Total assets
mean the total assets of a Bank, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Total capital
of a Bank means the sum of permanent capital, the amounts paid-in for Class A stock, the amount of any general allowance for losses, and the amount of other instruments identified in a Bank's capital plan that the Director has determined to be available to absorb losses incurred by such Bank.
[80 FR 12755, Mar. 11, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 5325, Feb. 20, 2019]

# Subpart B—Bank Capital Requirements

# Source:
84 FR 5326, Feb. 20, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1277.2
Total capital requirement.
Each Bank shall maintain at all times:
(a) Total capital in an amount at least equal to 4.0 percent of the Bank's total assets; and
(b) A leverage ratio of total capital to total assets of at least 5.0 percent of the Bank's total assets. For purposes of determining this leverage ratio, total capital shall be computed by multiplying the Bank's permanent capital by 1.5 and adding to this product all other components of total capital.
§ 1277.3
Risk-based capital requirement.
Each Bank shall maintain at all times permanent capital in an amount at least equal to the sum of its credit risk capital requirement, its market risk capital requirement, and its operational risk capital requirement, calculated in accordance with §§ 1277.4, 1277.5, and 1277.6, respectively.
§ 1277.4
Credit risk capital requirement.
(a)
General requirement.
Each Bank's credit risk capital requirement shall equal the sum of the Bank's individual credit risk capital charges for all advances, residential mortgage assets, CMOs, non-mortgage assets, non-rated assets, off-balance sheet items, and derivative contracts, as calculated in accordance with this section.
(b)
Credit risk capital charge for residential mortgage assets and collateralized mortgage obligations.
The credit risk capital charge for residential mortgages, residential mortgage pools, residential mortgage securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations shall be determined as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Credit risk capital charge for advances, non-mortgage assets, and non-rated assets.
Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, each Bank's credit risk capital charge for advances, non-mortgage assets, and non-rated assets shall be equal to the amortized cost of the asset multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned to that asset pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section. For any such asset carried at fair value where any change in fair value is recognized in the Bank's income, the Bank shall calculate the capital charge based on the fair value of the asset rather than its amortized cost.
(d)
Credit risk capital charge for off-balance sheet items.
Each Bank's credit risk capital charge for an off-balance sheet item shall be equal to the credit
equivalent amount of such item, as determined pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned to that item pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section and Table 2 to this section, except that the credit risk percentage requirement applied to the credit equivalent amount for a standby letter of credit shall be that for an advance with the same remaining maturity as that of the standby letter of credit, as specified in Table 1 to this section.
(e)
Derivative contracts.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4) (transactions with members) and (5) (cleared transactions and foreign exchange rate contracts) of this section, the credit risk capital charge for a derivative contract entered into by a Bank shall equal, after any adjustment allowed under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the sum of:
(i) The current credit exposure for the derivative contract, calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section, multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned to that derivative contract pursuant to Table 2 to this section, provided that a Bank shall use the credit risk percentages from the column for instruments with maturities of one year or less for all such derivative contracts; plus
(ii) The potential future credit exposure for the derivative contract, calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section, multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned to that derivative contract pursuant to Table 2 to this section, where a Bank uses the actual remaining maturity of the derivative contract for the purpose of applying Table 2 to this section; plus
(iii) A credit risk capital charge applicable to the undiscounted amount of collateral posted by the Bank with respect to a derivative contract that exceeds the Bank's current payment obligation under that derivative contract, where the charge equals the amount of such excess collateral multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned under Table 2 to this section for the custodian or other party that holds the collateral, and where a Bank deems the exposure to have a remaining maturity of one year or less when applying Table 2 to this section.
(2)(i) A Bank may reduce the credit risk capital charge calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section by the amount of the discounted value of any collateral that is held by or on behalf of the Bank against an exposure from the derivative contract, and that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If the total amount of the discounted value of the collateral is less than the credit risk capital charge calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section for a particular derivative contract, then the credit risk capital charge for the derivative contract shall equal the amount of the initial charge that remains after having been reduced by the collateral. A Bank that uses a counterparty's pledged collateral to reduce the capital charge against a derivative contract under this provision, shall also apply a capital charge to the amount of the pledged collateral that it has used to reduce its credit exposure on the derivative contract. The amount of that capital charge shall be equal to the capital charge that would be required under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, whichever applies to the type of collateral, as if the Bank were to own the collateral directly. In reducing the capital charge on a particular derivative contract, the Bank shall apply the discounted value of the collateral for that derivative contract in the following manner:
(A) First, to reduce the current credit exposure of the derivative contract subject to the capital charge; and
(B) Second, and only if the total discounted value of the collateral held exceeds the current credit exposure of the contract, any remaining amounts may be applied to reduce the amount of the potential future credit exposure of the derivative contract subject to the capital charge.
(ii) If a counterparty's payment obligations to a Bank under a derivative contract are unconditionally guaranteed by a third-party, then the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to the derivative contract may be that associated with the guarantor, rather than the Bank's counterparty.
(3) The credit risk capital charge may be reduced as described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section for collateral held against the derivative contract exposure only if the collateral is:
(i) Held by, or has been paid to, the Bank or held by an independent, third-party custodian on behalf of the Bank pursuant to a custody agreement that meets the requirements of § 1221.7(c) and (d) of this chapter;
(ii) Legally available to absorb losses;
(iii) Of a readily determinable value at which it can be liquidated by the Bank; and
(iv) Subject to an appropriate discount to protect against price decline during the holding period and the costs likely to be incurred in the liquidation of the collateral, provided that such discount shall equal at least the minimum discount required under appendix B to part 1221 of this chapter for collateral listed in that appendix, or shall be estimated by the Bank based on appropriate assumptions about the price risks and liquidation costs for collateral not listed in appendix B to part 1221.
(4) The credit risk capital charge for any derivative contracts entered into between a Bank and its members shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, except that the Bank shall use the credit risk percentage requirements from Table 1 to this section, which sets forth the credit risk percentage requirements for advances.
(5) Notwithstanding any other provision in this paragraph (e), the credit risk capital charge for:
(i) A foreign exchange rate contract (excluding gold contracts) with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less shall be zero; and
(ii) A derivative contract cleared by a derivatives clearing organization shall equal 0.16 percent times the sum of the following:
(A) The current credit exposure for the derivative contract, calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section;
(B) The potential future credit exposure for the derivative contract calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section; and
(C) The amount of collateral posted by the Bank and held by the derivatives clearing organization, clearing member, or custodian in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote, but only to the extent the amount exceeds the Bank's current credit exposure to the derivatives clearing organization.
(f)
Determination of credit risk percentage requirements
—(1)
General.
(i) Each Bank shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each advance and each non-rated asset by identifying the appropriate category from Table 1 or 3 to this section, respectively, to which the advance or non-rated asset belongs. Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, each Bank shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each non-mortgage asset, off-balance sheet item, and derivative contract by identifying the appropriate category set forth in Table 2 to this section to which the asset, item, or contract belongs as determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, and remaining maturity. Each Bank shall use the applicable credit risk percentage requirement to calculate the credit risk capital charge for each asset, item, or contract in accordance with paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section, respectively. The relevant categories and credit risk percentage requirements are provided in the following Tables 1 through 3 to this section—
Table 1 to § 1277.4—Requirement for Advances
Maturity of advances
Percentage
applicable
to advances
Advances with:
Remaining maturity
=4 years
0.09
Remaining maturity
4 years to 7 years
0.23
Remaining maturity
7 years to 10 years
0.35
Remaining maturity
10 years
0.51
Table 2 to § 1277.4—Requirement for Internally Rated Non-Mortgage Assets, Off-Balance Sheet Items, and Derivative Contracts
[Based on remaining contractual maturity]
FHFA Credit Rating
Applicable percentage
=1 year
1 yr to 3 yrs
3 yrs to 7 yrs
7 yrs to
10 yrs
10 yrs
U.S. Government Securities
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
FHFA 1
0.20
0.59
1.37
2.28
3.32
FHFA 2
0.36
0.87
1.88
3.07
4.42
FHFA 3
0.64
1.31
2.65
4.22
6.01
FHFA 4
3.24
4.79
7.89
11.51
15.64
FHFA 5
9.24
11.46
15.90
21.08
27.00
FHFA 6
15.99
18.06
22.18
26.99
32.49
FHFA 7
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
Table 3 to § 1277.4—Requirement for Non-Rated Assets
Type of unrated asset
Applicable
percentage
Cash
0.00
Premises, Plant and Equipment
8.00
Investments Under 12 CFR 1265.3(e)
(f)
8.00
(ii) Each Bank shall develop a methodology to be used to assign an internal credit risk rating to each counterparty, asset, item, and contract that is subject to Table 2 to this section. The methodology shall involve an evaluation of counterparty or asset risk factors, and may incorporate, but must not rely solely on, credit ratings prepared by credit rating agencies. Each Bank shall align its various internal credit ratings to the appropriate categories of FHFA Credit Ratings included in Table 2 to this section. In doing so, FHFA Categories 7 through 1 shall include assets of progressively higher credit quality. After aligning its internal credit ratings to the appropriate categories of Table 2 to this section, each Bank shall assign each counterparty, asset, item, and contract to the appropriate FHFA Credit Rating category based on the applicable internal credit rating.
(2)
Exception for assets subject to a guarantee or secured by collateral.
(i) When determining the applicable credit risk percentage requirement from Table 1 to this section for a non-mortgage asset that is subject to an unconditional guarantee by a third-party guarantor or is secured as set forth in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, the Bank may substitute the credit risk percentage requirement associated with the guarantor or the collateral, as appropriate, for the credit risk percentage requirement associated with that portion of the asset subject to the guarantee or covered by the collateral.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, a non-mortgage asset shall be considered to be secured if the collateral is:
(A) Actually held by the Bank, or an independent third-party custodian on the Bank's behalf, or, if posted by a Bank member and permitted under the Bank's collateral agreement with that member, by the Bank's member or an affiliate of that member where the term “affiliate” has the same meaning as in § 1266.1 of this chapter;
(B) Legally available to absorb losses;
(C) Of a readily determinable value at which it can be liquidated by the Bank;
(D) Held in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's member products policy established pursuant to § 1239.30 of this chapter, if the collateral has been posted by a member or an affiliate of a member; and
(E) Subject to an appropriate discount to protect against price decline during the holding period and the costs likely to be incurred in the liquidation of the collateral.
(3)
Exception for obligations of the Enterprises.
A Bank may use a credit risk capital charge of zero for any debt instrument or obligation issued by an Enterprise, other than a residential mortgage security or a collateralized mortgage obligation, provided that, and only for so long as, the Enterprise receives capital support or other form of direct financial assistance from the United States government that enables
the Enterprise to repay those obligations.
(4)
Methodology and model review.
A Bank shall provide to FHFA upon request the methodology, model, and any analyses used by the Bank to assign any non-mortgage asset, off-balance sheet item, or derivative contract to an FHFA Credit Rating category. FHFA may direct a Bank to promptly revise its methodology or model to address any deficiencies identified by FHFA.
(g)
Credit risk capital charges for residential mortgage assets
—(1)
Bank determination of credit risk percentage.
(i) Each Bank's credit risk capital charge for a residential mortgage, residential mortgage pool, residential mortgage security, or collateralized mortgage obligation shall be equal to the asset's amortized cost multiplied by the credit risk percentage requirement assigned to that asset pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(2) of this section. For any such asset carried at fair value where any change in fair value is recognized in the Bank's income, the Bank shall calculate the capital charge based on the fair value of the asset rather than its amortized cost.
(ii) Each Bank shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each residential mortgage, residential mortgage pool, and residential mortgage security by identifying the appropriate FHFA RMA category set forth in the following Table 4 to this section to which the asset belongs, and shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each collateralized mortgage obligation by identifying the appropriate FHFA CMO category set forth in Table 4 to this section to which the asset belongs, with the appropriate categories being determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section.
(iii) Each Bank shall develop a methodology to estimate the potential future stress losses on its residential mortgages, residential mortgage pools, residential mortgage securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations, as may yet occur from the current amortized cost (or fair value) of those assets, and that converts those loss estimates into a stress loss percentage for each asset, expressed as a percentage of its amortized cost (or fair value). A Bank shall use the stress loss percentage for each asset to determine the appropriate FHFA RMA or CMO ratings category for that asset, as set forth in Table 4 to this section. A Bank shall do so by assigning each such asset to the category whose credit risk percentage requirement equals the asset's stress loss percentage, or to the category with the next highest credit risk percentage requirement. For residential mortgages and residential mortgage pools, the methodology shall involve an evaluation of the residential mortgages and residential mortgage pools and any credit enhancements or guarantees, including an assessment of the creditworthiness of the providers of such enhancements or guarantees. In the case of a residential mortgage security or collateralized mortgage obligation, the methodology shall involve an evaluation of the underlying mortgage collateral, the structure of the security, and any credit enhancements or guarantees, including an assessment of the creditworthiness of the providers of such enhancements or guarantees.
Table 4 to § 1277.4—Requirement for Residential Mortgage Assets and CMOs
Credit risk
percentage
Categories for residential mortgage assets:
FHFA RMA 1
0.37
FHFA RMA 2
0.60
FHFA RMA 3
0.86
FHFA RMA 4
1.20
FHFA RMA 5
2.40
FHFA RMA 6
4.80
FHFA RMA 7
34.00
Categories for Collateralized Mortgage Obligations:
FHFA CMO 1
0.37
FHFA CMO 2
0.60
FHFA CMO 3
1.60
FHFA CMO 4
4.45
FHFA CMO 5
13.00
FHFA CMO 6
34.00
FHFA CMO 7
100.00
(2)
Exceptions.
(i) A Bank may use a credit risk capital charge of zero for any residential mortgage asset or collateralized mortgage obligation, or portion thereof, guaranteed by an Enterprise as to payment of principal and interest, provided that, and only for so long as, the Enterprise receives capital support or other form of direct financial assistance from the United States
government that enables the Enterprise to repay those obligations;
(ii) A Bank may use a credit risk capital charge of zero for any residential mortgage asset or collateralized mortgage obligation, or any portion thereof, guaranteed or insured as to payment of principal and interest by a department or agency of the United States government that is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States; and
(iii) A Bank shall provide to FHFA upon request the methodology, model, and any analyses used to estimate the potential future stress losses on its residential mortgages, residential mortgage pools, residential mortgage securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations, and to determine a stress loss percentage for each such asset. FHFA may direct a Bank to promptly revise its methodology or model to address any deficiencies identified by FHFA.
(h)
Calculation of credit equivalent amount for off-balance sheet items
—(1)
General requirement.
The credit equivalent amount for an off-balance sheet item shall be determined by an FHFA-approved model or shall be equal to the face amount of the instrument multiplied by the credit conversion factor assigned to such risk category of instruments by the following Table 5 to this section, subject to the exceptions in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
Table 5 to § 1277.4—Credit Conversion Factors for Off-Balance Sheet Items
Instrument
Credit
conversion
factor
(in percent)
Asset sales with recourse where the credit risk remains with the Bank
100
Commitments to make advances subject to certain drawdown.
Commitments to acquire loans subject to certain drawdown.
Standby letters of credit
50
Other commitments with original maturity of over one year.
Other commitments with original maturity of one year or less
20
(2)
Exceptions.
The credit conversion factor shall be zero for “Other Commitments With Original Maturity of Over One Year” and “Other Commitments With Original Maturity of One Year or Less” for which Table 5 to this section would otherwise apply credit conversion factors of 50 percent or 20 percent, respectively, if the commitments are unconditionally cancelable, or effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to the deterioration in a borrower's creditworthiness, at any time by the Bank without prior notice.
(i)
Calculation of credit exposures for derivative contracts
—(1)
Current credit exposure
—(i)
Single derivative contract.
The current credit exposure for derivative contracts that are not subject to an eligible master netting agreement shall be:
(A) If the mark-to-market value of the contract is positive, the mark-to-market value of the contract; or
(B) If the mark-to-market value of the contract is zero or negative, zero.
(ii)
Derivative contracts subject to an eligible master netting agreement.
The current credit exposure for multiple uncleared derivative contracts executed with a single counterparty and subject to an eligible master netting agreement shall be calculated on a net basis and shall equal:
(A) The net sum of all positive and negative mark-to-market values of the individual derivative contracts subject to the eligible master netting agreement, if the net sum of the mark-to-market values is positive; or
(B) Zero, if the net sum of the mark-to-market values is zero or negative.
(2)
Potential future credit exposure.
The potential future credit exposure for derivative contracts, including derivative contracts with a negative mark-to-market value, shall be calculated:
(i) Using an internal initial margin model that meets the requirements of § 1221.8 of this chapter and is approved by FHFA for use by the Bank, or using an initial margin model that has been approved under regulations similar to § 1221.8 of this chapter for use by the
Bank's counterparty to calculate initial margin for those derivative contracts for which the calculation is being done; or
(ii) By applying the standardized approach in appendix A to part 1221 of this chapter; or
(iii) Using an initial margin model that is employed by a derivatives clearing organization.
(j)
Credit risk capital charge for non-mortgage assets hedged with credit derivatives
—(1)
Credit derivatives with a remaining maturity of one year or more.
The credit risk capital charge for a non-mortgage asset that is hedged with a credit derivative that has a remaining maturity of one year or more may be reduced only in accordance with paragraph (j)(3) or (4) of this section and only if the credit derivative provides substantial protection against credit losses.
(2)
Credit derivatives with a remaining maturity of less than one year.
The credit risk capital charge for a non-mortgage asset that is hedged with a credit derivative that has a remaining maturity of less than one year may be reduced only in accordance with paragraph (j)(3) of this section and only if the remaining maturity on the credit derivative is identical to or exceeds the remaining maturity of the hedged non-mortgage asset and the credit derivative provides substantial protection against credit losses.
(3)
Credit risk capital charge reduced to zero.
The credit risk capital charge for a non-mortgage asset shall be zero if a credit derivative is used to hedge the credit risk on that asset in accordance with paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, provided that:
(i) The remaining maturity for the credit derivative used for the hedge is identical to or exceeds the remaining maturity for the hedged non-mortgage asset, and either:
(A) The non-mortgage asset referenced in the credit derivative is identical to the hedged non-mortgage asset; or
(B) The non-mortgage asset referenced in the credit derivative is different from the hedged non-mortgage asset, but only if the asset referenced in the credit derivative and the hedged non-mortgage asset have been issued by the same obligor, the asset referenced in the credit derivative ranks pari passu to, or more junior than, the hedged non-mortgage asset and has the same maturity as the hedged non-mortgage asset, and cross-default clauses apply; and
(ii) The credit risk capital charge for the credit derivative contract calculated pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is still applied.
(4)
Capital charge reduction in certain other cases.
The credit risk capital charge for a non-mortgage asset hedged with a credit derivative in accordance with paragraph (j)(1) of this section shall equal the sum of the credit risk capital charges for the hedged and unhedged portion of the non-mortgage asset provided that:
(i) The remaining maturity for the credit derivative is less than the remaining maturity for the hedged non-mortgage asset and either:
(A) The non-mortgage asset referenced in the credit derivative is identical to the hedged non-mortgage asset; or
(B) The non-mortgage asset referenced in the credit derivative is different from the hedged non-mortgage asset, but only if the asset referenced in the credit derivative and the hedged non-mortgage asset have been issued by the same obligor, the asset referenced in the credit derivative ranks pari passu to, or more junior than, the hedged non-mortgage asset and has the same maturity as the hedged non-mortgage asset, and cross-default clauses apply; and
(ii) The credit risk capital charge for the unhedged portion of the non-mortgage asset equals:
(A) The credit risk capital charge for the non-mortgage asset, calculated as the amortized cost, or fair value, of the non-mortgage asset multiplied by that asset's credit risk percentage requirement assigned pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section where the appropriate credit rating is that for the non-mortgage asset and the appropriate maturity is the remaining maturity of the non-mortgage asset; minus
(B) The credit risk capital charge for the non-mortgage asset, calculated as the amortized cost, or fair value, of the non-mortgage asset multiplied by that
asset's credit risk percentage requirement assigned pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section where the appropriate credit rating is that for the non-mortgage asset but the appropriate maturity is deemed to be the remaining maturity of the credit derivative; and
(iii) The credit risk capital charge for the hedged portion of the non-mortgage asset is equal to the credit risk capital charge for the credit derivative, calculated in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(k)
Frequency of calculations.
Each Bank shall perform all calculations required by this section at least quarterly, unless otherwise directed by FHFA, using the advances, residential mortgages, residential mortgage pools, residential mortgage securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, non-rated assets, non-mortgage assets, off-balance sheet items, and derivative contracts held by the Bank, and, if applicable, the values of, or FHFA Credit Ratings categories for, such assets, off-balance sheet items, or derivative contracts as of the close of business of the last business day of the calendar period for which the credit risk capital charge is being calculated.
§ 1277.5
Market risk capital requirement.
(a)
General requirement.
(1) Each Bank's market risk capital requirement shall equal the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk from movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, and equity prices that could occur during periods of market stress, where the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk is determined using an internal market-risk model that fulfills the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and that has been approved by FHFA.
(2) A Bank may substitute an internal cash-flow model to derive a market risk capital requirement in place of that calculated using an internal market-risk model under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that:
(i) The Bank obtains FHFA approval of the internal cash-flow model and of the assumptions to be applied to the model; and
(ii) The Bank demonstrates to FHFA that the internal cash-flow model subjects the Bank's assets and liabilities, off-balance sheet items, and derivative contracts, including related options, to a comparable degree of stress for such factors as will be required for an internal market-risk model.
(b)
Measurement of market value-at-risk under a Bank's internal market-risk model.
(1) Except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each Bank shall use an internal market-risk model that estimates the market value of the Bank's assets and liabilities, off-balance sheet items, and derivative contracts, including any related options, and measures the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk of its assets and liabilities, off-balance sheet items, and derivative contracts, including related options, from all sources of the Bank's market risks, except that the Bank's model need only incorporate those risks that are material.
(2) The Bank's internal market-risk model may use any generally accepted measurement technique, such as variance-covariance models, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations, for estimating the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk, provided that any measurement technique used must cover the Bank's material risks.
(3) The measures of the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk shall include the risks arising from the non-linear price characteristics of options and the sensitivity of the market value of options to changes in the volatility of the options' underlying rates or prices.
(4) The Bank's internal market-risk model shall use interest rate and market price scenarios for estimating the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk, but at a minimum:
(i) The Bank's internal market-risk model shall provide an estimate of the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk such that the probability of a loss greater than that estimated shall be no more than one percent;
(ii) The Bank's internal market-risk model shall incorporate scenarios that reflect changes in interest rates, interest rate volatility, option-adjusted spreads, and shape of the yield curve,
and changes in market prices, equivalent to those that have been observed over 120-business day periods of market stress. For interest rates, the relevant historical observations should be drawn from the period that starts at the end of the previous month and goes back to the beginning of 1998;
(iii) The total number of, and specific historical observations identified by the Bank as, stress scenarios shall be:
(A) Satisfactory to FHFA;
(B) Representative of the periods of the greatest potential market stress given the Bank's portfolio; and
(C) Comprehensive given the modeling capabilities available to the Bank; and
(iv) The measure of the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk may incorporate empirical correlations among interest rates.
(5) For any consolidated obligations denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars or linked to equity or commodity prices, each Bank shall, in addition to fulfilling the criteria of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, calculate an estimate of the market value of its portfolio at risk resulting from material foreign exchange, equity price or commodity price risk, such that, at a minimum:
(i) The probability of a loss greater than that estimated shall not exceed one percent;
(ii) The scenarios reflect changes in foreign exchange, equity, or commodity market prices that have been observed over 120-business day periods of market stress, as determined using historical data that is from an appropriate period;
(iii) The total number of, and specific historical observations identified by the Bank as, stress scenarios shall be:
(A) Satisfactory to FHFA;
(B) Representative of the periods of the greatest potential stress given the Bank's portfolio; and
(C) Comprehensive given the modeling capabilities available to the Bank; and
(iv) The measure of the market value of the Bank's portfolio at risk may incorporate empirical correlations within or among foreign exchange rates, equity prices, or commodity prices.
(c)
Independent validation of Bank internal market-risk model or internal cash-flow model.
(1) Each Bank shall conduct an independent validation of its internal market-risk model or internal cash-flow model within the Bank that is carried out by personnel not reporting to the business line responsible for conducting business transactions for the Bank. Alternatively, the Bank may obtain independent validation by an outside party qualified to make such determinations. Validations shall be done periodically, commensurate with the risk associated with the use of the model, or as frequently as required by FHFA.
(2) The results of such independent validations shall be reviewed by the Bank's board of directors and provided promptly to FHFA.
(d)
FHFA approval of Bank internal market-risk model or internal cash-flow model.
(1) Each Bank shall obtain FHFA approval of an internal market-risk model or an internal cash-flow model, including subsequent material adjustments to the model made by the Bank, prior to the use of any model. Each Bank shall make such adjustments to its model as may be directed by FHFA.
(2) A model and any material adjustments to such model that were approved by FHFA or the Federal Housing Finance Board shall be deemed to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, unless such approval is revoked or amended by FHFA.
(e)
Frequency of calculations.
Each Bank shall perform any calculations or estimates required under this section at least quarterly, unless otherwise directed by FHFA, using the assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items (including derivative contracts and options) held by the Bank, and if applicable, the values of any such holdings, as of the close of business of the last business day of the calendar period for which the market risk capital requirement is being calculated.
§ 1277.6
Operational risk capital requirement.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as authorized under paragraph (b) of this section, each Bank's operational risk
capital requirement shall at all times equal 30 percent of the sum of the Bank's credit risk capital requirement and market risk capital requirement.
(b)
Alternative requirements.
With the approval of FHFA, each Bank may have an operational risk capital requirement equal to less than 30 percent but no less than 10 percent of the sum of the Bank's credit risk capital requirement and market risk capital requirement if:
(1) The Bank provides an alternative methodology for assessing and quantifying an operational risk capital requirement; or
(2) The Bank obtains insurance to cover operational risk from an insurer acceptable to FHFA and on terms acceptable to FHFA.
§ 1277.7
Limits on unsecured extensions of credit; reporting requirements.
(a)
Unsecured extensions of credit to a single counterparty.
A Bank shall not extend unsecured credit to any single counterparty (other than a GSE described in and subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section) in an amount that would exceed the limits of this paragraph (a). If a third-party provides an irrevocable, unconditional guarantee of repayment of a credit (or any part thereof), the third-party guarantor may be considered the counterparty for purposes of calculating and applying the unsecured credit limits of this section with respect to the guaranteed portion of the transaction.
(1)
General limits.
All unsecured extensions of credit by a Bank to a single counterparty that arise from the Bank's on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions (but excluding the amount of sales of federal funds with a maturity of one day or less and sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract) shall not exceed the product of the maximum capital exposure limit applicable to such counterparty, as determined in accordance with the following Table 1 to this section, multiplied by the lesser of:
(i) The Bank's total capital; or
(ii) The counterparty's Tier 1 capital, or if Tier 1 capital is not available, total capital (in each case as defined by the counterparty's principal regulator) or some similar comparable measure identified by the Bank.
(2)
Overall limits including sales of overnight federal funds.
All unsecured extensions of credit by a Bank to a single counterparty that arise from the Bank's on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions, including the amounts of sales of federal funds with a maturity of one day or less and sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract, shall not exceed twice the limit calculated pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3)
Limits for certain obligations issued by state, local, or tribal governmental agencies.
The limit set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, when applied to the marketable direct obligations of state, local, or tribal government units or agencies that are excluded from the prohibition against investments in whole mortgage loans or other types of whole loans, or interests in such loans, by § 1267.3(a)(4)(iii) of this chapter, shall be calculated based on the Bank's total capital and the internal credit rating assigned to the particular obligation, as determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section. If a Bank owns series or classes of obligations issued by a particular state, local, or tribal government unit or agency, or has extended other forms of unsecured credit to such entity falling into different rating categories, the total amount of unsecured credit extended by the Bank to that government unit or agency shall not exceed the limit associated with the highest-rated obligation issued by the entity and actually purchased by the Bank.
(4)
Bank determination of applicable maximum capital exposure limits.
A Bank shall determine the maximum capital exposure limit for each counterparty by assigning the counterparty to the appropriate FHFA Credit Rating category of Table 1 to this section, based upon the Bank's internal credit rating for that counterparty. In all cases, a Bank shall use the same FHFA Credit Rating category for a particular counterparty when determining its unsecured credit limit under this section as it would use under Table 2 to § 1277.4 for determining the risk-based capital
charge for obligations issued by that counterparty under § 1277.4(f).
Table 1 to § 1277.7—Maximum Limits on Unsecured Extensions of Credit to a Single Counter-party by FHFA Credit Rating Category
FHFA Credit Rating
Maximum capital
exposure limit
(in percent)
FHFA 1
15
FHFA 2
14
FHFA 3
9
FHFA 4
3
FHFA 5 and Below
1
(b)
Unsecured extensions of credit to affiliated counterparties
—(1)
In general.
The total amount of unsecured extensions of credit by a Bank to a group of affiliated counterparties that arise from the Bank's on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions, including sales of federal funds with a maturity of one day or less and sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract, shall not exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total capital.
(2)
Relation to individual limits.
The aggregate limits calculated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply in addition to the limits on extensions of unsecured credit to a single counterparty imposed by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Special limits for certain GSEs.
Unsecured extensions of credit by a Bank that arise from the Bank's on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions, including from the purchase of any debt or from any sales of federal funds with a maturity of one day or less and from sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract, with a GSE that is operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance from the United States government that enables the GSE to repay those obligations, shall not exceed the Bank's total capital.
(d)
Extensions of unsecured credit after reduced rating.
If a Bank revises its internal credit rating for any counterparty or obligation, it shall assign the counterparty or obligation to the appropriate FHFA Credit Rating category based on the revised rating. If the revised internal rating results in a lower FHFA Credit Rating category, then any subsequent extensions of unsecured credit shall comply with the maximum capital exposure limit applicable to that lower rating category, but a Bank need not unwind or liquidate any existing transaction or position that complied with the limits of this section at the time it was entered. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the renewal of an existing unsecured extension of credit, including any decision not to terminate any sales of federal funds subject to a continuing contract, shall be considered a subsequent extension of unsecured credit that can be undertaken only in accordance with the lower limit.
(e)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Total unsecured extensions of credit.
Each Bank shall report monthly to FHFA the amount of the Bank's total unsecured extensions of credit arising from on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions to any single counterparty or group of affiliated counterparties that exceeds 5 percent of:
(i) The Bank's total capital; or
(ii) The counterparty's, or affiliated counterparties' combined, Tier 1 capital, or if Tier 1 capital is not available, total capital (in each case as defined by the counterparty's principal regulator), or some similar comparable measure identified by the Bank.
(2)
Total secured and unsecured extensions of credit.
Each Bank shall report monthly to FHFA the amount of the Bank's total secured and unsecured extensions of credit arising from on- and off-balance sheet and derivative transactions to any single counterparty or group of affiliated counterparties that exceeds 5 percent of the Bank's total assets.
(3)
Extensions of credit in excess of limits.
A Bank shall report promptly to FHFA any extension of unsecured credit that exceeds any limit set forth in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. In making this report, a Bank shall provide the name of the counterparty or group of affiliated counterparties to which the excess unsecured credit has been extended, the dollar amount of the applicable limit which has been exceeded, the dollar amount by which the Bank's extension of unsecured credit exceeds such limit, the dates for which the Bank was not in compliance with
the limit, and a brief explanation of the circumstances that caused the limit to be exceeded.
(f)
Measurement of unsecured extensions of credit
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this section, unsecured extensions of credit will be measured as follows:
(i) For on-balance sheet transactions (other than a derivative transaction addressed by paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section), an amount equal to the sum of the amortized cost of the item plus net payments due the Bank. For any such item carried at fair value where any change in fair value would be recognized in the Bank's income, the Bank shall measure the unsecured extension of credit based on the fair value of the item, rather than its amortized cost;
(ii) For off-balance sheet transactions, an amount equal to the credit equivalent amount of such item, calculated in accordance with § 1277.4(h); and
(iii) For derivative transactions not cleared by a derivatives clearing organization, an amount equal to the sum of:
(A) The Bank's current and potential future credit exposures under the derivative contract, where those values are calculated in accordance with § 1277.4(i)(1) and (2) respectively, reduced by the amount of any collateral held by or on behalf of the Bank against the credit exposure from the derivative contract, as allowed in accordance with the requirements of § 1277.4(e)(2) and (3); and
(B) The value of any collateral posted by the Bank that exceeds the current amount owed by the Bank to its counterparty under the derivative contract, where the collateral is held by a person or entity other than a third-party custodian that is acting under a custody agreement that meets the requirements of § 1221.7(c) and (d) of this chapter.
(2)
Status of debt obligations purchased by the Bank.
Any debt obligation or debt security (other than mortgage-backed or other asset-backed securities or acquired member assets) purchased by a Bank shall be considered an unsecured extension of credit for the purposes of this section, except for:
(i) Any amount owed the Bank against which the Bank holds collateral in accordance with § 1277.4(f)(2)(ii); or
(ii) Any amount which FHFA has determined on a case-by-case basis shall not be considered an unsecured extension of credit.
(g)
Exceptions to unsecured credit limits.
The following items are not subject to the limits of this section:
(1) Obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States;
(2) A derivative transaction accepted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization, including collateral posted by the Bank with the derivatives clearing organization associated with that derivative transaction;
(3) Any extension of credit from one Bank to another Bank; and
(4) A bond issued by a state housing finance agency, if the Bank documents that the obligation in question is:
(i) Principally secured by high quality mortgage loans or high quality mortgage-backed securities (or funds derived from payments on such assets or from payments from any guarantees or insurance associated with such assets);
(ii) The most senior class of obligation, if the bond has more than one class; and
(iii) Determined by the Bank to be rated no lower than FHFA 2, in accordance with this section.
§ 1277.8
Reporting requirements.
Each Bank shall report information related to capital and other matters addressed by this part in accordance with instructions provided in the Data Reporting Manual issued by FHFA, as amended from time to time.

# Subpart C—Bank Capital Stock
§ 1277.20
Classes of capital stock.
The authorized capital stock of a Bank shall consist of the following instruments:
(a) Class A stock, which shall:
(1) Have a par value as determined by the board of directors of the Bank and stated in the Bank's capital plan;
(2) Be issued, redeemed, and repurchased only at its stated par value; and
(3) Be redeemable in cash only on six-months written notice to the Bank.
(b) Class B stock, which shall:
(1) Have a par value as determined by the board of directors of the Bank and stated in the Bank's capital plan;
(2) Be issued, redeemed, and repurchased only at its stated par value;
(3) Be redeemable in cash only on five-years written notice to the Bank; and
(4) Confer an ownership interest in the retained earnings, surplus, undivided profits, and equity reserves of the Bank.
(c) Any one or more subclasses of Class A or Class B stock, each of which may have different rights, terms, conditions, or preferences as may be authorized in the Bank's capital plan, provided, however, that each subclass of stock shall have all of the characteristics of its respective class, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
§ 1277.21
Issuance of capital stock.
A Bank may issue either one or both classes of its capital stock (including subclasses), as authorized by § 1277.20, and shall not issue any other class of capital stock. A Bank shall issue its stock only to its members, or to former members to the extent those institutions are required to maintain a minimum stock investment for existing activities under the capital plan, and only in book-entry form. The Bank shall act as its own transfer agent. All capital stock shall be issued in accordance with the Bank's capital plan.
§ 1277.22
Minimum investment in capital stock.
(a) A Bank shall require each member to maintain a minimum investment in the capital stock of the Bank, both as a condition to becoming and remaining a member of the Bank and as a condition to transacting business with the Bank or obtaining advances and other services from the Bank. The amount of the required minimum investment shall be determined in accordance with the Bank's capital plan and shall be sufficient to ensure that the Bank remains in compliance with its regulatory capital requirements. A Bank shall require each member to maintain its minimum investment for as long as the institution remains a member of the Bank and shall require each member and former member to maintain its minimum investment for as long as the institution engages in any activity with the Bank for which the capital plan requires the institution to maintain capital stock.
(b) A Bank may establish the minimum investment as a percentage of the total assets of an institution, as a percentage of the advances outstanding to that institution, as a percentage of any other business activity conducted with the institution, on any other basis that is approved by the Director, or any combination thereof.
(c) A Bank may require that the minimum investment requirement be satisfied through the purchase of either Class A or Class B stock, or through the purchase of one or more combinations of Class A and Class B stock that have been authorized by the board of directors of the Bank in its capital plan. A Bank, in its discretion, may establish a lower minimum investment to the extent the requirement is met through investment in Class B stock than if the requirement is met through investment in Class A stock, provided that such reduced investment provides sufficient capital for the Bank to remain in compliance with its regulatory capital requirements.
(d) Each member, or if applicable, former member, of a Bank shall at all times maintain an investment in the capital stock of the Bank in an amount that is sufficient to satisfy the minimum investment required under the Bank's capital plan.
§ 1277.23
Dividends.
(a)
In general.
A Bank may pay dividends on Class A or Class B stock, including any subclasses of such stock, only out of previously retained earnings or current net earnings, and shall declare and pay dividends only as provided by its capital plan. The capital plan may establish different dividend rates or preferences for each class or subclass of stock, which may include a dividend that tracks the economic performance of certain Bank assets, such as Acquired Member Assets. A member, including a member that has provided
the Bank with a notice of intent to withdraw from membership, or a former member shall be entitled to receive any dividends that a Bank declares on its capital stock while such institution owns the stock.
(b)
Limitation on payment of dividends.
In no event shall a Bank declare or pay any dividend on its capital stock if after doing so the Bank would fail to meet any of its regulatory capital requirements, nor shall a Bank that is not in compliance with any of its regulatory capital requirements declare or pay any dividend on its capital stock.
§ 1277.24
Liquidation, merger, or consolidation.
The respective rights of the Class A and Class B stockholders, in the event that the Bank is liquidated, merged, or otherwise consolidated with another Bank, shall be determined in accordance with the capital plan of the Bank, provided, however, that nothing in the capital plan shall be construed to limit any rights or authority granted FHFA under the Bank Act or the Safety and Soundness Act to issue any regulation or order or to take any other action that may affect or otherwise alter the rights or privileges of stock holders in a liquidation, merger, or consolidation of a Bank.
§ 1277.25
Transfer of capital stock.
A Bank in its capital plan may allow a member or former member to transfer any excess stock to a member of that Bank or to an institution that has been approved for membership in that Bank and that has satisfied all conditions for becoming a member, other than the purchase of the minimum amount of Bank stock that it is required to hold as a condition of membership. Any such stock transfers shall be at par value and shall be effective upon being recorded on the appropriate books and records of the Bank. The Bank may, in its capital plan, require that the transfer be approved by the Bank before such transfer can occur.
§ 1277.26
Redemption and repurchase of capital stock.
(a)
Redemption.
(1) A member or former member may have its stock in a Bank redeemed by providing written notice to the Bank in accordance with this section. A member or former member shall provide six-months written notice for Class A stock and five-years written notice for Class B stock. The notice shall indicate the number of shares of Bank stock that are to be redeemed. No more than one notice of redemption may be outstanding at one time for the same shares of Bank stock. At the expiration of the applicable notice period, the Bank shall pay to the member or other institution holding the stock the stated par value of that stock in cash.
(2) A member may cancel a notice of redemption by so informing the Bank in writing, and the Bank may impose a fee (to be specified in its capital plan) with respect to any cancellation of a pending notice of redemption. A request by a member (whose membership has not been terminated) to redeem specific shares of stock shall automatically be cancelled if the Bank is prevented from redeeming the member's stock by paragraph (c) of this section within five business days from the end of the expiration of the applicable redemption notice period because the member would fail to maintain its minimum investment in the stock of the Bank after such redemption. The automatic cancellation of a member's redemption request shall have the same effect as if the member had cancelled its notice to redeem stock prior to the end of the redemption notice period, and a Bank may impose a fee (to be specified in its capital plan) for automatic cancellation of a redemption request.
(3) A Bank shall not be obligated to redeem its capital stock other than in accordance with this paragraph.
(b)
Repurchase.
A Bank, in its discretion and without regard to the applicable redemption periods, may repurchase excess stock in accordance with the capital plan of that Bank. A Bank undertaking such a stock repurchase at its own initiative shall provide reasonable notice prior to repurchasing any excess stock, with the period of such notice to be specified in the Bank's capital plan, and shall pay the stated par value of that stock in cash. A member's submission of a notice of intent to withdraw from membership, or its
termination of membership in any other manner, shall not, in and of itself, cause any Bank stock to be deemed excess stock for purposes of this section.
(c)
Limitation.
In no event may a Bank redeem or repurchase any stock if, following the redemption or repurchase, the Bank would fail to meet its regulatory capital requirements, or if the member or former member would fail to maintain its minimum investment in the stock of the Bank, as required by § 1277.22.
§ 1277.27
Other restrictions on the repurchase or redemption of Bank stock.
(a)
Capital impairment.
A Bank may not redeem or repurchase any capital stock without the prior written approval of the Director if the Director or the board of directors of the Bank has determined that the Bank has incurred or is likely to incur losses that result in or are likely to result in charges against the capital of the Bank. This prohibition shall apply even if a Bank is currently in compliance with its regulatory capital requirements, and shall remain in effect for however long the Bank continues to incur such charges or until the Director determines that such charges are not expected to continue.
(b)
Bank discretion to suspend redemption.
A Bank, upon the approval of its board of directors, or of a subcommittee thereof, may suspend redemption of stock if the Bank reasonably believes that continued redemption of stock would cause the Bank to fail to meet its regulatory capital requirements, would prevent the Bank from maintaining adequate capital against a potential risk that may not be adequately reflected in its regulatory capital requirements, or would otherwise prevent the Bank from operating in a safe and sound manner. A Bank shall notify the Director in writing within two business days of the date of the decision to suspend the redemption of stock, providing the reasons for the suspension and the Bank's strategies and time frames for addressing the conditions that led to the suspension. The Director may require the Bank to re-institute the redemption of stock. A Bank shall not repurchase any stock without the written permission of the Director during any period in which the Bank has suspended redemption of stock under this paragraph.

# Subpart D—Bank Capital Plans
§ 1277.28
Bank capital plans.
Each Bank shall have in place a capital plan approved by the Bank's board of directors and the Director. The capital plan shall include, at a minimum, provisions addressing the following matters:
(a)
Minimum investment.
(1) The capital plan shall require each member, and if applicable each former member, to purchase and maintain a minimum investment in the capital stock of the Bank and prescribe the manner for calculating the minimum investment, in accordance with § 1277.22.
(2) The capital plan shall specify the amount and class (or classes) of Bank stock that an institution is required to own in order to become and remain a member of the Bank, and to obtain advances from, or to engage in other business transactions with, the Bank. If a Bank requires that the minimum investment be satisfied through the purchase of one or more combinations of Class A and Class B stock, the authorized combinations of stock shall be specified in the capital plan, which shall afford the option of satisfying the minimum investment through the purchase of any such combination of stock.
(3) The capital plan shall require the board of directors of the Bank to monitor and, as necessary, to adjust, the minimum investment to ensure that outstanding stock remains sufficient for the Bank to comply with its regulatory capital requirements. The plan shall require each member or, where required by the plan, former member, to comply promptly with any adjusted minimum investment established by the board of directors of the Bank, but may allow a reasonable time to do so and may allow a reduction in outstanding business with the Bank as an alternative to purchasing additional stock.
(b)
Classes of capital stock.
The capital plan shall specify the class or classes of
stock (including subclasses, if any) that the Bank will issue, and shall establish the par value, rights, terms, and preferences associated with each class (or subclass) of stock. A Bank may establish preferences relating to, but not limited to, the dividend, voting, or liquidation rights for each class or subclass of Bank stock. Any voting preferences established by the Bank pursuant to § 1261.6 of this chapter shall expressly state the voting rights of each class of stock with regard to the election of Bank directors. The capital plan shall provide that the owners of the Class B stock own the retained earnings, surplus, undivided profits, and equity reserves of the Bank, but shall have no right to receive any portion of those items, except through declaration of a dividend or capital distribution approved by the board of directors or through the liquidation of the Bank.
(c)
Dividends.
The capital plan shall establish the manner in which the Bank will pay dividends, if any, on each class or subclass of stock, and shall provide that the Bank may not declare or pay any dividends if it is not in compliance with any regulatory capital requirement or if after paying the dividend it would not be in compliance with any regulatory capital requirement.
(d)
Stock transactions.
The capital plan shall establish the criteria for the issuance, redemption, repurchase, transfer, and retirement of stock issued by the Bank. The capital plan also:
(1) Shall provide that the Bank may not issue stock other than in accordance with § 1277.21;
(2) Shall provide that the stock of the Bank may be issued only to and held only by the members of that Bank, and by former members to the extent necessary to meet requirements set forth in a capital plan;
(3) Shall specify whether the stock of the Bank may be transferred, as allowed under § 1277.25, and, if such transfer is allowed, shall specify the procedures to effect such transfer, and provide that the transfer shall be undertaken only in accordance with § 1277.25;
(4) Shall specify that the stock of the Bank may be traded only among the Bank and its members, and former members;
(5) May provide for a minimum investment based on investment in Class B stock that is lower than a minimum investment based on investment in Class A stock, provided that the level of investment is sufficient for the Bank to comply with its regulatory capital requirements;
(6) Shall specify the fee, if any, to be imposed upon cancellation of a request to redeem Bank stock or upon cancellation of a request to withdraw from membership; and
(7) Shall specify the period of notice that the Bank will provide before the Bank, on its own initiative, determines to repurchase any excess Bank stock.
(e)
Termination of membership.
The capital plan shall address the manner in which the Bank will provide for the disposition of its capital stock that is held by institutions that terminate their membership, and the manner in which the Bank will liquidate claims against such institutions, including claims resulting from prepayment of advances prior to their stated maturity.
§ 1277.29
Amendments to a Bank's capital plan.
(a)
In general.
A Bank's board of directors shall approve any amendments to the Bank's capital plan and submit such amendment to the Director for approval. No such amendment may take effect until it has been approved by the Director.
(b)
Submission of amendments for approval.
Any request for approval of capital plan amendments should be submitted to the Deputy Director for the Division of Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation and should include the following:
(1) The name of the Bank making the request and the name, title, and contact information of the official filing the request;
(2) The name, title and contact information of the staff member(s) whom FHFA may contact for additional information;
(3) A certification by an executive officer of the Bank with knowledge of the facts that the representations made in the request are accurate and complete.
