(e) If an owner or operator uses a control device other than those specified in § 63.489(b) and listed in Table 6 of this subpart or requests approval to monitor a parameter other than those specified in § 63.489(b) and listed in Table 6 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures, as specified in § 63.506(f), as part of the Precompliance Report as required under § 63.506(e)(3). The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the Precompliance Report.
(f) Owners or operators of affected sources complying with § 63.489(d), shall comply with paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) Submit reports of the times of all periods recorded under § 63.491(e)(3) when the batch front-end process vent is diverted away from the control device through a bypass line, with the next Periodic Report. Include the start date, start time and duration in hours of each period.
(2) Submit reports of all occurrences recorded under § 63.491(e)(4) in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line damper or valve was checked out, with the next Periodic Report. Include the start date, start time and duration in hours of each period.
(g) For any maintenance vent release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.487(i)(1), the Periodic Report must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section. For the purposes of this reporting requirement, if an owner or operator complies with § 63.487(i)(1)(iv), then the owner or operator must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.
(1) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.
(2) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.
(3) The LEL in percent, vessel pressure in psig, or mass in pounds of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.487(i)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the concentration of the vapor was 10 percent or greater of its LEL, also include the concentration of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.
(4) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38065, June 19, 2000; 89 FR 43250, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.493
Back-end process provisions.
Owners and operators of new and existing affected sources shall comply with the requirements in §§ 63.494 through 63.500. Owners and operators of affected sources whose only elastomer products are latex products, liquid rubber products, or products produced in a gas-phased reaction process, are not subject to the provisions of §§ 63.494 through 63.500. If latex or liquid rubber products are produced in an affected source that also produces another elastomer product, the provisions of §§ 63.494 through 63.500 do not apply to the back-end operations dedicated to the production of one or more latex products, or to the back-end operations during the production of a latex product. Table 8 to this subpart contains a summary of compliance alternative requirements for the emission limits in
§ 63.494(a)(1)-(3) and associated requirements.
[76 FR 22589, Apr. 21, 2011]
§ 63.494
Back-end process provisions—residual organic HAP and emission limitations.
(a) The monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content of all grades of styrene butadiene rubber produced by the emulsion process, polybutadiene rubber and styrene butadiene rubber produced by the solution process, and ethylene-propylene rubber produced by the solution process that is processed, shall be measured after the stripping operation (or the reactor(s), if the plant has no stripper(s)), as specified in § 63.495(d), and shall not exceed the limits provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. Owners or operators of these affected sources shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section using either stripping technology, or control or recovery devices. The organic HAP emissions from all back-end process operations at affected sources producing butyl rubber, epichlorohydrin elastomer, neoprene, and nitrile butadiene rubber shall not exceed the limits determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For styrene butadiene rubber produced by the emulsion process:
(i) A monthly weighted average of 0.40 kg styrene per megagram (Mg) latex for existing affected sources; and
(ii) A monthly weighted average of 0.23 kg styrene per Mg latex for new sources;
(2) For polybutadiene rubber and styrene butadiene rubber produced by the solution process:
(i) A monthly weighted average of 10 kg total organic HAP per Mg crumb rubber (dry weight) for existing affected sources; and
(ii) A monthly weighted average of 6 kg total organic HAP per Mg crumb rubber (dry weight) for new sources.
(3) For ethylene-propylene rubber produced by the solution process:
(i) A monthly weighted average of 8 kg total organic HAP per Mg crumb rubber (dry weight) for existing affected sources; and
(ii) A monthly weighted average of 5 kg total organic HAP per Mg crumb rubber (dry weight) for new sources.
(4) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the organic HAP emissions from back-end processes at affected sources producing butyl rubber, epichlorohydrin elastomer, neoprene, and nitrile butadiene rubber shall not exceed the limits determined in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section for any consecutive 12-month period. The specific limitation for each elastomer type shall be determined based on the calculation or the emissions level provided in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section divided by the base year elastomer product that leaves the stripping operation (or the reactor(s), if the plant has no stripper(s)). The limitation shall be calculated and submitted in accordance with § 63.499(f)(1).
(i) For butyl rubber, the organic HAP emission limitation shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER21AP11.003
Where:
Be
2009
= Bypass emissions in 2009, Mg/yr
BREL = Butyl rubber emission limit, Mg organic HAP emissions/Mg butyl rubber produced
Ce
2009
= Controlled emissions in 2009, Mg/yr
P
2009
= Total elastomer product leaving the stripper in 2009, Mg/yr
UCe
2009
= Uncontrolled emissions in 2009, Mg/yr
1.35 = variability factor, unitless
(ii) For epichlorohydrin elastomer, the organic HAP emission limitation, in units of Mg organic HAP emissions per Mg of epichlorohydrin elastomer
produced, shall be calculated by dividing 51 Mg/yr by the mass of epichlorohydrin elastomer produced in 2009, in Mg.
(iii) For neoprene, the organic HAP emission limitation, in units of Mg organic HAP emissions per Mg of neoprene produced, shall be calculated by dividing 30 Mg/yr by the mass of neoprene produced in 2007, in Mg.
(iv) For nitrile butadiene rubber, the organic HAP emission limitation, in units of Mg organic HAP emissions per Mg of nitrile butadiene rubber produced, shall be calculated by dividing 2.4 Mg/yr by the mass of nitrile butadiene rubber produced in 2009, in Mg.
(5) For EPPU that produce both an elastomer product with a residual organic HAP limitation listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, and a product listed in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, only the residual HAP content of the elastomer product with a residual organic HAP limitation shall be used in determining the monthly average residual organic HAP content.
(i) Resins;
(ii) Liquid rubber products;
(iii) Latexes from which crumb rubber is not coagulated; or
(iii) Elastomer products listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(6) There are no back-end process operation residual organic HAP or emission limitations for Hypalon
TM
and polysulfide rubber production. There are also no back-end process operation residual organic HAP limitations for latex products, liquid rubber products, products produced in a gas-phased reaction process, styrene butadiene rubber produced by any process other than a solution or emulsion process, polybutadiene rubber produced by any process other than a solution process, or ethylene-propylene rubber produced by any process other than a solution process.
(7) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the back-end process vent contains chloroprene such that it is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.
(i) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each process vent or to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(ii) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section for back-end process vents in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.
(iii) An owner or operator may designate a back-end process vent in chloroprene service as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service; however, owners and operators may not release more than 1.0 tons of chloroprene from all maintenance vents combined (
i.e.,
including maintenance vents subject to this paragraph (a)(7)(iii), § 63.485(z), or § 63.487(i)(4)) per any consecutive 12-month period. The owner or operator must keep monthly records of the quantity in tons of chloroprene released from each maintenance vent and include a description of the method used to estimate this quantity.
(b) If an owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section using stripping technology, compliance shall be demonstrated in accordance with § 63.495. The owner or operator shall also comply with the recordkeeping provisions in § 63.498, and the reporting provisions in § 63.499.
(c) If an owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section using control or recovery devices, compliance shall be demonstrated using the procedures in § 63.496. The owner or operator shall
also comply with the monitoring provisions in § 63.497, the recordkeeping provisions in § 63.498, and the reporting provisions in § 63.499.
(d) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, if the owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section using a flare, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the requirements in § 63.504(c).
(e) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies and instead if the owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section using a flare, the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38065, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22589, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43251, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.495
Back-end process provisions—procedures to determine compliance with residual organic HAP limitations using stripping technology and organic HAP emissions limitations.
(a) If an owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) using stripping technology, compliance shall be demonstrated using the periodic sampling procedures in paragraph (b) of this section, or using the stripper parameter monitoring procedures in paragraph (c) of this section. The owner or operator shall determine the monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content for each month in which any portion of the back-end of an elastomer production process is in operation. A single monthly weighted average shall be determined for all back-end process operations at the affected source.
(b) If the owner or operator is demonstrating compliance using periodic sampling, this demonstration shall be in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section,
(1) The location of the sampling shall be in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) The frequency of the sampling shall be in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) If a stripper operated in batch mode is used, at least one representative sample is to be taken from every batch of elastomer produced, at the location specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and identified by elastomer type and by the date and time the batch is completed.
(ii) If a stripper operated in continuous mode is used, at least one representative sample is to be taken each operating day. The sample is to be taken at the location specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and identified by elastomer type and by the date and time the sample was taken.
(3) The residual organic HAP content in each sample is to be determined using the Methods specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) The quantity of material (weight of latex or dry crumb rubber) represented by each sample shall be recorded. Acceptable methods of determining this quantity are production records, measurement of stream characteristics, and engineering calculations.
(5) The monthly weighted average shall be determined using the equation in paragraph (f) of this section. All representative samples taken and analyzed during the month shall be used in the determination of the monthly weighted average.
(c) If the owner or operator is demonstrating compliance using stripper parameter monitoring, this demonstration shall be in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall establish stripper operating parameter levels for each grade in accordance with § 63.505(e).
(2) The owner or operator shall monitor the stripper operating parameters at all times the stripper is in operation. Readings of each parameter shall be made at intervals no greater than 15 minutes.
(3) The residual organic HAP content for each grade shall be determined in accordance with either paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) If during the processing of a grade in the stripper, all hourly average parameter values are in accordance with operating parameter levels established in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall use the residual organic HAP content determined in accordance with § 63.505(e)(1).
(ii) If during the processing of a grade in the stripper, the hourly average of any stripper monitoring parameter is not in accordance with an established operating parameter level, the residual organic HAP content shall be determined using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section.
(4) The monthly weighted average shall be determined using the equation in paragraph (f) of this section.
(d) The location of the sampling shall be in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.
(1) For styrene butadiene rubber produced by the emulsion process, the sample shall be a sample of the latex taken at the location specified in either paragraph (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), or (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) When the latex is not blended with other materials or latexes, the sample shall be taken at a location meeting all of the following criteria:
(A) After the stripping operation,
(B) Prior to entering the coagulation operations, and
(C) Before the addition of carbon black or oil extenders.
(ii) When two or more latexes subject to this subpart are blended, samples may be taken in accordance with either paragraph (d)(1)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section, at a location meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) (A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Individual samples may be taken of each latex prior to blending, or
(B) A sample of the blended latex may be taken.
(iii) When a latex subject to this subpart is blended with a latex or material not subject to this subpart, a sample shall be taken of the latex prior to blending at a location meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) (A) through (C) of this section.
(2) For styrene butadiene rubber produced by the solution process, polybutadiene rubber produced by the solution process, and ethylene-propylene rubber produced by the solution process, the sample shall be a sample of crumb rubber taken as soon as safe and feasible after the stripping operation, but no later than the entry point for the first unit operation following the stripper (e.g., the dewatering screen).
(e) The residual organic HAP content in each sample is to be determined using the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For styrene butadiene rubber produced by the emulsion process, either Method 312a, 312b, or 312c of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, shall be used.
(2) For styrene butadiene rubber produced by the solution process, either Method 313a or 313b of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, shall be used.
(3) For polybutadiene rubber produced by the solution process, either Method 313a or 313b of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, shall be used.
(4) For ethylene-propylene rubber produced by the solution process, either Method 310a, 310b, or 310c of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, shall be used.
(5) Alternatively, any other method that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, may be used.
(f) The monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content shall be calculated using Equation 26.
ER19JN00.019
Where:
HAPCONT
avg,mo
= Monthly weighted average organic HAP content for all rubber processed at the affected source, kg organic HAP per Mg latex or dry crumb rubber.
n = Number of samples in the month.
C
i
= Residual organic HAP content of sample i, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) or (c)(3) of this section, kg organic HAP per Mg latex or dry crumb rubber.
P
i
= Weight of latex or dry crumb rubber represented by sample i.
P
mo
= Weight of latex or dry crumb rubber (Mg) processed in the month.
(g) Compliance with the organic HAP emission limitations determined in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4) shall be demonstrated in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Calculate your organic HAP emission limitation in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv), as applicable, record it, and submit it in accordance with § 63.499(f)(1).
(2) Each month, calculate and record the organic HAP emissions from all back-end process operations using engineering assessment. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) Previous test results, provided the test was representative of current operating practices.
(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data obtained under conditions representative of current process operating conditions.
(iii) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(A) Use of material balances;
(B) Estimation of flow rate based on physical equipment design, such as pump or blower capacities;
(C) Estimation of organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions; and
(D) Estimation of organic HAP concentrations based on grab samples of the liquid or vapor.
(3) Each month, record the mass of elastomer product produced.
(4) Each month, calculate and record the sums of the organic HAP emissions and the mass of elastomer produced for the previous calendar 12-month period.
(5) Each month, divide the total mass of organic HAP emitted for the previous calendar 12-month period by the total mass of elastomer produced during this 12-month period. This value must be recorded in accordance with § 63.498(e) and reported in accordance with § 63.499(f)(2).
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11543, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38066, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22590, Apr. 21, 2011]
§ 63.496
Back-end process provisions—procedures to determine compliance with residual organic HAP limitations using control or recovery devices.
(a) If an owner or operator complies with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) using control or recovery devices, compliance shall be demonstrated using the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Previous test results conducted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section may be used to determine compliance in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Compliance shall be demonstrated using the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section, as applicable.
(1) A test shall be conducted, the duration of which shall be in accordance with either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) If the back-end process operations are continuous, the test shall consist of three separate one hour runs.
(ii) If the back-end process operations are batch, the test shall consist of three separate one-hour runs, unless the duration of the batch cycle is less than one-hour, in which case the run length shall equal the complete duration of the back-end process batch cycle.
(2) The test shall be conducted when the grade of elastomer product with the highest residual organic HAP content leaving the stripper is processed in the back-end operations.
(3) The uncontrolled residual organic HAP content in the latex or dry crumb rubber shall be determined in accordance with § 63.495(b)(1) and (b)(3). A separate sample shall be taken and analyzed for each test run. The sample
shall be representative of the material being processed in the back-end operation during the test, and does not need to be taken during the test.
(4) The quantity of material (weight of latex or dry crumb rubber) processed during the test run shall be recorded. Acceptable methods of determining this quantity are production records, measurement of stream characteristics, and engineering calculations.
(5) The inlet and outlet emissions from the control or recovery device shall be determined using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) of this section, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (b)(6) and (b)(7) of this section. The inlet and outlet emissions shall be determined when the material for which the uncontrolled residual organic HAP content is determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, is being processed in the equipment controlled by the control or recovery device.
(i) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites. Sampling sites for inlet emissions shall be located as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) or (b)(5)(i)(B) of this section. Sampling sites for outlet emissions shall be located at the outlet of the control or recovery device.
(A) The inlet sampling site shall be located at the exit of the back-end process unit operation before any opportunity for emission to the atmosphere [with the exception of equipment in compliance with the requirements in §§ 63.502(a) through 63.502(m)], and before any control or recovery device.
(B) If back-end process vent streams are combined prior to being routed to control or recovery devices, the inlet sampling site may be for the combined stream, as long as there is no opportunity for emission to the atmosphere [with the exception of equipment in compliance with the requirements in §§ 63.502(a) through 63.502(m)] from any of the streams prior to being combined.
(ii) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.
(iii) To determine the inlet and outlet total organic HAP concentrations, the owner or operator must use Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part may be used. The minimum sampling time for each run must be in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, during which either an integrated sample or grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals during the run, with the time between samples no greater than 15 minutes.
(iv) The mass rate of total organic HAP shall be computed using Equations 27 and 28.
ER05SE96.026
where:
C
ij
, C
oj
= Concentration of sample component j of the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control or recovery device, respectively, dry basis, ppmv.
E
i
, E
o
= Mass rate of total organic HAP at the inlet and outlet of the control or recovery device, respectively, dry basis, kg per hour (kg/hr).
M
ij
, M
oj
= Molecular weight of sample component j of the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control or recovery device, respectively, gm/gm-mole.
Q
i
, Q
o
= Flow rate of gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control or recovery device, respectively, dry standard m
3
/min.
K
2
= Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(ppmv)
−1
(gm-mole/scm) (kg/gm) (min/hr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
(v) Inlet and outlet organic HAP emissions for the run shall be calculated by multiplying the mass rate total inlet and outlet emissions determined in accordance with paragraph
(b)(5)(iv) of this section by the duration of the run (in hours).
(6) If a back-end process vent stream is introduced with the combustion air, or as a secondary fuel into a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts, the inlet and outlet emissions shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iv) of this section.
(i) The inlet organic HAP emissions for the back-end process unit operation shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(ii) The owner or operator shall also measure total organic HAP (or TOC, minus methane and ethane) emissions in all process vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater, using the procedures in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (b)(6)(ii)(A) through (b)(6)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) Selection of the location of the inlet sampling sites shall ensure the measurement of total organic HAP concentrations in all process vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater.
(B) Paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section is applicable, except that TOC (minus methane and ethane) may be measured instead of total organic HAP.
(C) The mass rates shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section, except that C
j
at the inlet and outlet of the control device shall be the sum of all total organic HAP (or TOC, minus methane and ethane) concentrations for all process vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater.
(iii) The control efficiency of the boiler or process heater shall be calculated using Equation 29.
ER05SE96.027
where:
R = Control efficiency of boiler or process heater, percent.
E
inlet
= Mass rate of total organic HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) for all process vent streams and primary and secondary fuels at the inlet to the boiler or process heater, kg organic HAP/hr or kg TOC/hr.
E
outlet
= Mass rate of total organic HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) for all process vent streams and primary and secondary fuels at the outlet to the boiler or process heater, kg organic HAP/hr or kg TOC/hr.
(iv) The outlet total organic HAP emissions associated with the back-end process unit operation shall be calculated using Equation 30, as shown in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(7) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a source test to determine the outlet organic HAP emissions if any control device specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (b)(7)(vi) of this section is used. For these devices, the inlet emissions associated with the back-end process unit operation shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, and the outlet emissions shall be calculated using the equation in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(i) A flare. (A) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i)(B) of this section, the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance as provided in § 63.504(c).
(B) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (b)(7)(i)(A) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(ii) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.
(iii) A boiler or process heater into which the process vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel.
(iv) A control device for which a performance test was conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA and the test was conducted using the same Methods specified in this section and either no deliberate process changes have been made since the test, or the owner or operator can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(v) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator:
(A) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or
(B) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(vi) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR Part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.
(8) If one of the control devices listed in paragraph (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section is used, the outlet emissions shall be calculated using Equation 30.
ER19JN00.020
where:
E
o
= Mass rate of total organic HAP at the outlet of the control or recovery device, dry basis, kg/hr.
E
i
= Mass rate of total organic HAP at the inlet of the control or recovery device, dry basis, kg/hr, determined using the procedures in paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.
R = Control efficiency of control device, as specified in paragraph (b)(8)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i) If a back-end process vent stream is introduced with the combustion air, or as a secondary fuel into a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts, the control efficiency of the boiler or process heater shall be determined using the procedures in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.
(ii) If a back-end process vent is controlled using a control device specified in paragraph (b)(7) (i), (ii), (iii), or (v) of this section, the control device efficiency shall be assumed to be 98 percent.
(iii) If a back-end process vent is controlled using a control device specified in paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section, the control device efficiency shall be the efficiency determined in the previous performance test.
(c) Compliance shall be determined using the procedures in this paragraph.
(1) For each test run, the residual organic HAP content, adjusted for the control or recovery device emission reduction, shall be calculated using Equation 31.
ER19JN00.021
Where:
HAPCONT
run
= Residual organic HAP content, kg organic HAP per kg elastomer (latex or dry crumb rubber).
C = Total uncontrolled organic HAP content, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, kg organic HAP per kg latex or dry crumb rubber.
P = Weight of latex or dry crumb rubber processed during test run.
E
i,run
= Mass rate of total organic HAP at the inlet of the control or recovery device, dry basis, kg per test run.
E
o,run
= Mass rate of total organic HAP at the outlet of the control or recovery device, dry basis, kg per test run.
(2) A facility is in compliance if the average of the organic HAP contents calculated for all three test runs is
below the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3).
(d) An owner or operator complying with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) using a control or recovery device, shall redetermine the compliance status through the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section whenever process changes are made. The owner or operator shall report the results of the redetermination in accordance with § 63.499(d). For the purposes of this section, a process change is any action that would reasonably be expected to impair the performance of the control or recovery device. For the purposes of this section, the production of an elastomer with a residual organic HAP content greater than the residual organic HAP content of the elastomer used in the compliance demonstration constitutes a process change, unless the overall effect of the change is to reduce organic HAP emissions from the source as a whole. Other examples of process changes may include changes in production capacity or production rate, or removal or addition of equipment. For the purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; or changes that reduce the residual organic HAP content of the elastomer.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38066, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22591, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43251, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.497
Back-end process provisions—monitoring provisions for control and recovery devices used to comply with residual organic HAP limitations.
(a) An owner or operator complying with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) using control or recovery devices, or a combination of stripping and control or recovery devices, shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.
(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(2) Where a flare is used, except as specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.
(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.
(4) For an absorber, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device are required, each equipped with a continuous recorder.
(5) For a condenser, a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.
(6) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, for a carbon adsorber, an integrating regeneration steam flow, nitrogen flow, or pressure monitoring device having an accuracy of at least ±10 percent of the flow rate, level, or pressure, capable of recording the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute) for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.
(7) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (a)(2) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(8) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), if the owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then the owner or operator must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.
(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(B) of this section. The owner or operator must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.
(iii) Comply with paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.482, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph, “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. The owner or operator must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.
(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.
(b) An owner or operator may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required by paragraph (a) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.506(f) or (g). Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator:
(1) Uses a control or recovery device other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Uses one of the control or recovery devices listed in paragraph (a) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter, that indicates proper operation of the control or recovery device for each parameter monitored under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section. This level is determined in accordance with § 63.505. The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application, as required in § 63.506(e)(5) or (e)(8), respectively. The owner or operator shall operate control and recovery devices so that the daily average value is above or below the established level, as required, to ensure continued compliance with the standard, except as otherwise stated in this subpart.
(d) The owner or operator of an affected source with a controlled back-end process vent using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control or recovery device used to comply with § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and
pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.
(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.498(d)(5)(iii). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or
(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n):
(i) The use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions (subject to the emission standards in § 63.487) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in this subpart is an emissions standards violation.
(ii) The last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section apply.
(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4) of subpart H of this part, equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.
(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38067, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22591, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43252, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.498
Back-end process provisions—recordkeeping.
(a) Each owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), and paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) The type of elastomer product processed in the back-end operation.
(2) The type of process (solution process, emulsion process, etc.)
(3) If the back-end process operation is subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), whether compliance will be achieved by stripping technology, or by control or recovery devices.
(4) If the back-end process operation is subject to an emission limitation in § 63.494(a)(4), the organic HAP emission limitation calculated in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv), as applicable.
(b) Each owner or operator of a back-end process operation using stripping technology to comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), and demonstrating compliance using the periodic sampling procedures in § 63.495(b), shall maintain the records specified in paragraph (b)(1), and in paragraph (b)(2) or paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) Records associated with each sample taken in accordance with § 63.495(b). These records shall include the following for each sample:
(i) Elastomer type,
(ii) The date and time the sample was collected,
(iii) The corresponding quantity of elastomer processed over the time period represented by the sample. Acceptable methods of determining this quantity are production records, measurement of stream characteristics, and engineering calculations.
(A) For emulsion processes, this quantity shall be the weight of the latex leaving the stripper.
(B) For solution processes, this quantity shall be the crumb rubber dry weight of the rubber leaving the stripper.
(iv) The organic HAP content of each sample.
(2) The monthly weighted average organic HAP content, calculated in accordance with § 63.495(f).
(3) If the organic HAP contents for all samples analyzed during a month are below the appropriate level in § 63.494(a), the owner or operator may record that all samples were in accordance with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), rather than calculating and recording a monthly weighted average.
(c) Each owner or operator of a back-end process operation using stripping technology to comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), and demonstrating compliance using the stripper parameter monitoring procedures in § 63.495(c), shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Records associated with the initial, and subsequent, determinations of the organic HAP content of each grade of elastomer produced. These records shall include the following:
(i) An identification of the elastomer type and grade;
(ii) The results of the residual organic HAP analyses, conducted in accordance with § 63.505(e)(1);
(iii) The stripper monitoring parameters required to be established in § 63.495(c)(1).
(iv) If re-determinations are made of the organic HAP content, and re-establishment of the stripper monitoring parameters, records of the initial determination are no longer required to be maintained.
(2) Records associated with each grade or batch. These records shall include the following for each grade or batch:
(i) Elastomer type and grade;
(ii) The quantity of elastomer processed;
(A) For emulsion processes, this quantity shall be the weight of the latex leaving the stripper.
(B) For solution processes, this quantity shall be the crumb rubber dry weight of the crumb rubber leaving the stripper.
(iii) The hourly average of all stripper parameter results;
(iv) If one or more hourly average stripper monitoring parameters is not in accordance with the established levels, the results of the residual organic HAP analysis.
(3) The monthly weighted average organic HAP content, calculated in accordance with § 63.495(f).
(d) Each owner or operator of a back-end process operation using control or recovery devices to comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. The recordkeeping requirements contained in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) pertain to the results of the testing required by § 63.496(b), for each of the three required test runs.
(1) The uncontrolled residual organic HAP content in the latex or dry crumb rubber, as required to be determined by § 63.496(b)(3), including the test results of the analysis;
(2) The total quantity of material (weight of latex or dry crumb rubber) processed during the test run, recorded in accordance with § 63.496(b)(4);
(3) The organic HAP emissions at the inlet and outlet of the control or recovery device, determined in accordance with § 63.496(b)(5) through (8), including all test results and calculations.
(4) The residual organic HAP content, adjusted for the control or recovery device emission reduction, determined in accordance with § 63.496(c)(1).
(5) Each owner or operator using a control or recovery device shall keep the following records readily accessible:
(i) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.497(a) or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.497(b). For flares, the records specified in § 63.508, if applicable, and table 3 to subpart G of this part shall be maintained in place of continuous records.
(ii) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(D) through (d)(5)(ii)(F) of this section.
(A) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day, except as provided in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or
the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.
(B) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments, shall not be included in computing the hourly or daily averages. In addition, monitoring data recorded during periods of non-operation of the EPPU (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of organic HAP emissions, shall not be included in computing the hourly or daily averages. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods of process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.
(C) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.506(e)(5) or (8). It may be from midnight to midnight or another 24-hour period.
(D) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are below the maximum, or above the minimum, level established in the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.506(e)(5) or in the operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were below the maximum or above the minimum level, rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day.
(E) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(F) of this section, for flares, records of the times and duration of all periods during which the pilot flame is absent, shall be kept rather than daily averages. The records specified in this paragraph are not required during periods when emissions are not routed to the flare.
(F) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(E) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must keep the records specified in § 63.108(m) of subpart F of this part and § 63.508.
(iii) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section, hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under § 63.497(d)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.
(iv) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section, where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.497(d)(2), hourly records of flow are not required.
(A) For compliance with § 63.497(d)(2), the owner or operator shall record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done, and shall record instances when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.
(B) [Reserved]
(v) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.127(d) of subpart G of this part for each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), the owner or operator must also maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, the owner or operator must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.
(e) If the back-end process operation is subject to an organic HAP emission limitation in § 63.494(a)(4), the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The applicable organic HAP emission limitation determined in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv).
(2) The organic HAP emissions from all back-end process operations for each month, along with documentation of all calculations and other information used in the engineering assessment to estimate these emissions.
(3) The mass of elastomer product produced each month.
(4) The total mass of organic HAP emitted for each 12-month period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the 12-month period, determined in accordance with § 63.495(g)(5).
(f) Owners and operators subject to § 63.494(a)(7), must keep the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.
(1) For back-end process vents in chloroprene service, include all uncontrolled, undiluted chloroprene concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled chloroprene mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.
(2) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38068, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22591, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43252, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.499
Back-end process provisions—reporting.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected source with back-end process operations shall submit the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, for each back-end process operation at the affected source, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5).
(1) The type of elastomer product processed in the back-end operation.
(2) The type of process (solution process, emulsion process, etc.)
(3) If the back-end process operation is subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), whether compliance will be achieved by stripping technology, or by control or recovery devices.
(b) Each owner or operator of a back-end process operation using stripping to comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) As part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.498(c)(1).
(2) For organic HAP content/stripper monitoring parameter re-determinations, and the addition of new grades, the information specified in § 63.498(c)(1) shall be submitted in the next periodic report specified in § 63.506(e)(6).
(c) Each owner or operator of an affected source with a back-end process operation control or recovery device that shall comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5).
(1) The residual organic HAP content, adjusted for the control or recovery device emission reduction, determined in accordance with § 63.496(c)(1), for each test run in the compliance determination.
(2) The operating parameter level established in accordance with § 63.497(c), along with supporting documentation.
(3) The information specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) when using a flare, and the information specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section when using a boiler or process heater.
(i) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent.
(ii) A description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater.
(d) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.496(d), is made that causes the redetermination of the compliance
status for the back-end process operations subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change, as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(iii). The report shall include:
(1) A description of the process change;
(2) The results of the redetermination of the compliance status, determined in accordance with § 63.496(b), and recorded in accordance with § 63.498(d)(1), and
(3) Documentation of the re-establishment of a parameter level for the control or recovery device, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter, that indicates proper operation of the control or recovery device, in accordance with § 63.497(c) and recorded in accordance with § 63.498(d)(2).
(e) If an owner or operator uses a control or recovery device other than those listed in § 63.497(a) or requests approval to monitor a parameter other than those specified in § 63.497(a), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures as required under § 63.506(e)(3) or (e)(8). The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the Precompliance Report or Operating Permit application.
(f) If the back-end process operation is subject to an organic HAP emission limitation in § 63.494(a)(4), the owner and operator must submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The applicable organic HAP emission limitation determined in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv), shall be submitted no later than 180 days from the date of publication of the final rule amendments in the
Federal Register.
(2) Beginning with the first periodic report required to be submitted by § 63.506(e)(6) that is at least 13 months after the compliance date, the total mass of organic HAP emitted for each of the rolling 12-month periods in the reporting period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the corresponding 12-month period, determined in accordance with § 63.495(g)(5).
(g) Owners and operators subject to § 63.494(a)(7), must include in the periodic report, the records for the periods specified in § 63.498(f)(2). Indicate the start date, start time and duration in hours for each period.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38068, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43253, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.500
Back-end process provisions—carbon disulfide limitations for styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion processes.
(a) Owners or operators of sources subject to this subpart producing styrene butadiene rubber using an emulsion process shall operate the process such that the carbon disulfide concentration in each crumb dryer exhausts shall not exceed 45 ppmv.
(1) The owner or operator shall develop standard operating procedures for the addition of sulfur containing shortstop agents to ensure that the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section is maintained. There shall be a standard operating procedure representing the production of every grade of styrene butadiene rubber produced at the affected source using a sulfur containing shortstop agent.
(2) A validation of each standard operating procedure shall be conducted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, to demonstrate compliance with the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) The owner or operator shall operate the process in accordance with a validated standard operating procedure at all times when styrene butadiene rubber is being produced using a sulfur containing shortstop agent. If a standard operating procedure is changed, it shall be re-validated.
(4) Records specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall be maintained.
(5) Reports shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Crumb dryers that are vented to a combustion device are not subject to the provisions in this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall validate each standard operating procedure
to determine compliance with the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section using the testing procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator may choose to conduct a performance test, using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the carbon disulfide concentration limitation in paragraph (a) of this section. One test shall be conducted for each standard operating procedure.
(i) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as required, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites.
(ii) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as required.
(iii) To determine compliance with the carbon disulfide concentration limit in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively to measure carbon disulfide. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part, may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate carbon disulfide concentration:
(A) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour, in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.
(B) The concentration of carbon disulfide shall be calculated using Equation 32.
ER05SE96.030
where:
C
CS2
= Concentration of carbon disulfide, dry basis, ppmv.
C
CS2i
= Concentration of carbon disulfide of sample i, dry basis, ppmv.
n = Number of samples in the sample run.
(2) The owner or operator may use engineering assessment to demonstrate compliance with the carbon disulfide concentration limitation in paragraph (a) of this section. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.
(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.
(iii) Flow rate and/or carbon disulfide emission rate specified or implied within an applicable permit limit.
(iv) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(A) Use of material balances,
(B) Estimation of flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities, and
(C) Estimation of carbon disulfide concentrations based on saturation conditions.
(v) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented.
(d) Owners and operators of sources subject to this section shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(1) Documentation of the results of the testing required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) A description of the standard operating procedure used during the testing. This description shall include, at a minimum, an identification of the sulfur containing shortstop agent added to the styrene butadiene rubber prior to the dryers, an identification of the point and time in the process where the
sulfur containing shortstop agent is added, and an identification of the amount of sulfur containing shortstop agent added per unit of latex.
(e) Owners and operators shall submit the reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
(1) As part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5), documentation of the results of the testing required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If changes are made in the standard operating procedure used during the compliance test and recorded in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and if those changes have the potential for increasing the concentration of carbon disulfide in the crumb dryer exhaust to above the 45 ppmv limit, the owner or operator shall:
(i) Redetermine compliance using the test procedures in paragraph (c) of this section, and
(ii) Submit documentation of the testing results in the next periodic report required by § 63.506(e)(6).
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38068, June 19, 2000; 89 FR 43253, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.501
Wastewater provisions.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.147 for each process wastewater stream originating at an affected source, with the requirements of § 63.148 for leak inspection provisions, and with the requirements of § 63.149 for equipment that is subject to § 63.149, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (23) of this section. Further, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.105(a) for maintenance wastewater, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(2) When the storage vessel requirements contained in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are applicable, with the exception of the differences referred to in § 63.484, for the purposes of this subpart.
(3) Owners and operators of affected sources are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.132(b)(1) and § 63.132(d). Owners and operators of new affected sources, as defined in this subpart, shall comply with the requirements for existing sources in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(10), and (a)(23) of this section.
(4) When § 63.146(a) requires the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), owners or operators requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.506(f), for the purposes of this subpart.
(5) When § 63.147(d) requires owners or operators to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), owners and operators shall instead keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter as specified in § 63.506(d), for the purposes of this subpart.
(6) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to an “existing source,” the term “existing affected source,” as defined in § 63.480(a)(3) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(7) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a “new source,” the term “new affected source,” as defined in § 63.480(a)(4) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(8) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a “chemical manufacturing process unit,” the term “elastomer product process unit,” (or EPPU) as defined in § 63.482, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when § 63.149 refers to “a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b) of subpart F of this part,” the term “an EPPU as defined in § 63.482(b)” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(9) When § 63.132(a) and (b) refer to the “applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part,” the compliance dates specified in § 63.481
shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(10) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (iv) of this section clarify the organic HAP that an owner or operator must consider when complying with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.149.
(i) Owners and operators are exempt from all requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149 that pertain solely and exclusively to organic HAP listed on table 8 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.
(ii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to table 9 compounds, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.
(iii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to compounds in table 36 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or compounds in List 1 and/or List 2, as listed in table 36 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 36 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.
(iv) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), the provisions specified in § 63.132(c)(1)(iii) do not apply. Instead, if the wastewater stream contains chloroprene such that it is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the wastewater stream is a Group 1 wastewater stream. For wastewater streams in chloroprene service, owners and operators must also meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.
(11) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.147 refer to a Group 1 wastewater stream or a Group 2 wastewater stream, the definitions of these terms contained in § 63.482 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(12) When § 63.149(d) refers to “§ 63.100(f) of subpart F” the phrase “§ 63.480(c)” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, where § 63.149(d) states “and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subparts A, F, G, or H of this part”, the phrase “and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subparts A, F, G, H, or U of this part,” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(13) When § 63.149(e)(1) and (e)(2) refer to “a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to the new source requirements of 40 CFR 63.100(l)(1) or 40 CFR 63.100 (l)(2),” the phrase “an EPPU that is part of a new affected source or that is a new affected source,” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(14) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.138 and 63.146, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when §§ 63.138 and 63.146 require that information be reported according to § 63.152(b) in the Notification of Compliance Status, owners or operators of affected sources shall report the specified information in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5), for the purposes of this subpart.
(15) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in § 63.146, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when § 63.146 requires that information be reported in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.152(c), owners or operators of affected sources shall report the specified information in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.506(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.
(16) When the term “range” is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, the term “level” shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. This level shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.505.
(17) When § 63.143(f) specifies that owners or operators shall establish the range that indicates proper operation of the treatment process or control device, the owner or operator shall instead comply with the requirements of § 63.505(c) or (d) for establishing parameter level maximums/minimums, for the purposes of this subpart.
(18) When § 63.146(b)(7) and § 63.146(b)(8) require that “the information on parameter ranges specified in
§ 63.152(b)(2)” be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, owners and operators of affected sources are instead required to report the information on parameter levels in the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.506(e)(5)(ii), for the purposes of this subpart.
(19) For the purposes of this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source is not required to include process wastewater streams that contain styrene when conducting performance tests for the purposes of calculating the required mass removal (RMR) or the actual mass removal (AMR) under the provisions described in § 63.145(f) or § 63.145(g). For purposes of this paragraph, a process wastewater stream is considered to contain styrene if the wastewater stream meets the requirements in paragraph (a)(19)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section:
(i) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene rubber by solution;
(ii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion; or
(iii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene latex.
(20) When the provisions of § 63.139(c)(1)(ii), § 63.145(d)(4), or § 63.145(i)(2) specify that Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used, Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(20)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(ii) The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(21) In § 63.145(j), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), and instead of § 63.145(j)(1) and § 63.145(j)(2), the requirements in § 63.504(c) shall apply.
(22) The owner or operator of a facility which receives a Group 1 wastewater stream, or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) is subject to the requirements of § 63.132(g) with the differences identified in this section, and is not subject to subpart DD of this part, with respect to the received material.
(23) When § 63.132(g) refers to “§§ 63.133 through 63.137” or “§§ 63.133 through 63.147”, the provisions in this § 63.501 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(b) Except for those streams exempted by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements for maintenance wastewater in § 63.105, except that when § 63.105(a) refers to “organic HAPs listed in table 9 to subpart G of this part,” the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 9 to subpart G of this part, for the purposes of this subpart.
(c) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the following:
(1) Back-end streams originating from equipment whose only elastomer products are latex products.
(2) Back-end streams at affected sources that are subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) and that are complying with these limitations through the use of stripping technology.
(d) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, on and after July 15, 2027,” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027,”.
(e) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n),” for each
occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.
(f) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38069, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36828, July 16, 2001; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43254, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.502
Equipment leak, fenceline monitoring, and heat exchange system provisions.
(a) The owner or operator of each affected source, shall comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7), and (b) through (m) of this section. Except as specified in § 63.170(b), surge control vessels required to be controlled by subpart H may, alternatively, comply with the Group 1 storage vessel provisions specified in § 63.484.
(1) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, on and after July 15, 2027,” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, on and after July 15, 2027,”.
(2) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.
(3) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11),”.
(4) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(p),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(12),”.
(5) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.
(6) Substitute “in chloroprene service” for each occurrence of “in ethylene oxide service”.
(7) If an affected source uses, produces, stores, or emits chloroprene, the action level for chloroprene in § 63.184(d)(3) is 0.3 µg/m
3
on an annual average basis for the purposes of this subpart. Additionally, the sampling period Δc in § 63.184(e)(4)(iii) and (f)(1)(iii) is 0.3 µg/m
3
instead of 0.8 µg/m
3
for the purposes of this subpart.
(b) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section are exempt from the requirements contained in § 63.170.
(1) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only styrene-butadiene latex;
(2) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive latex products other than styrene-butadiene latex, located downstream of the stripping operations;
(3) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only high conversion latex products;
(4) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers located downstream of the stripping operations at affected sources subject to the back-end residual organic HAP limitation located in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) that are complying through the use of stripping technology, as specified in § 63.495;
(5) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only styrene;
(6) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only acrylamide; and
(7) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only epichlorohydrin.
(c) The compliance date for the equipment leak provisions in this section is provided in § 63.481(d). Whenever subpart H of this part refers to the compliance dates specified in any paragraph contained in § 63.100, the compliance dates listed in § 63.481(d) shall instead apply, for the purposes of this subpart. When § 63.182(c)(4) refers to “sources subject to subpart F,” the phrase “sources subject to this subpart” shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, extensions of
compliance dates are addressed by § 63.481(e) instead of by § 63.182(a)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.
(d) For an affected source producing polybutadiene rubber or styrene butadiene rubber by solution, the conditions in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section are applicable.
(1) Indications of liquids dripping, as defined in subpart H of this part, from bleed ports in pumps and agitator seals in light liquid service, shall not be considered a leak. For the purposes of this subpart, a “bleed port” is a technologically-required feature of the pump or seal whereby polymer fluid used to provide lubrication and/or cooling of the pump or agitator shaft exits the pump, thereby resulting in a visible dripping of fluid.
(2) For reciprocating pumps in heavy liquid service, owners and operators are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.169 and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(3) Reciprocating pumps in light liquid service are exempt from § 63.163 and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements, if recasting the distance piece or reciprocating pump replacement would be necessary to comply with that section.
(e) Owners and operators of an affected source subject to this subpart are not required to submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.182(a)(1) and § 63.182(b).
(f) As specified in § 63.506(e)(5), the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.182(a)(2) and § 63.182(c) shall be submitted within 150 days (rather than 90 days) of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.481(d) for the equipment leak provisions.
(g) The information specified by § 63.182(a)(3) and § 63.182(d) (i.e., Periodic Reports) shall be submitted as part of the Periodic Reports required by § 63.506(e)(6).
(h) If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any EPPU within the affected source for all purposes under subpart H of this part, providing there is no delay in achieving the applicable compliance date.
(i) When § 63.166(b)(4)(i) refers to Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 9 of subpart G of this subpart that are also listed on Table 5 of this subpart.
(j) When the provisions of subpart H of this part specify that Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used, either Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of emissions.
(2) The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(k)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, an owner or operator using a flare to comply with the requirements of this section shall conduct a compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.504(c).
(2) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (k)(1) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(l) When the term “equipment” is used in subpart H of this part, the definition of this term in § 63.482(b) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(m) The phrase “the provisions of subparts F, I, or U of this part” shall apply instead of the phrase “the provisions of subpart F or I of this part” throughout §§ 63.163 and 63.168, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the phrase “subparts F, I, and U” shall apply instead of the phrase “subparts F and I” in § 63.174(c)(2)(iii), for the purposes of this subpart.
(n) The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (n)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “elastomer product process unit” (or EPPU) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart, with the exception noted in paragraph (n)(2) of this section.
(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an EPPU, except for EPPUs meeting the condition specified in § 63.480(b)” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a) of subpart F of this part, the term “an EPPU” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.
(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 to subpart F of this part or table 9 to subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on table 5 to this subpart.
(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in § 63.506(a) and § 63.506(h) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.506(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.
(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.481(d)(6).
(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.
(8) § 63.104(k) of subpart F of this part does not apply. Instead for each source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), owners and operators must not inject water into or dispose of water through any heat exchange system in an EPPU if the water contains any amount of chloroprene, has been in contact with any process stream containing chloroprene, or the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.482.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 37722, July 15, 1997; 65 FR 38070, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43254, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.503
Emissions averaging provisions.
(a) This section applies to owners or operators of existing affected sources who seek to comply with § 63.483(b) by using emissions averaging rather than following the provisions of §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.486, 63.494, and 63.501.
(1) The following emission point limitations apply to the use of these provisions:
(i) All emission points included in an emissions average shall be from the same affected source. There may be an emissions average for each individual affected source located at a plant site.
(ii)(A) If a plant site has only one affected source for which emissions averaging is being used to demonstrate compliance, the number of emission points allowed to be included in the emission average is limited to twenty. This number may be increased by up to five additional points if pollution prevention measures are used to control five or more of the emission points included in the emissions average.
(B) If a plant site has two or more affected sources for which emissions
averaging is being used to demonstrate compliance, the number of emission points allowed in the emissions average for those affected sources is limited to twenty. This number may be increased by up to five additional emission points if pollution prevention measures are used to control five or more of the emission points included in the emissions averages.
(2) Compliance with the provisions of this section may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.
(3) For the purposes of the provisions in this section, whenever Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 is specified within the paragraphs of this section or is specified by reference through provisions outside this section, Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, may be used. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A, must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25Aof appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(ii) The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(b) Unless an operating permit application has been submitted, the owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Emissions Averaging Plan containing all of the information required in § 63.506(e)(4) for all emission points to be included in an emissions average.
(c) Paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section describe the emission points that may be used to generate emissions averaging credits if control was applied after November 15, 1990 and if sufficient information is available to determine the appropriate value of credits for the emission point. Paragraph (c)(5) of this section discusses the use of pollution prevention in generating emissions averaging credits.
(1) Storage vessels, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, continuous front-end process vents, and process wastewater streams that are determined to be Group 2 emission points.
(2) Storage vessels, continuous front-end process vents, and process wastewater steams that are determined to be Group 1 emission points and that are controlled by a technology that the Administrator or permitting authority agrees has a higher nominal efficiency than the reference control technology. Information on the nominal efficiencies for such technologies shall be submitted and approved as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(3) Batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams that are determined to be Group 1 emission points and that are controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard.
(4) Back-end process operations that are controlled such that organic HAP emissions from the back-end process operation are less than would be achieved by meeting the residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494. For the purposes of the emission averaging provisions in this section, all back-end process operations at an affected facility shall be considered a single emission point.
(5) The percent reduction for any storage vessel, batch front-end process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous front-end process vent, and process wastewater stream shall be determined using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(i) For a Group 1 storage vessel, batch front-end process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous front-end process vent, or process wastewater stream, the pollution prevention measure shall reduce emissions more than if the reference control technology or standard had been applied to
the emission point instead of the pollution prevention measure, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If a pollution prevention measure is used in conjunction with other controls for a Group 1 storage vessel, batch front-end process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous front-end process vent, or process wastewater stream, the pollution prevention measure alone does not have to reduce emissions more than the reference control technology or standard, but the combination of the pollution prevention measure and other controls shall reduce emissions more than if the applicable reference control technology or standard had been applied instead of the pollution prevention measure.
(d) The following emission points cannot be used to generate emissions averaging credits:
(1) Emission points already controlled on or before November 15, 1990 cannot be used to generate credits unless the level of control was increased after November 15, 1990. In this case, credit will be allowed only for the increase in control after November 15, 1990.
(2) Group 1 emission points, identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that are controlled by a reference control technology cannot be used to generate credits unless the reference control technology has been approved for use in a different manner and a higher nominal efficiency has been assigned according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(3) Emission points on nonoperating EPPU cannot be used to generate credits. EPPU that are shutdown cannot be used to generate credits or debits.
(4) Maintenance wastewater cannot be used to generate credits. Wastewater streams treated in biological treatment units cannot be used to generate credits. These two types of wastewater cannot be used to generate credits or debits. For the purposes of this section, the terms wastewater and wastewater stream are used to mean process wastewater.
(5) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart cannot be used to generate credits, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990 to a level above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the emission point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the emission point may continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved emissions average.
(e) For all emission points included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform the following tasks:
(1) Calculate and record monthly debits for all Group 1 emission points that are controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology or standard for those emission points. The Group 1 emission points are identified in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section. Equations in paragraph (g) of this section shall be used to calculate debits.
(2) Calculate and record monthly credits for all Group 1 and Group 2 emission points that are overcontrolled to compensate for the debits. Equations in paragraph (h) of this section shall be used to calculate credits. Emission points and controls that meet the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section may be included in the credit calculation, whereas those described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not be included.
(3) Demonstrate that annual credits calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section are greater than or equal to debits calculated for the same annual compliance period according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator may choose to include more than the required number of credit-generating emission points in an emissions average in order to increase the likelihood of being in compliance.
(ii) The initial demonstration in the Emissions Averaging Plan or operating permit application that credit-generating emission points will be capable of generating sufficient credits to offset
the debits from the debit-generating emission points shall be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, actual operating data shall be used for all debit and credit calculations.
(4) Demonstrate that debits calculated for a quarterly (3-month) period according to paragraph (g) of this section are not more than 1.30 times the credits for the same period calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section. Compliance for the quarter shall be determined based on the ratio of credits and debits from that quarter, with 30 percent more debits than credits allowed on a quarterly basis.
(5) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.506(e)(6). Every fourth Periodic Report shall include a certification of compliance with the emissions averaging provisions as required by § 63.506(e)(6)(x)(C)(
2
).
(f) Debits and credits shall be calculated in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively, and shall not include emissions during the following periods:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Emissions during periods of monitoring excursions, as defined in § 63.505 (g) or (h). For these periods, the calculation of monthly credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (f)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) No credits would be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.
(ii) Maximum debits would be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.
(iii) The owner or operator may demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned using the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section.
(g) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology or standard and the emissions allowed for the Group 1 emission point. Debits shall be calculated as follows:
(1) Source-wide debits shall be calculated using Equation 33. Debits and all terms of the equation are in units of megagrams per month (Mg/month):
ER09MR99.005
Where:
ECFEPV
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology. ECFEPV
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section.
(0.02)ECFEPV
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i if the applicable reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. ECFEPV
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
ES
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 storage vessel i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology or standard. ES
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(0.05)ES
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 storage vessel i if the applicable reference control technology or standard had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. ES
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
EBEP
ACTUAL
= Emissions from back-end process operations that do not meet the residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494. EBEP
ACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.
EBEP
c
= Emissions from back-end process operations if the residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494(a) were met. EBEP
c
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section.
EWW
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 wastewater stream i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology. EWW
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
EWW
ic
= Emissions from each Group 1 wastewater stream i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. EWW
ic
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
EBFEPV
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 batch front-end process vent stream i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable standard. EBFEPV
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section.
(0.1) EBFEPV
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 batch front-end process vent i if the applicable standard had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. EBFEPV
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section.
EABV
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable standard. EABV
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(7)(iii) of this section.
(0.1) EABV
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream i if the applicable standard had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. EABV
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
n = The number of emission points being included in the emissions average.
(2) Emissions from continuous front-end process vents shall be calculated as follows:
(i) For purposes of determining continuous front-end process vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be after the final product recovery device, if any recovery devices are present; before any control device (for continuous front-end process vents, recovery devices shall not be considered control devices); and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.
(ii) ECFEPV
iu
for each continuous front-end process vent i shall be calculated using equation 34.
ER16MY24.065
Where:
ECFEPV
iu
= Uncontrolled continuous front-end process vent emission rate from continuous front-end process vent i, Mg/month.
Q = Vent stream flow rate, dry standard m
3
/min, measured using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.
h = Monthly hours of operation during which positive flow is present in the continuous front-end process vent, hr/month.
C
j
= Concentration, ppmv, dry basis, of organic HAP j as measured by Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
M
j
= Molecular weight of organic HAP j, gram per gram-mole.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream.
(A) The values of Q and C
j
shall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q and C
j
shall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and shall be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q and C
j
are no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new
representative values of Q and C
j
. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.
(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate ECFEPV
iACTUAL
:
(A) If the continuous front-end process vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, ECFEPV
iACTUAL
= ECFEPV
iu
, where ECFEPV
iu
is calculated according to the procedures contained in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(B) If the continuous front-end process vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 98-percent reduction, ECFEPV
iACTUAL
is calculated using Equation 35.
ER05SE96.033
Where:
ECFEPV
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology.
ECFEPV
iu
= Uncontrolled continuous front-end process vent emission rate from continuous front-end process vent i, Mg/month.
(
1
) The percent reduction shall be measured according to the procedures in § 63.116 if a combustion control device is used. For a flare meeting the criteria in § 63.116(a), or a boiler or process heater meeting the criteria in § 63.116(b), the percent reduction shall be 98 percent. If a noncombustion control device is used, percent reduction shall be demonstrated by a performance test at the inlet and outlet of the device, or, if testing is not feasible, by a control design evaluation and documented engineering calculations.
(
2
) For determining debits from Group 1 continuous front-end process vents, product recovery devices shall not be considered control devices and shall not be assigned a percent reduction in calculating ECFEPV
iACTUAL.
The sampling site for measurement of uncontrolled emissions shall be after the final uncontrolled recovery device. However, as provided in § 63.113(a)(3), a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent may add sufficient product recovery to raise the TRE index value above 1.0, thereby becoming a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent. Such a continuous front-end process vent is not a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent and should, therefore, not be included in determining debits under this paragraph, except as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
4
) of this section.
(
3
) Procedures for calculating the percent reduction of pollution prevention measures are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(
4
) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), that last two sentences of paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section no longer apply.
(3) Emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(g)(3).
(4) Emissions from back-end process operations shall be calculated as follows:
(i) Equation 36 shall be used to calculate EBEP
ACTUAL
:
ER05SE96.034
where:
EBEP
ACTUAL
= Actual emissions from back-end process operations, Mg/month.
C
i
= Residual organic HAP content of sample i, kg organic HAP per Mg latex or dry crumb rubber.
P
i
= Weight of latex or dry crumb rubber leaving the stripper represented by sample i, Mg.
(ii) Equation 37 shall be used to calculate EBEP
c
:
ER05SE96.051
where:
EBEP
c
= Emissions from back-end process operations if the residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494(a) were met, Mg/month.
HAP
limit
= Residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494 of this subpart, kg organic HAP per Mg latex or dry crumb rubber.
P
month
= Weight of latex or dry crumb rubber leaving the stripper in the month, Mg.
(5) Emissions from wastewater shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(g)(5).
(6) Emissions from batch front-end process vents shall be calculated as follows:
(i) EBFEPV
iu
for each batch front-end process vent i shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
(ii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to determine EBFEPV
iACTUAL
:
(A) If the batch front-end process vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EBFEPV
iACTUAL
= EBFEPV
iu
, where EBFEPV
iu
is calculated according to the procedures in § 63.488(b).
(B) If the batch front-end process vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 90 percent reduction for the batch cycle, calculate EBFEPV
iACTUAL
using Equation 38, where percent reduction is for the batch cycle.
ER05SE96.035
(
1
) The percent reduction for the batch cycle shall be measured according to the procedures in § 63.490(c)(2).
(
2
) The percent reduction for control devices shall be calculated according to the procedures in § 63.490 (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii).
(
3
) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(7) Emissions from aggregate batch vents shall be calculated as follows:
(i) For purposes of determining aggregate batch vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be before any control device and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.
(ii) EABV
iu
for each aggregate batch vent i shall be calculated using equation 39.
ER16MY24.066
Where:
EABV
iu
= Uncontrolled aggregate batch vent emission rate from aggregate batch vent i, Mg/month.
Q = Vent stream flow rate, dry standard cubic meters per minute, measured using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.
h = Monthly hours of operation during which positive flow is present from the aggregate batch vent stream, hr/month.
C
j
= Concentration, ppmv, dry basis, of organic HAP j as measured by Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
M
j
= Molecular weight of organic HAP j, gram per gram-mole.
n = Number of organic HAP in the stream.
(A) The values of Q and C
j
shall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q and C
j
shall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and shall be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(7)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q and C
j
are no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q and C
j
. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.
(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate EABV
iACTUAL
:
(A) If the aggregate batch vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EABV
iACTUAL
= EABV
iu
, where EABV
iu
is calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
(B) If the aggregate batch vent stream is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 90 percent reduction, calculate EABV
iACTUAL
using Equation 40.
ER05SE96.037
(
1
) The percent reduction for control devices shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.490(e).
(
2
) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated according to the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(h) Credits are generated by the difference between emissions that are allowed for each Group 1 and Group 2 emission point and the actual emissions from that Group 1 or Group 2 emission point that has been controlled after November 15, 1990 to a level more stringent than what is required by this subpart or any other State or Federal rule or statute. Credits shall be calculated as follows:
(1) Source-wide credits shall be calculated using Equation 41. Credits and all terms of the equation are in units of Mg/month, and the baseline date is November 15, 1990:
ER19JN00.022
Where:
D = Discount factor = 0.9 for all credit generating emission points, except those controlled by a pollution prevention measure; discount factor = 1.0 for each credit generating emission point controlled by a pollution prevention measure (i.e., no discount provided).
ECFEPV1
iACTUAL
= Emissions for each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology. ECFEPV1
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section.
(0.02)ECFEPV1
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. ECFEPV1
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.
ECFEPV2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous front-end process vent i that is controlled. ECFEPV2
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section.
ECFEPV2
iBASE
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous front-end process vent i at the baseline date. ECFEPV2
iBASE
is calculated in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.
ES1
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 storage vessel i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology or standard. ES1
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(0.05) ES1
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 storage vessel i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. ES1
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
ES2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 storage vessel i that is controlled. ES2
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
ES2
iBASE
= Emissions from each Group 2 storage vessel i at the baseline date. ES2
iBASE
is calculated in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
EBEP
ACTUAL
= Actual emissions from back-end process operations, Mg/month. EBEP
ACTUAL
is calculated in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section.
EBEP
c
= Emissions from back-end process operations if the residual organic HAP limits in § 63.494(a) were met, Mg/month. EBEP
c
is calculated in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section.
EWW1
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 wastewater stream i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology. EWW1
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
EWW1
ic
= Emissions from each Group 1 wastewater stream i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. EWW1
ic
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
EWW2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 wastewater stream i that is controlled. EWW2
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
EWW2
iBASE
= Emissions from each Group 2 wastewater stream i at the baseline date. EWW2
iBASE
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(0.1) EBFEPV1
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 batch front-end process vent i if the applicable standard had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions. EBFEPV1
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section.
EBFEPV1
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 batch front-end process vent i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard. EBFEPV1
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(6)(ii) of this section.
(0.1)EABV1
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream i if the applicable standard had been applied to the
uncontrolled emissions. EABV1
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section.
EABV1
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard. EABV1
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(7)(ii) of this section.
EBFEPV2
iBASE
= Emissions from each Group 2 batch front-end process vent i at the baseline date. EBFEPV2
iBASE
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(6)(iv) of this section.
EBFEPV2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 batch front-end process vent i that is controlled. EBFEPV2
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section.
EABV2
iBASE
= Emissions from each Group 2 aggregate batch vent stream i at the baseline date. EABV2
iBASE
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(7)(iv) of this section.
EABV2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 aggregate batch vent stream i that is controlled. EABV2
iACTUAL
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(7)(iii) of this section.
n = Number of Group 1 emission points included in the emissions average. The value of n is not necessarily the same for continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, storage vessels, wastewater streams, or the collection of process sections within the affected source.
m = Number of Group 2 emission points included in the emissions average. The value of m is not necessarily the same for continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, storage vessels, wastewater streams, or the collection of process sections within the affected source.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(iv) of this section, for an emission point controlled using a reference control technology, the percent reduction for calculating credits shall be no greater than the nominal efficiency associated with the reference control technology, unless a higher nominal efficiency is assigned as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) For an emission point controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be assigned as described in paragraph (i) of this section. A reference control technology may be approved for use in a different manner and assigned a higher nominal efficiency according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section. A reference control technology may be approved for use in a different manner and assigned a higher nominal efficiency according to the procedure in paragraph (i) of this section.
(iii) For an emission point controlled using a pollution prevention measure, except for back-end process operation emissions, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be as determined as described in paragraph (j) of this section. Emissions for back-end process operations shall be determined as described in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
(iv) For Group 1 and Group 2 batch front-end process vents and Group 1 and Group 2 aggregate batch vent streams, the percent reduction for calculating credits shall be the percent reduction determined according to the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii) and (h)(6)(iii) of this section for batch front-end process vents and paragraphs (h)(7)(ii) and (h)(7)(iii) of this section for aggregate batch vent streams.
(2) Emissions from continuous front-end process vents shall be determined as follows:
(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 continuous front-end process vents, ECFEPV1
iu
, shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for ECFEPV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 continuous front-end process vents controlled using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent emission reduction, ECFEPV1
iACTUAL
, shall be calculated using Equation 42.
ER05SE96.039
Where:
ECFEPV1
iACTUAL
= Emissions for each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i that is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology.
ECFEPV1
iu
= Emissions from each Group 1 continuous front-end process vent i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions.
(iii) The following procedures shall be used to calculate actual emissions from Group 2 continuous front-end process vents, ECFEPV2
iACTUAL
:
(A) For a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent controlled by a control device, a recovery device applied as a pollution prevention project, or a pollution prevention measure, where the control achieves a percent reduction less than or equal to 98 percent reduction, Equation 43 shall be used.
ER05SE96.040
Where:
ECFEPV2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous
front-end process vent i that is controlled.
ECFEPV2
iu
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous front-end process vent i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions.
(
1
) ECFEPV2
iu
shall be calculated according to the equations and procedures for ECFEPV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
) of this section.
(
2
) The percent reduction shall be calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
) through (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
3
) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)(
4
) of this section.
(
3
) If a recovery device was added as part of a pollution prevention project, ECFEPV2
iu
shall be calculated prior to that recovery device. The equation for ECFEPV
iu
in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section shall be used to calculate ECFEPV2
iu
; however, the sampling site for measurement of vent stream flow rate and organic HAP concentration shall be at the inlet of the recovery device.
(
4
) If a recovery device was added as part of a pollution prevention project, the percent reduction shall be demonstrated by conducting a performance test at the inlet and outlet of that recovery device.
(B) For a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent controlled using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent reduction, Equation 44 shall be used.
ER05SE96.041
Where:
ECFEPV2
iACTUAL
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous
front-end process vent i that is controlled.
ECFEPV2
iu
= Emissions from each Group 2 continuous front-end process vent i if the reference control technology had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions.
(iv) Emissions from Group 2 continuous front-end process vents at baseline, ECFEPV2
iBASE
, shall be calculated as follows:
(A) If the continuous front-end process vent was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, ECFEPV2
iBASE
= ECFEPV2
iu
and shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for ECFEPV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(B) If the continuous front-end process vent was controlled on November 15, 1990, Equation 45 shall be used.
ER05SE96.042
(
1
) ECFEPV2
iu
is calculated according to the procedures and equation for ECFEPV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(
2
) The percent reduction shall be calculated according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
) through (g)(2)(iii)(B)(
3
) of this section.
(C) If a recovery device was added as part of a pollution prevention project initiated after November 15, 1990, ECFEPV2
iBASE
= ECFEPV2
iu
, where ECFEPV2
iu
is calculated according to paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
) of this section.
(3) Emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(h)(3).
(4) Emissions from back-end process operations shall be calculated as follows:
(i) EBEP
ACTUAL
shall be calculated according to the equation for EBEP
ACTUAL
contained in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.
(ii) EBEP
c
shall be calculated according to the equation for EBEP
c
contained in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section.
(5) Emissions from wastewater streams shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(h)(5).
(6) Emissions from batch front-end process vents shall be determined as follows:
(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 batch front-end process vents (EBFEPV1
iu
) shall be calculated according using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 batch front-end process vents controlled to a level more stringent than the standard (EBFEPV1
iACTUAL
) shall be calculated using Equation 46, where percent reduction is for the batch cycle:
ER05SE96.043
(A) The percent reduction for the batch cycle shall be calculated according to the procedures in § 63.490(c)(2).
(B) The percent reduction for control devices shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.490(c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii).
(C) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(iii) Actual emissions from Group 2 batch front-end process vents (EBFEPV2
iACTUAL
) shall be calculated using Equation 47 and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii)(A) through (h)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. EBFEPV2
iu
shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
ER05SE96.044
(iv) Emissions from Group 2 batch front-end process vents at baseline shall be calculated as follows:
(A) If the batch front-end process vent was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, EBFEPV2
iBASE
= EBFEPV2
iu
and shall be calculated according to the procedures using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
(B) If the batch front-end process vent was controlled on November 15, 1990, use Equation 48 and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii)(A) through (h)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. EBFEPV2
iu
shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
ER05SE96.045
(7) Emissions from aggregate batch vent streams shall be determined as follows:
(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 aggregate batch vent streams (EABV1
iu
) shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for EABV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 aggregate batch vent streams controlled to a level more stringent than the standard (EABV1i
ACTUAL
) shall be calculated using Equation 49:
ER09MR99.007
(A) The percent reduction for control devices shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.490(e).
(B) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(iii) Actual emissions from Group 2 aggregate batch vents streams (EABV2
iACTUAL
) shall be calculated using Equation 50 and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(7)(ii)(A) through (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section. EABV2
iu
shall be calculated according to the equations and procedures for EABV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
ER05SE96.047
(iv) Emissions from Group 2 aggregate batch vent streams at baseline shall be calculated as follows:
(A) If the aggregate batch vent stream was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, EABV2
iBASE
= EABV2
iu
and shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for EABV
iu
in paragraph (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
(B) If the aggregate batch vent stream was controlled on November 15, 1990, use Equation 51 and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(7)(ii)(A) through (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section. EABV2
iu
shall be calculated according to the equations and procedures for EABV
iu
in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.
ER05SE96.048
(i) The following procedures shall be followed to establish nominal efficiencies for emission controls for storage vessels, continuous front-end process vents, and process wastewater streams. The procedures in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(6) of this section shall be followed for control technologies that are different in use or design from the reference control technologies and achieve greater percent reductions than the percent efficiencies assigned to the reference control technologies in § 63.111.
(1) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology, and the different control technology will be used in more than three applications at a single plant-site, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section, as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(ii), to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, in writing.
(i) Emission stream characteristics of each emission point to which the control technology is or will be applied, including the kind of emission point, flow, organic HAP concentration, and all other stream characteristics necessary to design the control technology or determine its performance.
(ii) Description of the control technology, including design specifications.
(iii) Documentation demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction the control efficiency of the control technology. This may include performance test data collected using an appropriate EPA Method or any other method validated according to Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. If it is infeasible to obtain test data, documentation may include a design evaluation and calculations. The engineering basis of the calculation procedures and all inputs and assumptions made in the calculations shall be documented.
(iv) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control technology will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).
(2) The Administrator shall determine within 120 days whether an application presents sufficient information to determine nominal efficiency. The Administrator reserves the right to request specific data in addition to the items listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(3) The Administrator shall determine within 120 days of the submittal of sufficient data whether a control technology shall have a nominal efficiency and the level of that nominal efficiency. If, in the Administrator's judgment, the control technology achieves a level of emission reduction greater than the reference control technology for a particular kind of emission point, the Administrator will publish a
Federal Register
notice establishing a nominal efficiency for the control technology.
(4) The Administrator may grant permission to take emission credits for use of the control technology. The Administrator may also impose requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the specified nominal efficiency.
(5) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology
that is different in use or design from the reference control technology and the different control technology will be used in no more than three applications at a single plant site, the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (i)(1)(i) as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(ii) to the Administrator.
(i) In these instances, use and conditions for use of the control technology may be approved by the permitting authority as part of an operating permit application or modification. The permitting authority shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2) through (i)(4) of this section except that, in these instances, a
Federal Register
notice is not required to establish the nominal efficiency for the different technology.
(ii) If, in reviewing the application, the permitting authority believes the control technology has broad applicability for use by other sources, the permitting authority shall submit the information provided in the application to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. The Administrator shall review the technology for broad applicability and may publish a
Federal Register
notice; however, this review shall not affect the permitting authority's approval of the nominal efficiency of the control technology for the specific application.
(6) If, in reviewing an application for a control technology for an emission point, the Administrator or permitting authority determines that the control technology is not different in use or design from the reference control technology, the Administrator or permitting authority shall deny the application.
(j) The following procedures shall be used for calculating the efficiency (percent reduction) of pollution prevention measures for storage vessels, continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, and wastewater streams:
(1) A pollution prevention measure is any practice which meets the criteria of paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that results in a lesser quantity of organic HAP emissions per unit of product released to the atmosphere prior to out-of-process recycling, treatment, or control of emissions, while the same product is produced.
(ii) Pollution prevention measures may include substitution of feedstocks that reduce organic HAP emissions; alterations to the production process to reduce the volume of materials released to the environment; equipment modifications; housekeeping measures; and in-process recycling that returns waste materials directly to production as raw materials. Production cutbacks do not qualify as pollution prevention.
(2) The emission reduction efficiency of pollution prevention measures implemented after November 15, 1990, may be used in calculating the actual emissions from an emission point in the debit and credit equations in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(i) For pollution prevention measures, the percent reduction is used in the equations in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section and paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(7) of this section is the percent difference between the monthly organic HAP emissions for each emission point after the pollution prevention measure for the most recent month versus monthly emissions from the same emission point before the pollution prevention measure, adjusted by the volume of product produced during the two monthly periods.
(ii) Equation 52 shall be used to calculate the percent reduction of a pollution prevention measure for each emission point.
ER05SE96.049
where:
Percent reduction = Efficiency of pollution prevention measure (percent organic HAP reduction).
E
B
= Monthly emissions before the pollution prevention measure, Mg/month, determined as specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(ii)(A), (j)(2)(ii)(B), and (j)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.
E
pp
= Monthly emissions after the pollution prevention measure, Mg/month, as determined for the most recent month, determined as specified in either paragraphs (j)(2)(ii)(D) or (j)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.
P
B
= Monthly production before the pollution prevention measure, Mg/month, during the same period over which E
B
is calculated.
P
pp
= Monthly production after the pollution prevention measure, Mg/month, as determined for the most recent month.
(A) The monthly emissions before the pollution prevention measure, E
B
, shall be determined in a manner consistent with the equations and procedures in paragraph (g)(2) of this section for continuous front-end process vents, paragraph (g)(3) of this section for storage vessels, paragraph (g)(6) of this section for batch front-end process vents, and paragraph (g)(7) of this section for aggregate batch vent streams.
(B) For wastewater, E
B
shall be calculated according to § 63.150(j)(2)(ii)(B).
(C) If the pollution prevention measure was implemented prior to September 5, 1996, records may be used to determine E
B
.
(D) The monthly emissions after the pollution prevention measure, E
pp
, may be determined during a performance test or by a design evaluation and documented engineering calculations. Once an emissions-to-production ratio has been established, the ratio may be used to estimate monthly emissions from monthly production records.
(E) For wastewater, E
pp
shall be calculated according to § 63.150(j)(2)(ii)(E).
(iii) All equations, calculations, test procedures, test results, and other information used to determine the percent reduction achieved by a pollution prevention measure for each emission point shall be fully documented.
(iv) The same pollution prevention measure may reduce emissions from multiple emission points. In such cases, the percent reduction in emissions for each emission point shall be calculated.
(v) For the purposes of the equations in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(7) of this section, used to calculate credits for emission points controlled more stringently than the reference control technology or standard, the nominal efficiency of a pollution prevention measure is equivalent to the percent reduction of the pollution prevention measure. When a pollution prevention measure is used, the owner or operator of an affected source is not required to apply to the Administrator for a nominal efficiency and is not subject to paragraph (i) of this section.
(k) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the emissions average will not result in greater hazard, or at the option of the Administrator, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were controlled according to the provisions in §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.486, 63.493, and 63.501.
(1) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the Administrator.
(i) The Administrator may require owners and operators to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.
(ii) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made according to any guidance that the Administrator makes available for use.
(2) Owners and operators shall provide documentation demonstrating the hazard or risk equivalency of their proposed emissions average in their operating permit application or in their Emissions Averaging Plan if an operating permit application has not yet been submitted.
(3) An Emissions Averaging Plan that does not demonstrate hazard or risk equivalency to the satisfaction of the Administrator shall not be approved. The Administrator may require such adjustments to the Emissions Averaging Plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the emissions average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.486, 63.493, and 63.501.
(4) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration shall:
(i) Be a quantitative, bona fide chemical hazard or risk assessment;
(ii) Account for differences in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and
(iii) Meet any requirements set by the Administrator for such demonstrations.
(l) For periods of monitoring excursions, an owner or operator may request that the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(4) of this section be followed instead of the procedures in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of monitoring excursions in the Periodic Reports as required in § 63.506(e)(6).
(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that other types of monitoring data or engineering calculations are appropriate to establish that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits. This demonstration shall be made to the Administrator's satisfaction, and the Administrator may establish procedures for demonstrating compliance that are acceptable.
(3) The owner or operator shall provide documentation of the excursion and the other types of monitoring data or engineering calculations to be used to demonstrate that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits.
(4) The Administrator may assign full or partial credit and debits upon review of the information provided.
(m) For each emission point included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting equivalent to that required for Group 1 emission points complying with §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.486, 63.493, and 63.501, as applicable. If back-end process operations are included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting equivalent to that required for back-end process operations complying with § 63.493. The specific requirements for continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, storage vessels, back-end process operations, and wastewater are identified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(6) of this section.
(1) For each continuous front-end process vent equipped with a flare, incinerator, boiler, or process heater, as appropriate to the control technique:
(i) Determine whether the continuous front-end process vent is Group 1 or Group 2 according to the procedures specified in § 63.115 and as required by § 63.485;
(ii) Conduct initial and subsequent performance tests to determine percent reduction as specified in § 63.116 and as required by § 63.485; and
(iii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.114, 63.117(a), and 63.118(a) and (f), as required, for the specific control device as required by § 63.485.
(2) For each continuous front-end process vent equipped with a carbon adsorber, absorber, or condenser but not equipped with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:
(i) Determine the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value according to the procedures specified in § 63.115, except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4) and § 63.485(x); and
(ii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports according to the procedures specified in §§ 63.114, 63.117(a), and 63.118(b) and (f), as required, for the specific recovery device, and as required by § 63.485.
(3) For each storage vessel controlled with an internal floating roof, external roof, or a closed vent system with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:
(i) Perform the monitoring or inspection procedures according to the procedures specified in § 63.120, and as required by § 63.484;
(ii) Perform the reporting and recordkeeping procedures according to the procedures specified in §§ 63.122 and 63.123, and as required by § 63.484; and
(iii) For closed vent systems with control devices, conduct an initial design evaluation and submit an operating plan according to the procedures
specified in § 63.120(d) and § 63.122(b), and as required by § 63.484.
(4) For back-end process operations included in an emissions average:
(i) If stripping technology, and no control or recovery device, is used to reduce back-end process operation emissions, the owner or operator shall implement the following portions of this subpart:
(A) Paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of § 63.495, paragraph (b) of § 63.498, and the applicable provisions of § 63.499, or
(B) Paragraphs (c) (1), (2), and (3) of § 63.495, paragraph (c) of § 63.498, and the applicable provisions of § 63.499;
(ii) If a control or recovery device is used to reduce back-end process operation emissions, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with §§ 63.496, 63.497, 63.498(d), and the applicable provisions of 63.499, and shall implement the provisions of these sections.
(5) For wastewater emission points, as appropriate to the control techniques:
(i) For wastewater treatment processes, conduct tests according to the procedures specified in § 63.138(i) and (j), and as required by § 63.501;
(ii) Conduct inspections and monitoring according to the procedures specified in § 63.143, and as required by § 63.501;
(iii) Implement a recordkeeping program according to the procedures specified in § 63.147, and as required by § 63.501; and
(iv) Implement a reporting program according to the procedures specified in § 63.146, and as required by § 63.501.
(6) For each batch front-end process vent and aggregate batch vent stream equipped with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:
(i) Determine whether the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is Group 1 or Group 2 according to the procedures specified in § 63.488;
(ii) Conduct performance tests according to the procedures specified in § 63.490;
(iii) Conduct monitoring according to the procedures specified in § 63.489; and
(iv) Perform the recordkeeping and reporting procedures according to the procedures specified in §§ 63.491 and 63.492.
(7) If an emission point in an emissions average is controlled using a pollution prevention measure or a device or technique for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are required by §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.486, 63.493, or § 63.501, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.506(f) for alternate monitoring parameters or inspection procedures in the Emissions Averaging Plan or operating permit application.
(n) Records of all information required to calculate emission debits and credits shall be retained for 5 years.
(o) Precompliance Reports, Emission Averaging Plans, Notifications of Compliance Status, Periodic Reports, and other reports shall be submitted as required by § 63.506.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11543, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38071, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43255, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.504
Additional requirements for performance testing.
(a) Performance testing shall be conducted in accordance with § 63.7(a)(1), (a)(3), (d), (e)(1) and (2), (e)(4), (g), and (h), with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and the additions specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Sections 63.484 through 63.501 also contain specific testing requirements. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions achievable during one of the time periods described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, without causing any of the situations described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to occur. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(i) The 6-month period that ends 2 months before the Notification of Compliance Status is due, according to § 63.506(e)(5); or the 6-month period that begins 3 months before the performance test and ends 3 months after the performance test.
(ii) Causing damage to equipment; necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.
(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator must conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2) References in § 63.7(g) to the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.9(h) shall refer to the requirements in § 63.506(e)(5).
(3) Because the site-specific test plans in § 63.7(c)(3) are not required, § 63.7(h)(4)(ii) is not applicable.
(4) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intent to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled, to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present during the test. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.
(5) Performance tests shall be performed no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart (i.e., in time for the results to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status), rather than according to the time periods in § 63.7(a)(2).
(b) Data shall be reduced in accordance with the EPA approved methods specified in the applicable subpart or, if other test methods are used, the data and methods shall be validated according to the protocol in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, if an owner or operator of an affected source uses a flare to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration. If a compliance demonstration has been conducted previously for a flare, using the techniques specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, that compliance demonstration may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if either no deliberate process changes have been made since the compliance demonstration, or the results of the compliance demonstration reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4);
(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted, using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6); and
(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.
(4) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section no longer apply
and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
[65 FR 38073, June 19, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43256, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.505
Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
(a)
Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.
The owner or operator of a control or recovery device that has one or more parameter monitoring level requirements specified under this subpart shall establish a maximum or minimum level for each measured parameter. If a performance test is required by this subpart for a control device, the owner or operator shall use the procedures in either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to establish the parameter monitoring level(s). If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a control device, the owner or operator may use the procedures in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section to establish the parameter monitoring levels. When using the procedures specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.506(e)(3)(vii) for review and approval, as part of the Precompliance Report.
(1) The owner or operator shall operate control and recovery devices such that the daily average of monitored parameters remains above the minimum established level or below the maximum established level, except as otherwise stated in this subpart.
(2) As specified in § 63.506(e)(5), all established levels, along with their supporting documentation and the definition of an operating day, shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow a monitoring parameter excursion caused by an activity that violates other applicable provisions of subpart A, F, G, or H of this part.
(b)
Establishment of parameter monitoring levels based exclusively on performance tests.
In cases where a performance test is required by this subpart, or the owner or operator of the affected source elects to do a performance test in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, and an owner or operator elects to establish a parameter monitoring level for a control, recovery, or recapture device based exclusively on parameter values measured during the performance test, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, as applicable.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
Back-end process operations using a control or recovery device to comply with §§ 63.493 through 63.500 and continuous front-end process vents.
During each compliance test, the appropriate parameter shall be continuously monitored during the required 1-hour runs. The monitoring level(s) shall then be established as the average of the maximum (or minimum) point values from the three test runs. The average of the maximum values shall be used when establishing a maximum level, and the average of the minimum values shall be used when establishing a minimum level.
(3)
Batch front-end process vents.
The monitoring level(s) shall be established using the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The procedures specified in this paragraph (b)(3) may only be used if the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, selected to be controlled were tested, and monitoring data were collected, during the entire period in which emissions were vented to the control device, as specified in § 63.490(c)(1)(i). If the owner or operator chose to test only a portion of the batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled, the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section shall be used.
(i) If more than one batch emission episode or more than one portion of a batch emission episode has been selected to be controlled, a single level for the batch cycle shall be calculated as follows:
(A) The average monitored parameter value shall be calculated for each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled. The average shall be based on
all values measured during the required performance test.
(B) If the level to be established is a maximum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the minimum of the average parameter values of the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled (
i.e.,
identify the emission episode, or portion thereof, which requires the lowest parameter value in order to assure compliance. The average parameter value that is necessary to assure compliance for that emission episode, or portion thereof, shall be the level for all emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle, that are selected to be controlled).
(C) If the level to be established is a minimum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the maximum of the average parameter values of the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled (
i.e.,
identify the emission episode, or portion thereof, which requires the highest parameter value in order to assure compliance. The average parameter value that is necessary to assure compliance for that emission episode, or portion thereof, shall be the level for all emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle, that are selected to be controlled).
(D) Alternatively, an average monitored parameter value shall be calculated for the entire batch cycle based on all values measured during each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled.
(ii) Instead of establishing a single level for the batch cycle, as described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, an owner or operator may establish separate levels for each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled. Each level shall be determined as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(iii) The batch cycle shall be defined in the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.506(e)(5). The definition shall include an identification of each batch emission episode and the information required to determine parameter monitoring compliance for partial batch cycles (
i.e.,
when part of a batch cycle is accomplished during two different operating days).
(4)
Aggregate batch vent streams.
For aggregate batch vent streams, except as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the monitoring level shall be established in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(5)
Batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams testing for dioxins and furans.
During each compliance test using the procedures specified in § 63.490(g), the appropriate parameter shall be continuously monitored during the required test runs. The monitoring level(s) shall then be established as the average of the maximum (or minimum) point values from the three test runs. The average of the maximum values shall be used when establishing a maximum level, and the average of the minimum values shall be used when establishing a minimum level.
(c)
Establishment of parameter monitoring levels based on performance tests, supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.
In cases where a performance test is required by this subpart, or the owner or operator elects to do a performance test in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, and the owner or operator elects to establish a parameter monitoring level for a control, recovery, or recapture device under this paragraph (c), the owner or operator shall supplement the parameter values measured during the performance test with engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of expected parameter values.
(d)
Establishment of parameter monitoring based on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.
In cases where a performance test is not required by this subpart and an owner or operator elects to establish a parameter monitoring level for a control, recovery, or recapture device under this paragraph (d), the determination of the parameter monitoring level shall be based exclusively on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.
(e)
Demonstration of compliance with back-end process provisions using stripper parameter monitoring.
If the owner or operator is demonstrating compliance with § 63.495 using stripper parameter
monitoring, stripper parameter levels shall be established for each grade in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. A single set of stripper parameter levels may be representative of multiple grades.
(1) For each grade, the owner or operator shall calculate the residual organic HAP content using the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) The location of the sampling shall be in accordance with § 63.495(d).
(ii) The residual organic HAP content in each sample is to be determined using Methods specified in § 63.495(e).
(2) For each grade, the owner or operator shall establish stripper operating parameter levels that represent stripper operation during the residual organic HAP content determination in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The stripper operating parameters shall include, at a minimum, temperature, pressure, steaming rates (for steam strippers), and some parameter that is indicative of residence time.
(3) After the initial determinations, an owner or operator may add a grade, with corresponding stripper parameter levels, using the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. The results of this determination shall be submitted in the next periodic report.
(4) An owner or operator complying with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of § 63.494 using stripping, and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, shall redetermine the residual organic HAP content for all affected grades whenever process changes are made. For the purposes of this section, a process change is any action that would reasonably be expected to impair the performance of the stripping operation. For the purposes of this section, examples of process changes may include changes in production capacity or production rate, or removal or addition of equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; or changes that reduce the residual organic HAP content of the elastomer.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Parameter monitoring excursion definitions.
(1) With respect to storage vessels (where the applicable monitoring plan specifies continuous monitoring), continuous front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, back-end process operations complying with § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) through the use of control or recovery devices, and process wastewater streams, an excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.
(ii) When the period of control or recovery device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (g)(1)(v) of this section, is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient, as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section, to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.
(iii) When the period of control or recovery device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (g)(1)(v) of this section, is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than two of the hours during the period of operation do not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data, as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section.
(iv) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (g)(1)(iii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour. For data compression systems approved under § 63.506(g)(3), monitoring data are insufficient to calculate a valid hour of data if there are less than four data measurements made during the hour.
(v) The periods listed in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (g)(1)(v)(E) of this section are not considered to be part of the period of control or recovery device operation, for the purposes of paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (g)(1)(iii) of this section.
(A) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or
(B) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.
(2) With respect to batch front-end process vents, an excursion means one of the two cases listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in either paragraph (g)(2)(i) or (g)(2)(ii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) When the batch cycle daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum or below the minimum established level for the given parameters.
(ii) When monitoring data are insufficient for an operating day. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the 15-minute periods when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device during the operating day, using the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (g)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.
(A) Determine the total amount of time during the operating day when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device.
(B) Except as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B)(
5
) of this section, subtract the time during the periods identified in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section from the total amount of time determined in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, to obtain the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient.
(
1
) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments;
(
2
) Start-ups;
(
3
) Shutdowns; or
(
4
) Malfunctions.
(
5
) On and after July 15, 2027, paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section no longer apply.
(C) Determine the total number of 15-minute periods in the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient, as was determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(D) If measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the total number of 15-minute periods determined in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the monitoring data are insufficient for the operating day.
(3) For storage vessels where the applicable monitoring plan does not specify continuous monitoring, an excursion is defined in paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. For a control or recovery device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria, this is considered a single excursion for the control or recovery device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) If the monitoring plan specifies monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (such as every 15 minutes or every hour), either of the cases listed in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(A) or (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section is considered a single excursion for the control device.
(A) When the average value of one or more parameters, averaged over the duration of the filling period for the storage vessel, is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.
(B) When monitoring data are insufficient. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the specific intervals at which parameters are to be monitored and recorded, according to the storage vessel's monitoring plan, during the filling period for the storage vessel.
(ii) If the monitoring plan does not specify monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (for example, if the relevant operating requirement is to exchange a disposable carbon canister before expiration of its rated service life), the monitoring plan shall define an excursion in
terms of the relevant operating requirement.
(h)
Excursion definitions for back-end operations complying through stripping.
(1) With respect to back-end process operations complying through the use of stripping technology, and demonstrating compliance by sampling, an excursion means one of the two cases listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) When the monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content is above the applicable residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494; or
(ii) When less than 75 percent of the samples required in 1 month are taken and analyzed in accordance with the provisions of § 63.495(b).
(2) With respect to back-end process operations complying through the use of stripping technology, and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, an excursion means one of the three cases listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (h)(2)(ii), and (h)(2)(iii) of this section. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) When the monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content is above the applicable residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494;
(ii) When an owner or operator fails to sample and analyze the organic HAP content of a sample for a grade with an hourly average stripper operating parameter value not in accordance with the established monitoring parameter levels for that parameter; or
(iii) When an owner or operator does not collect sufficient monitoring data for at least 75 percent of the grades or batches processed during a month. Stripper monitoring data are considered insufficient if monitoring parameters are obtained for less than 75 percent of the 15-minute periods during the processing of a grade, and a sample of that grade or batch is not taken and analyzed to determine the residual organic HAP content.
(i)
Excused excursions.
A number of excused excursions shall be allowed for each control or recovery device for each semiannual period. The number of excused excursions for each semiannual period is specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(6) of this section. This paragraph applies to affected sources required to submit Periodic Reports semiannually or quarterly. The first semiannual period is the 6-month period starting the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.
(1) For the first semiannual period—six excused excursions.
(2) For the second semiannual period—five excused excursions.
(3) For the third semiannual period—four excused excursions.
(4) For the fourth semiannual period—three excused excursions.
(5) For the fifth semiannual period—two excused excursions.
(6) For the sixth and all subsequent semiannual periods—one excused excursion.
(j)
Excursion definition for back-end operations subject to § 63.494(a)(4).
An excursion means when the total mass of organic HAP emitted for any consecutive 12-month period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the 12-month period, determined in accordance with § 63.495(g), is greater than the applicable emission limitation, determined in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv) and submitted in accordance with § 63.499(f)(1).
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11547, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38074, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43257, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.506
General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
(a)
Data retention.
Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source shall keep copies of all applicable records and reports required by this subpart for at least 5 years, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with the exception listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed. The most recent 6 months of records shall be retained on site or shall be accessible
from a central location by computer or other means that provide access within 2 hours after a request. The remaining 4 and one-half years of records may be retained offsite. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on microfilm, computer, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.
(2) If an owner or operator submits copies of reports to the appropriate EPA Regional Office, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of reports. If the EPA Regional Office has waived the requirement of § 63.10(a)(4)(ii) for submittal of copies of reports, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of those reports.
(b)
Subpart A requirements.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A as specified in Table 1 of this subpart. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
Malfunction records.
Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall maintain records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment), air pollution control equipment, or monitoring equipment. Each owner or operator shall maintain records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.483(a), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(i)
Records of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction.
Except as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section, the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
(A) Records of the occurrence and duration of each start-up, shutdown, and malfunction of operation of process equipment or control devices or recovery devices or continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart during which excess emissions occur.
(B) For each start-up, shutdown, or malfunction during which excess emissions occur, records reflecting whether the procedures specified in the affected source's start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan were followed, and documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the plan. For example, if a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan includes procedures for routing a control device to a backup control device, records shall be kept of whether the plan was followed. These records may take the form of a “checklist,” or other form of recordkeeping that confirms conformance with the start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan for the event.
(C) Records specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section are not required if they pertain solely to Group 2 emission points that are not included in an emissions average.
(D) On and after July 15, 2027, paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (b)(1)(i)(C) no longer apply; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of these records must be retained and available on-site for five years after July 15, 2027.
(ii)
Reports of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction.
For the purposes of this subpart, the semiannual start-up, shutdown, and malfunction reports shall be submitted on the same schedule as the Periodic Reports required under paragraph (e)(6) of this section instead of the schedule specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). The reports shall include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). On and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.
(2)
Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.
For new affected sources, each owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.5 regarding construction and reconstruction, excluding the provisions specified in § 63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H), (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2), and (d)(3)(ii).
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Recordkeeping and documentation.
Owners or operators required to keep continuous records shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(7) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (h)
of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.484(k) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(7) of this section apply. As described in § 63.484(k), certain storage vessels are not required to keep continuous records as specified in this paragraph. Owners and operators of such storage vessels shall keep records as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.484(k). Paragraphs (d)(8) and (d)(9) of this section specify documentation requirements.
(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every 15 minutes.
(2) The owner or operator shall record either each measured data value or block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values. Owners or operators of batch front-end process vents shall record each measured data value.
(3) Daily average (or batch cycle daily average) values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (d)(6) and (d)(7) of this section.
(i) The daily average value or batch cycle daily average shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values recorded during the operating day, except as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. For batch front-end process vents, as specified in § 63.491(e)(2)(i), only parameter values measured during those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle that the owner or operator has chosen to control shall be used to calculate the average. The calculated average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.
(ii) The operating day shall be the period that the owner or operator specifies in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status for purposes of determining daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters.
(4)-(5) [Reserved]
(6)
Records required when all recorded values are within the established limits.
If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum level or below the maximum level established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum level or below the maximum level rather than calculating and recording a daily average (or batch cycle daily average) for that operating day.
(7) Monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device or recovery device operation when monitors are not operating.
(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or
(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.
(8) For continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart, records documenting the completion of calibration checks, and records documenting the maintenance of continuous monitoring systems that are specified in the manufacturer's instructions or that are specified in other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.
(9) The owner or operator of an affected source granted a waiver under § 63.10(f) shall maintain the information, if any, specified by the Administrator as a condition of the waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.
(e)
Reporting and notification.
In addition to the reports and notifications required by subpart A, as specified in
Table 1 of this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and submit the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(3) through (e)(8) of this section, as applicable. All reports required by this subpart, and the schedule for their submittal, are listed in Table 9 of this subpart.
(1) Owners and operators shall not be in violation of the reporting requirements of this subpart for failing to submit information required to be included in a specified report if the owner or operator meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section. Examples of circumstances where this paragraph may apply include information related to newly-added equipment or emission points, changes in the process, changes in equipment required or utilized for compliance with the requirements of this subpart, or changes in methods or equipment for monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting.
(i) The information was not known in time for inclusion in the report specified by this subpart;
(ii) The owner or operator has been diligent in obtaining the information; and
(iii) The owner or operator submits a report according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) through (e)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.
(A) If this subpart expressly provides for supplements to the report in which the information is required, the owner or operator shall submit the information as a supplement to that report. The information shall be submitted no later than 60 days after it is obtained, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.
(B) If this subpart does not expressly provide for supplements, but the owner or operator must submit a request for revision of an operating permit pursuant to part 70 or part 71, due to circumstances to which the information pertains, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the request for revision to the operating permit.
(C) In any case not addressed by paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (e)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the first Periodic Report, as required by this subpart, which has a submission deadline at least 60 days after the information is obtained.
(2) All reports required under this subpart shall be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.
(3)
Precompliance Report.
Owners or operators of affected sources requesting an extension for compliance; requesting approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; requesting approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as described in § 63.488(b)(6)(i); wishing to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.505(c) or (d); shall submit a Precompliance Report according to the schedule described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. The Precompliance Report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) through (vii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i)
Submittal dates.
The Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than December 19, 2000. If a Precompliance Report was submitted prior to June 19, 2000 and no changes need to be made to that Precompliance Report, the owner or operator shall re-submit the earlier report or submit notification that the previously submitted report is still valid. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved. For new affected sources, the Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ix) of this section.
(ii) A request for an extension for compliance, as specified in § 63.481(e), may be submitted in the Precompliance Report. The request for
a compliance extension shall include the data outlined in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D), as required in § 63.481(e)(1).
(iii) The alternative monitoring parameter information required in paragraph (f) of this section shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of an affected source seeks to comply through the use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in this subpart or in subpart G of this part, or seeks to comply by monitoring a different parameter than those specified in this subpart or in subpart G of this part.
(iv) If the affected source seeks to comply using alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a request for approval in the Precompliance Report.
(v) The owner or operator shall report the intent to use alternative controls to comply with the provisions of this subpart in the Precompliance Report. The Administrator may deem alternative controls to be equivalent to the controls required by the standard, under the procedures outlined in § 63.6(g).
(vi) If a request for approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as described in § 63.488(b)(6)(i)(C) is being made, the information required by § 63.488(b)(6)(iii)(B) shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.
(vii) If an owner or operator establishes parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.505(c) or (d), the following information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report:
(A) Identification of which procedures (i.e., § 63.505(c) or (d)) are to be used; and
(B) A description of how the parameter monitoring level is to be established. If the procedures in § 63.505(c) are to be used, a description of how performance test data will be used shall be included.
(viii) [Reserved]
(ix) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ix)(A), or (e)(3)(ix)(B) of this section. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in a supplement to the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.
(A) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to clarify or modify information previously submitted.
(B) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section; to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section; to use alternative controls, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section; to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(vi) of this section; or to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.505(c) or (d), as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(vii) of this section.
(4)
Emissions Averaging Plan.
For all existing affected sources using emissions averaging, an Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted for approval according to the schedule and procedures described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. The Emissions Averaging Plan shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, unless the information required in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section is submitted with an operating permit application. An owner or operator of an affected source who submits an operating permit application instead of an Emissions Averaging Plan shall submit the information specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section. In addition, a supplement to the Emissions Averaging Plan, as required under paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section, is to be submitted whenever additional alternative controls or operating scenarios may be used to comply with this subpart. Updates to the Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section.
(i)
Submittal and approval.
The Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted no later than September 19, 2000, and is subject to Administrator approval. If an Emissions Averaging Plan was submitted prior to June 19, 2000 and no changes need to be made to that Emissions Averaging Plan, the owner or operator shall re-submit the earlier plan or submit notification that the previously submitted plan is still valid. The Administrator shall determine within 120 days whether the Emissions Averaging Plan submitted presents sufficient information. The Administrator shall either approve the Emissions Averaging Plan, request changes, or request that the owner or operator submit additional information. Once the Administrator receives sufficient information, the Administrator shall approve, disapprove, or request changes to the plan within 120 days.
(ii)
Information required.
The Emissions Averaging Plan shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(A) through (e)(4)(ii)(N) of this section for all emission points included in an emissions average.
(A) The required information shall include the identification of all emission points and process back-end operations in the planned emissions average and, where applicable, notation of whether each storage vessel, continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, aggregate batch vents stream, and process wastewater stream is a Group 1 or Group 2 emission point, as defined in § 63.482 or as designated under § 63.503(c)(2).
(B) The required information shall include the projected emission debits and credits for each emission point and the sum for the emission points involved in the average calculated according to § 63.503. The projected credits shall be greater than or equal to the projected debits, as required under § 63.503(e)(3).
(C) The required information shall include the specific control technology or pollution prevention measure that will be used for each emission point included in the average and date of application or expected date of application.
(D) The required information shall include the specific identification of each emission point affected by a pollution prevention measure. To be considered a pollution prevention measure, the criteria in § 63.503(j)(1) shall be met. If the same pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple emission points in the average, the owner or operator shall identify each of these emission points.
(E) The required information shall include a statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in § 63.503(m), (n), and (o) that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on or before the date of compliance.
(F) The required information shall include documentation of the data listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
1
) through (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
5
) of this section for each storage vessel and continuous front-end process vent included in the average.
(
1
) The required documentation shall include the values of the parameters used to determine whether the emission point is Group 1 or Group 2. Except as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
6
) of this section, where a TRE index value is used for continuous front-end process vent group determination, the estimated or measured values of the parameters used in the TRE equation in § 63.115(d) and the resulting TRE index value shall be submitted.
(
2
) The required documentation shall include the estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debit and credit calculations in § 63.503(g) and (h). These parameter values shall be specified in the affected source's Emissions Averaging Plan (or operating permit) as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters shall be reported in an update to the Emissions Averaging Plan, as required by paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(
3
) The required documentation shall include the estimated percent reduction if a control technology achieving a lower percent reduction than the efficiency of the applicable reference control technology or standard is or will be applied to the emission point.
(
4
) The required documentation shall include the anticipated nominal efficiency if a control technology achieving a greater percent emission reduction than the efficiency of the reference control technology is or will be applied to the emission point. The procedures in § 63.503(i) shall be followed to apply for a nominal efficiency, and the report specified in paragraph (e)(7)(ii) of this section shall be submitted with the Emissions Averaging Plan as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.
(
5
) The required documentation shall include the monitoring plan specified in § 63.122(b), to include the information specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i) and in either § 63.120(d)(2)(ii) or (d)(2)(iii) for each storage vessel controlled with a closed-vent system using a control device other than a flare.
(
6
) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), that last sentence of paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
1
) of this section no longer applies.
(G) The information specified in paragraph (f) of this section shall be included in the Emissions Averaging Plan for:
(
1
) Each continuous front-end process vent subject to § 63.485 controlled by a pollution prevention measure or control technique for which monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are not specified in § 63.114; and
(
2
) Each storage vessel controlled by pollution prevention or a control technique other than an internal or external floating roof or a closed vent system with a control device.
(H) The required information shall include documentation of the data listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(H)(
1
) through (e)(4)(ii)(H)(
4
) of this section for each process wastewater stream included in the average.
(
1
) The required documentation shall include the data used to determine whether the wastewater stream is a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream.
(
2
) The required documentation shall include the estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the wastewater emission credit and debit calculations in § 63.503(g)(5) and (h)(5). These parameter values shall be specified in the affected source's Emissions Averaging Plan (or operating permit) as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters shall be reported as required by paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(
3
) The required documentation shall include the estimated percent reduction if:
(
i
) A control technology that achieves an emission reduction less than or equal to the emission reduction that would otherwise have been achieved by a steam stripper designed to the specifications found in § 63.138(g) is or will be applied to the wastewater stream, or
(
ii
) A control technology achieving less than or equal to 95 percent emission reduction is or will be applied to the vapor stream(s) vented and collected from the treatment processes, or
(
iii
) A pollution prevention measure is or will be applied.
(
4
) The required documentation shall include the anticipated nominal efficiency if the owner or operator plans to apply for a nominal efficiency under § 63.503(i). A nominal efficiency shall be applied for if:
(
i
) A control technology that achieves an emission reduction greater than the emission reduction that would have been achieved by a steam stripper designed to the specifications found in § 63.138(g), is or will be applied to the wastewater stream; or
(
ii
) A control technology achieving greater than 95 percent emission reduction is or will be applied to the vapor stream(s) vented and collected from the treatment processes.
(I) For each pollution prevention measure, treatment process, or control device used to reduce air emissions of organic HAP from wastewater and for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are specified in § 63.143, the information specified in paragraph (f) of this section (Alternative Monitoring Parameters) shall be included in the Emissions Averaging Plan.
(J) The required information shall include documentation of the data required by estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debit and credit calculations in § 63.503(g) and (h) for each process back-
end operation included in an emissions average. These values shall be specified in the affected source's Emissions Averaging Plan (or operating permit) as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters shall be reported as required by paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(K) The required information shall include documentation of the information required by § 63.503(k). The documentation shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the Administrator, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were not included in an emissions average.
(L) The required information shall include documentation of the data listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(L)(
1
) through (e)(4)(ii)(L)(
3
) of this section for each batch front-end process vent and aggregate batch vent stream included in the average.
(
1
) The required documentation shall include the values of the parameters used to determine whether the emission point is Group 1 or Group 2.
(
2
) The required information shall include the estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debit and credit calculations in § 63.503(g) and (h). These parameter values shall be specified in the affected source's Emissions Averaging Plan (or operating permit) as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters shall be reported as required by paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section.
(
3
) For batch front-end process vents, the required documentation shall include the estimated percent reduction for the batch cycle. For aggregate batch vent streams, the required documentation shall include the estimated percent reduction achieved on a continuous basis.
(M) For each pollution prevention measure or control device used to reduce air emissions of organic HAP from batch front-end process vents or batch vent streams and for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are specified in § 63.489, the information specified in paragraph (f) of this section, Alternative Monitoring Parameters, shall be included in the Emissions Averaging Plan.
(N) The required information shall include documentation of the data required by § 63.503(k). The documentation shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the emissions average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the Administrator, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were not included in an emissions average.
(iii)
Supplement to Emissions Averaging Plan.
The owner or operator required to prepare an Emissions Averaging Plan under paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall also prepare a supplement to the Emissions Averaging Plan for any additional alternative controls or operating scenarios that may be used to achieve compliance.
(iv)
Updates to Emissions Averaging Plan.
The owner or operator of an affected source required to submit an Emissions Averaging Plan under paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall also submit written updates of the Emissions Averaging Plan to the Administrator for approval under the circumstances described in paragraphs (e)(4)(iv)(A) through (e)(4)(iv)(C) of this section unless the relevant information has been included and submitted in an operating permit application or amendment.
(A) The owner or operator who plans to make a change listed in either paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(A)(
1
) or (e)(4)(iv)(A)(
2
) of this section shall submit an Emissions Averaging Plan update at least 120 days prior to making the change.
(
1
) An Emissions Averaging Plan update shall be submitted whenever an owner or operator elects to achieve compliance with the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.503 by using a control technique other than that specified in the Emissions Averaging Plan, or plans to monitor a different parameter or operate a control device in a manner other than that specified in the Emissions Averaging Plan.
(
2
) An Emissions Averaging Plan update shall be submitted whenever an emission point or an EPPU is added to an existing affected source and is planned to be included in an emissions
average, or whenever an emission point not included in the emissions average described in the Emissions Averaging Plan is to be added to an emissions average. The information in paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be updated to include the additional emission point.
(B) The owner or operator who has made a change as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(
1
) or (e)(4)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section shall submit an Emissions Averaging Plan update within 90 days after the information regarding the change is known to the affected source. The update may be submitted in the next quarterly periodic report if the change is made after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.
(
1
) An Emissions Averaging Plan update shall be submitted whenever a process change is made such that the group status of any emission point in an emissions average changes.
(
2
) An Emissions Averaging Plan update shall be submitted whenever a value of a parameter in the emission credit or debit equations in § 63.503(g) or (h) changes such that it is below the minimum or above the maximum established level specified in the Emissions Averaging Plan and causes a decrease in the projected credits or an increase in the projected debits.
(C) The Administrator shall approve or request changes to the Emissions Averaging Plan update within 120 days of receipt of sufficient information regarding the change for emission points included in emissions averages.
(5)
Notification of Compliance Status.
For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted. For equipment leaks subject to § 63.502, the owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.182(c) in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source, and an update shall be provided in the first Periodic Report that is due at least 150 days after each subsequent applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source. For all other emission points, including heat exchange systems, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (xiii) of this section, as applicable, and shall be submitted no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart.
(i) The results of any emission point group determinations, process section applicability determinations, performance tests, inspections, any other information used to demonstrate compliance, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under §§ 63.122 and 63.484 for storage vessels, § 63.117 for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.492 for batch front-end process vents, § 63.499 for back-end process operations, § 63.146 for process wastewater, and § 63.503 for emission points included in an emissions average. In addition, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) For performance tests, group determinations, and process section applicability determinations that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information, from the test report, that is requested on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.
(B) If the performance test results have been submitted electronically via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section, the unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test report. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted. A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to
standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.
(ii) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established under § 63.114(e) and § 63.485(k) for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.489 for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.497 for back-end process operations, § 63.143(f) for process wastewater, § 63.503(m) for emission points in emissions averages, paragraph (e)(8) of this section, or paragraph (f) of this section, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(E) of this section shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. Further, as described in § 63.484(k), for those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.484(k) specifies compliance with the provisions of § 63.505, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section for each monitoring parameter, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. For those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.484(k) does not require compliance with the provisions of § 63.505, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3) as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application.
(A) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.
(B) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates proper operation of the control device.
(C) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters.
(D) For batch front-end process vents, the required information shall include a definition of each batch cycle that requires the control of one or more batch emission episodes during the cycle, as specified in § 63.490(c)(2) and 63.505(b)(3)(iii).
(E) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating month for the purposes of determining monthly average values of residual organic HAP.
(iii) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the values of all parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.503(g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.503(g) and (h), and the resulting calculation of credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The determination of applicability for flexible operation units as specified in § 63.480(f).
(vi) The parameter monitoring levels for flexible operation units, and the basis on which these levels were selected, or a demonstration that these levels are appropriate at all times, as specified in § 63.480(f)(7).
(vii) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.480(g), for storage vessels assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.
(viii) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.480(h) for recovery operations equipment assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.
(ix) For owners and operators of Group 2 batch front-end process vents establishing a batch mass input limitation, as specified in § 63.490(f), the affected source's operating year for purposes of determining compliance with the batch mass input limitation.
(x) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.481(k), and if the provisions of § 63.481(k) allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.
(xi) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility.
(xii) An owner or operator complying with paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator of the election to comply with paragraph (h)(1) of this section as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, or as part of the appropriate Periodic Report, as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ix) of this section.
(xiii) For flares subject to the requirements in § 63.508, owners and operators must also submit the information in this paragraph in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for flare monitoring. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must include flare design (
e.g.,
steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h), as applicable; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame or flare flame is absent.
(6)
Periodic Reports.
For existing and new affected sources, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (xiii) of this section. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.502, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.182(d) under the conditions listed in § 63.182(d) as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6), and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.502(n), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6). Section § 63.505 shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 emission points and for Group 1 and Group 2 emission points included in emissions averages with the following exception: As discussed in § 63.484(k), for storage vessels to which the provisions of § 63.505 do not apply, as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2), the owner or operator is required to comply with the requirements set out in the monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance. On and after July 15, 2027 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Polymers and Resins Sector Lead. Owners and operators must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.9(i) and § 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xi) and (xii) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section or paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (x) and (xiii) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance
Status is due. All periodic reports must contain the company name and address (including county), as well as the beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(ii) If none of the compliance exceptions in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (ix) or (xiii) of this section occurred during the 6-month period, the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section shall be a statement that there were no compliance exceptions as described in this paragraph for the 6-month period covered by that report and that none of the activities specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (ix) or (xiii) of this section occurred during the 6-month period covered by that report.
For an owner or operator of an affected source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.484 through 63.501 for any emission point, Periodic Reports shall include:
(A) All information specified in § 63.122(a)(4) for storage vessels, §§ 63.117(a)(3) and 63.118(f) and 63.485(s)(5) for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.492 for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.499 for back-end process operations, § 63.104(f)(2) for heat exchange systems, and §§ 63.146(c) through 63.146(g) for process wastewater.
(B) The daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters for all excursions, as defined in § 63.505(g) and § 63.505(h). For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the start date and time and duration (in hours) of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.
(C) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), for each excursion that is not an excused excursion, the report must include the date of the excursion, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the excursion (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.
(D) The information in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(D)(
1
) through (e)(6)(iii)(D)(
5
) of this section, as applicable:
(
1
) Any supplements to the Emissions Averaging Plan, as required in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section;
(
2
) Notification if a process change is made such that the group status of any emission point changes from Group 2 to Group 1. The owner or operator is not required to submit a notification of a process change if that process change caused the group status of an emission point to change from Group 1 to Group 2. However, until the owner or operator notifies the Administrator that the group status of an emission point has changed from Group 1 to Group 2, the owner or operator is required to continue to comply with the Group 1 requirements for that emission point. This notification may be submitted at any time.
(
3
) Notification if one or more emission points (other than equipment leaks) or one or more EPPU is added to an affected source. The owner or operator shall submit the information contained in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(D)(
3
)(
i
) through (e)(6)(iii)(D)(
3
)(
ii
) of this section.
(
i
) A description of the addition to the affected source; and
(
ii
) Notification of the group status of the additional emission point or all emission points in the EPPU.
(
4
) Notification if a standard operating procedure, as defined in § 63.500(a)(2), is changed and the change has the potential for increasing the concentration of carbon disulfide in the crumb dryer exhaust. This notification shall also include a summary of the test results of the carbon disulfide concentration resulting from the new standard operating procedure. The results of the performance test must be submitted according to paragraph (i) of this section by the date the Periodic Report is submitted.
(
5
) For process wastewater streams sent for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g), reports of changes in the identity of the treatment facility or transferee.
(E) The start date, start time, duration in hours, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and
which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.483(a), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(iv) For each batch front-end process vent with a batch mass input limitation, every second Periodic Report shall include the mass of HAP or material input to the batch unit operation during the 12-month period covered by the preceding and current Periodic Reports, and a statement of whether the batch front-end process vent was in or out of compliance with the batch mass input limitation.
(v) Except as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, if any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:
(A) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.
(B) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information, pertaining to the performance test, that is requested on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.
(vi) Notification of a change in the primary product of an EPPU, in accordance with the provisions in § 63.480(f). This includes a change in primary product from one elastomer product to either another elastomer product or to a non-elastomer product.
(vii) The results for each change made to a predominant use determination made under § 63.480(g) for a storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart after the change.
(viii) The results for each change made to a predominant use determination made under § 63.480(h) for recovery operations equipment assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart after the change.
(ix) An owner or operator complying with paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator of the election to comply with paragraph (h)(1) of this section as part of the Periodic Report or as part of the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(xi) of this section.
(x) An owner or operator electing not to retain daily average or batch cycle daily average values under paragraph (h)(2) of this section shall notify the Administrator as specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.
(xi) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for all emission points included in an emissions average as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xi)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each quarter. The first report shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 150 days after the compliance date.
(B) The quarterly reports shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xi)(B)(
1
) through (e)(6)(xi)(B)(
7
) of this section for all emission points included in an emissions average.
(
1
) The credits and debits calculated each month during the quarter;
(
2
) A demonstration that debits calculated for the quarter are not more than 1.30 times the credits calculated for the quarter, as required under § 63.503(e)(4);
(
3
) The values of any inputs to the debit and credit equations in § 63.503(g) and (h) that change from month to month during the quarter or that have changed since the previous quarter;
(
4
) Except as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, results of any performance tests conducted during the reporting period including one complete report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point as described in paragraph (e)(6)(v) of this section. If the performance test was submitted to CEDRI, include the unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date of the performance test(s) in the quarterly report. The performance test results must be submitted to
CEDRI by the date the quarterly report is due;
(
5
) Reports of daily average values or batch cycle daily averages of monitored parameters for excursions as defined in § 63.505(g) or (h) and the date of the excursion;
(
6
) For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the start date and time and duration in hours of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified; and
(
7
) Any other information the affected source is required to report under the operating permit or Emissions Averaging Plan for the affected source.
(C) Every fourth quarterly report shall include the following:
(
1
) A demonstration that annual credits are greater than or equal to annual debits as required by § 63.503(e)(3); and
(
2
) A certification of compliance with all the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.503.
(xii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for particular emission points and process sections not included in an emissions average as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for a period of 1 year for an emission point or process section that is not included in an emissions average if:
(
1
) A control or recovery device for a particular emission point or process section has more excursions, as defined in § 63.505(g) or (h), than the number of excused excursions allowed under § 63.505(i) for a semiannual reporting period; or
(
2
) The Administrator requests that the owner or operator submit quarterly reports for the emission point or process section.
(B) The quarterly reports shall include all information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (ix) of this section, as applicable to the emission point or process section for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (e)(6)(xii)(A) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the affected source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.
(C) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.
(D) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for 1 year without more excursions occurring (during that year) than the number of excused excursions allowed under § 63.505(i), the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point or process section.
(xiii) The information specified in § 63.108(l)(2).
(7)
Other reports.
Other reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by § 63.484 shall be submitted, as specified in § 63.122(h)(1) and (h)(2).
(ii) For owners or operators of affected sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.503(i) shall be submitted, as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(ii)(A) or (e)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, as appropriate.
(A) If use of a nominal control efficiency is part of the initial Emissions Averaging Plan described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the information shall be submitted with the Emissions Averaging Plan.
(B) If an owner or operator elects to use a nominal control efficiency after submittal of the initial Emissions Averaging Plan as described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the information shall be submitted at the discretion of the owner or operator.
(iii) For back-end process operations using a control or recovery device to comply with §§ 63.493 through 63.500, the compliance redetermination report required by § 63.499(d) shall be submitted within 180 days after the process change.
(iv) When the conditions of §§ 63.480(f)(3)(iii), (f)(9), or 63.480(f)(10)(iii) are met, reports of changes to the primary product for an EPPU or process unit, as required by §§ 63.480(f)(3)(iii), 63.480(f)(9), or
63.480(f)(10)(iii)(C), respectively, shall be submitted.
(v) Owners or operators of EPPU or emission points (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.502) that are subject to § 63.480(i)(1) or (i)(2) shall submit a report as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(v)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) Reports shall include:
(
1
) A description of the process change or addition, as appropriate;
(
2
) The planned start-up date and the appropriate compliance date, according to § 63.480(i)(1) or (2);
(
3
) Identification of the group status of emission points (except equipment leak components subject to the requirements in § 63.502) specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(v)(A)(
3
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this section, as applicable.
(
i
) All the emission points in the added EPPU, as described in § 63.480(i)(1).
(
ii
) All the emission points in an affected source designated as a new affected source under § 63.480(i)(2)(i).
(
iii
) All the added or created emission points as described in § 63.480(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii).
(
4
) If the owner or operator wishes to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring or recordkeeping, alternative controls, engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, or wishes to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.505(c) or (d), a Precompliance Report shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (e)(7)(v)(B) of this section.
(B) Reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(v)(B)(
1
) through (e)(7)(v)(B)(
3
) of this section, as appropriate.
(
1
) Owners or operators of an added EPPU subject to § 63.480(i)(1) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for the EPPU.
(
2
) Owners or operators of an affected source designated as a new affected source under § 63.480(i)(2)(i) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for the affected source.
(
3
) Owners and operators of any emission point (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.502) subject to § 63.480(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for those emission points.
(vi) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.184, each owner or operator must submit the Fenceline Monitoring Reports required by § 63.182(e) on a quarterly basis following the procedures specified in § 63.182(e).
(8)
Operating permit application.
An owner or operator who submits an operating permit application instead of an Emissions Averaging Plan or a Precompliance Report shall include the following information with the operating permit application:
(i) The information specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section for points included in an emissions average; and
(ii) The information specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, Precompliance Report, as applicable.
(f)
Alternative monitoring parameters.
The owner or operator of an affected source who has been directed by any section of this subpart, or any section of another subpart referenced by this subpart, that expressly references this paragraph (f) or § 63.151(f) to set unique monitoring parameters, or who requests approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 63.484 for storage vessels, § 63.114 for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.489 for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.497 for back-end process operations, or § 63.143 for process wastewater shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section in the Precompliance Report, as required by paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The owner or operator shall retain for a period of 5 years each record required by paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.
(1) The required information shall include a description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the recovery device, control device, or pollution prevention measure is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limit, percent reduction, or nominal efficiency, and
an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).
(2) The required information shall include a description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that the owner or operator will establish a level for the monitored parameter as part of the Notification of Compliance Status report required in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, unless this information has already been included in the operating permit application.
(3) The required information shall include a description of the proposed monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting system, to include the frequency and content of monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. Further, the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting system shall be included if either condition in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (f)(3)(ii) of this section is met:
(i) If monitoring and recordkeeping is not continuous, or
(ii) If reports of daily average values will not be included in Periodic Reports when the monitored parameter value is above the maximum level or below the minimum level as established in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status.
(g)
Alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping.
An owner or operator choosing not to implement the continuous parameter operating and recordkeeping provisions listed in § 63.485 for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.486 for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.493 for back-end process operations, and § 63.501 for process wastewater, may instead request approval to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping provisions according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section. Requests shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section, if not already included in the operating permit application, and shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) and (g)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The provisions in § 63.8(f)(5)(i) shall govern the review and approval of requests.
(2) An owner or operator of an affected source that does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of measuring parameter values at least once every 15 minutes and that does not generate continuous records may request approval to use a nonautomated system with less frequent monitoring, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The requested system shall include manual reading and recording of the value of the relevant operating parameter no less frequently than once per hour. Daily average or batch cycle daily average values shall be calculated from these hourly values and recorded.
(ii) The request shall contain:
(A) A description of the planned monitoring and recordkeeping system;
(B) Documentation that the affected source does not have an automated monitoring and recording system;
(C) Justification for requesting an alternative monitoring and recordkeeping system; and
(D) Demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction that the proposed monitoring frequency is sufficient to represent control or recovery device operating conditions, considering typical variability of the specific process and control or recovery device operating parameter being monitored.
(3) An owner or operator may request approval to use an automated data compression recording system that does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency, but that records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (g)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) The requested system shall be designed to:
(A) Measure the operating parameter value at least once during every 15 minute period;
(B) Except for the monitoring of batch front-end process vents, record at least four values each hour during periods of operation;
(C) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on;
(D) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident;
(E) Calculate daily average or batch cycle daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on all measured data; and
(F) If the daily average is not an excursion, as defined in § 63.505 (g) or (h), the data for that operating day may be converted to hourly average values and the four or more individual records for each hour in the operating day may be discarded.
(ii) The request shall contain:
(A) A description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained;
(B) The method for calculating daily averages and batch cycle daily averages; and
(C) A demonstration that the system meets all criteria in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section.
(4) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring systems according to the procedures specified in § 63.8(f)(4).
(h)
Reduced recordkeeping program.
For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions that would otherwise apply under this subpart. The owner or operator shall retain for a period of 5 years each record required by paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average or the batch cycle daily average value, and is not required to retain more frequent monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(vi) of this section are met. An owner or operator electing to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(xii) of this section, or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the Periodic Report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ix) of this section.
(i) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of normal operation (e.g., a temperature reading of −200 °C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.
(ii) The monitoring system generates, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, a running average of the monitoring values that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this running average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the criteria in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) through (h)(1)(ii)(C) of this section. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.
(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits;
(B) The running average is based on at least six one-hour average values; and
(C) The running average reflects a period of normal operation.
(iii) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of normal operation, except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data is the expected operating condition based on past experience (e.g., pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.
(iv) The monitoring system will alert the owner or operator by an alarm or
other means, if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.
(v) The owner or operator shall verify the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, at the times specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(v)(A) through (h)(1)(v)(C) of this section. The owner or operator shall document that the required verifications occurred.
(A) Upon initial installation.
(B) Annually after initial installation.
(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, which might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.
(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(vi)(A) through (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.
(A) Identification of each parameter, for each item of equipment, for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.
(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s), and how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(v) of this section. The description shall identify the location and format (e.g., on-line storage, log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent superseded description. The description, and the most recent superseded description, shall be retained as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.
(C) A description, and the date, of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to impair its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
(D) Owners and operators subject to paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current. The current description shall, at all times, be retained on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain all superseded descriptions for at least 5 years after the date of their creation. Superseded descriptions shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request) for at least 6 months after their creation. Thereafter, superseded descriptions may be stored off-site.
(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average or batch cycle daily average value, for any operating day when the daily average or batch cycle daily average value is less than the maximum, or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring accomplished during the period prior to the compliance date was required and/or approved by the Administrator.
(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average or batch cycle daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(x) of this section. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.
(ii) If, on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily average or batch cycle daily average values as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average or batch cycle daily average value for each operating day
and shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average or batch cycle daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.
(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, for the duration specified in paragraph (h) of this section. For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of normal operation.
(iv) For the purposes of paragraph (h) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average or batch cycle daily average value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value, except as provided in paragraphs (h)(2)(iv)(A) and (h)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.
(A) [Reserved]
(B) An excused excursion, as described in § 63.505(i), shall not be considered an excursion for the purposes of paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(i)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section, as of January 1, 2012, and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2 and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/erttool.html/
) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.Except as specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section, as of January 1, 2012, and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2 and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/erttool.html/
) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(2) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (i)(1) of this section in paper format.
(3) Beginning no later than July 15, 2024, owners and operators must submit performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, owners and operators must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, owners and operators may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11547, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38076, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 71 FR 20457, Apr. 20, 2006; 76 FR 22593, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43257, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.507
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.480 through 63.481, 63.483(a) through (c), 63.484, 63.485(a) through (k), (m) through (s), (u), 63.486 through 63.487, 63.488(a), (b)(1) through (4), (5)(iv) through (v), (6) through (7), (c) through (i), 63.493 through 63.494, 63.500(a)(1) through (3), (b), 63.501, 63.502(a) through (f), (i), (k) through (m), and 63.503. Where these standards reference another subpart, the cited provisions will be delegated according to the delegation provisions of the referenced subpart. Where these standards reference another subpart and modify the requirements, the requirements shall be modified as described in this subpart. Delegation of the modified requirements will also occur according to the delegation provisions of the referenced subpart.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
(6) Approval of an extension request under § 63.6(i)(4)(ii).
[68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 43261, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.508
Flare requirements.
(a) For any flare that is used to reduce organic HAP emissions from an EPPU, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements in this section in lieu of the requirements of § 63.11(b) and the requirements referenced therein. The owner or operator may also elect to comply with the requirements in this section pursuant to the overlap provisions provided in § 63.481(k)(2). However, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), the provisions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (32) of this section no longer apply. Instead, if an owner or operator reduces organic HAP emissions from an EPPU by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted flare, then the owner or operator must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671, including the provisions in tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. This requirement also applies to any flare using fuel gas from a fuel gas system, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from a EPPU, as determined on an annual average basis. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the following terms are defined in § 63.641 of subpart CC of this part: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam.
(1) §§ 63.487(a)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(i);
(2) § 63.489(b)(2);
(3) § 63.490(a)(1);
(4) §§ 63.491(b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iii);
(5) § 63.494(d);
(6) § 63.496(b)(7)(i)(A);
(7) § 63.497(a)(2);
(8) § 63.498(d)(5)(ii)(E);
(9) § 63.502(k)(1);
(10) §§ 63.504(c)(1) through (c)(3);
(11) § 63.107(h)(9)(i) related to criteria in § 63.11(b);
(12) § 63.113(a)(1);
(13) § 63.114(a)(2);
(14) §§ 63.116(a)(1) through (a)(3);
(15) §§ 63.117(a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii);
(16) § 63.118(f)(5);
(17) The last sentence in § 63.119(e)(1);
(18) §§ 63.120(e)(1) through (e)(6);
(19) §§ 63.122(c)(2) and (g)(3);
(20) § 63.126(b)(2)(i);
(21) § 63.127(a)(2);
(22) §§ 63.128(b)(1) through (b)(3);
(23) §§ 63.129(a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii);
(24) §§ 63.130(a)(2)(i), (c), and (d)(5);
(25) §§ 63.139(c)(3) and (d)(3);
(26) §§ 63.145(j)(1) through (j)(3);
(27) §§ 63.146(b)(7)(i)(A) through (b)(7)(i)(C);
(28) § 63.147(d)(1);
(29) §§ 63.172(d);
(30) §§ 63.180(e)(1) through (e)(3);
(31) § 63.181(g)(1)(iii); and
(32) The phrase “including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame” in § 63.181(g)(2)(i).
(b) The exceptions specified in paragraphs (b) through (o) of § 63.108 apply, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Where the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used, the term “EPPU” applies instead for the purposes of this subpart.
(2) Where the reference “§ 63.100(k)(10)” is used, the reference § 63.481(n) applies instead for the purposes of this subpart.
(3) Where the phrase “Hazardous Organic Chemical Manufacturing” is used, the phrase “Polymers and Resins” applies instead for the purposes of this subpart.
(4) Where the reference “§ 63.152(b)(7) of subpart G of this part” is used, the reference “§ 63.506(e)(5)(xiii)” applies instead for the purposes of this subpart.
(5) Section 63.108(i) does not apply.
[89 FR 43261, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.509
Procedures for determining whether process vents, storage vessels, or wastewater are in chloroprene service.
This section applies beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o). To determine if process vents, storage vessels, or wastewater in a process at affected sources producing neoprene are in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, owners and operators must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable.
(a) For each continuous front-end process vent, each batch front-end process vent, and each back-end process vent in a process at affected sources producing neoprene, owners and operators must measure the flow rate and concentration of chloroprene of each process vent as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Measurements must be made prior to any dilution of the vent streams.
(2) Measurements may be made on the combined vent streams at an elastomer product process unit or for each separate vent stream.
(3) The sampling site shall be after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to the inlet of any control device that is present and prior to release to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, must be used for the selection of the sampling sites. For vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter, sample at one point at the center of the duct.
(4) The gas volumetric flow rate must be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of appendices A-1 and A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate.
(5) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the concentration of chloroprene must be determined using Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part.
(6) You may elect to use ASTM D6348-12 (Reapproved 2020) (incorporated by reference, § 63.14) in lieu of Method 320 of appendix A to this part as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. To comply with this paragraph, Annexes Al through A8 to ASTM
D6348-12 (Reapproved 2020) are mandatory; the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte using Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-12 (Reapproved 2020) Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique); and in order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, the %R must be 70% ≥ R ≤ 130%. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, then the test data is not acceptable for that compound and the test must be repeated for that analyte (
i.e.,
the sampling and/or analytical procedure should be adjusted before a retest). The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound by using the following equation:

# Equation 1 to Paragraph (a)(6)
Reported Results = (Measured Concentration in the Stack × 100)/%R.
(b) For storage vessels in a process at affected sources producing neoprene, owners and operators must determine the concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in the storage vessels by complying with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must measure concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in the storage vessel using Method 624.1 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 136 or preparation by Method SW-846-5030B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and analysis by Method SW-846-8260D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). If owners and operators collect a sample from a pressure vessel, then the owner or operator must maintain the sample under pressure both during and following sampling.
(2) Unless specified by the Administrator, the owner or operator may calculate the concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in the storage vessels if information specific to the fluid stored is available. Information specific to the fluid stored includes concentration data from safety data sheets.
(c) For wastewater in a process at affected sources producing neoprene, owners and operators must measure concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in the storage vessel using Method 624.1 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 136, or preparation by Method SW-846-5030B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and analysis by Method SW-846-8260D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). If owners and operators collect a sample from a pressure vessel, then the owner or operator must maintain the sample under pressure both during and following sampling.
[89 FR 43261, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.510
Process vents, storage vessels, and wastewater that are in chloroprene service—procedures to determine compliance.
This section applies beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o). In order to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards specified in § 63.485(y) (for continuous front-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.487(j) (for batch front-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.494(a)(7) (for back-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.484(u) (for storage vessels in chloroprene service), and § 63.501(a)(10)(iv) (for wastewater in chloroprene service), owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For initial compliance, owners and operators must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) If an owner or operator chooses to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight as specified in § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement at the inlet and outlet of the control device. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, owners and operators may not use a design evaluation. This paragraph does not apply if the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section are met for a previously-
conducted measurement or performance test.
(A) No changes have been made to the process since the time of the measurement or performance test;
(B) The operating conditions and test methods used during measurement or performance test conform to the chloroprene related requirements of this subpart;
(C) The control device and process parameter values established during the previously-conducted measurement or performance test are used to demonstrate continuous compliance with the chloroprene related requirements of this subpart; and
(D) The previously-conducted measurement or performance test was completed within the last 60 months.
(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling sites at each sampling location. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.
(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of chloroprene entering the control device and exiting the control device using Equations 1 and 2 to this paragraph.

# Equations 1 and 2 to Paragraph (a)(2)(iii)
E
,inlet
= K C
,inlet
M Q
inlet
(Eq. 1)
E
,outlet
= K C
,outlet
M Q
outlet
(Eq. 2)
Where:
E
,inlet
, E
,outlet
= Mass rate of chloroprene at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, kilogram per hour.
C
,inlet
, C
,outlet
= Concentration of chloroprene in the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
M = Molecular weight of chloroprene, 88.54 grams per gram-mole.
Q
inlet
, Q
outlet
= Flow rate of the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry standard cubic meter per minute.
K = Constant, 2.494 × 10−6 (parts per million)−1 (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) (kilogram per gram) (minutes per hour), where standard temperature (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) is 20 °C.
(iv) Calculate the percent reduction from the control device using equation 3 to this paragraph. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.113(j)(2) or § 63.119(a)(5)(ii) if the overall reduction of chloroprene is greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight.

# Equation 3 to Paragraph (a)(2)(iv)
Percent reduction = (E
,inlet
−E
,outlet
)/E
,inlet
* 100 (Eq. 3)
Where:
E
,inlet
, E
,outlet
= Mass rate of chloroprene at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, kilogram per hour, calculated using Equations 5 and 6 to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(v) If a new control device is installed, then conduct a performance test of the new device following the procedures in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must establish operating parameter limits by monitoring the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section during the performance test.
(A) Combustion chamber temperature. Determine the average combustion chamber temperature during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.
(B) Flue gas flow rate. Determine the average flue gas flow rate during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.
(viii) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a control device other than a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the operating parameters that are planned to be monitored during the performance test prior to establishing operating parameter limits for the control device.
(3) If an owner or operator chooses to reduce emissions of chloroprene by
venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 1 ppmv as specified in § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Install an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B to continuously monitor the chloroprene concentration at the exit of the control device. Comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2450(j) for CEMS.
(ii) If the owner or operator does not install a CEMS under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Conduct an initial performance test at the outlet of the control device that is used to comply with the concentration requirement.
(B) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. If the non-flare control device is a combustion device, correct the chloroprene concentration to 3 percent oxygen according to § 63.116(c)(iii)(B), except “TOC or organic HAP” and “TOC (minus methane and ethane) or organic HAP” in the Variables Cc and Cm must be replaced with “chloroprene”. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) if the chloroprene concentration is less than 1 ppmv.
(C) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.
(4) If owners and operators choose to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process as specified in § 63.113(j)(2), then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the mass emission limit requirement at the outlet of the control device.
(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling site. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.
(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of chloroprene exiting the control device using Equation 2 to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.113(j)(2) if the chloroprene from all process vents (controlled and uncontrolled) within the process is less than 5 pounds per year when combined.
(iv) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.
(b) For continuous compliance, owners and operators must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) If you choose to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 1 ppmv as specified in § 63.113(j)(2) or § 63.119(a)(5)(ii) of subpart G of this part, and you choose to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then continuously monitor the chloroprene concentration at the exit of the control device using an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B and § 63.2450(j). If an owner or operator uses an FTIR CEMS, then the owner or operator does not need to conduct the performance testing required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section or the operating parameter
monitoring required in paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section.
(3) Conduct a performance test no later than 60 months after the previous performance test and reestablish operating parameter limits following the procedures in paragraph (a)(2) through (4) of this section. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, owners and operators may not use a design evaluation.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148, and the owner or operator must meet the operating parameter limits specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section and the requirements in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section.
(i) Minimum combustion chamber temperature, equal to the average combustion chamber temperature measured during the most recent performance test. Determine combustion chamber temperature with a temperature sensor with a minimum accuracy of at least ±1 percent over the normal range of temperature measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or 2.8 degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. Compliance with the minimum combustion chamber temperature operating limit must be determined continuously on a 1-hour block basis.
(ii) Maximum flue gas flow rate, equal to the average flue gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test. Determine flue gas flow rate with a flow sensor with a minimum accuracy of at least ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured, or 280 liters per minute (10 cubic feet per minute), whichever is greater. Compliance with the maximum flue gas flow rate operating limit must be determined continuously on a 1-hour block basis.
(iii) The owner or operator must maintain the thermal oxidizer in accordance with good combustion practices that ensure proper combustion. Good combustion practices include, but are not limited to, proper burner maintenance, proper burner alignment, proper fuel to air distribution and mixing, routine inspection, and preventative maintenance.
(6) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a control device other than a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148, and the owner or operator must monitor the operating parameters identified in paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section and meet the established operating parameter limits to ensure continuous compliance. The frequency of monitoring and averaging time will be determined based upon the information provided to the Administrator.
[89 FR 43262, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart U of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart U Affected Sources
Reference
Applies to subpart U
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)
Yes
§ 63.482 specifies definitions in addition to or that supersede definitions in § 63.2.
§ 63.1(a)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(3)
Yes
§ 63.481(f) through (k) and § 63.160(b) identify those standards which may apply in addition to the requirements of subparts U and H of this part, and specify how compliance shall be achieved.
§ 63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Subpart U (this table) specifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to subpart U.
§ 63.1(a)(5)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.1(a)(6)-(8)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(9)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.1(a)(10)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(11)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(12)-(14)
Yes.
§ 63.1(b)(1)
No
§ 63.480(a) contains specific applicability criteria.
§ 63.1(b)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.1(b)(3)
No
§ 63.480(b) provides documentation requirements for EPPUs not considered affected sources.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Yes
Subpart U (this table) specifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to subpart U.
§ 63.1(c)(2)
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart U.
§ 63.1(c)(3)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.1(c)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.1(c)(5)
Yes
Except that affected sources are not required to submit notifications that are not required by subpart U.
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Yes
§ 63.1(d)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.1(e)
Yes.
§ 63.2
Yes
§ 63.482 specifies those subpart A definitions that apply to subpart U.
§ 63.3
Yes.
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(3)
Yes.
§ 63.4(a)(4)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.4(a)(5)
Yes.
§ 63.4(b)
Yes.
§ 63.4(c)
Yes.
§ 63.5(a)(1)
Yes
Except the terms “source” and “stationary source” should be interpreted as having the same meaning as “affected source”.
§ 63.5(a)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.5(b)(1)
Yes
Except § 63.480(i) defines when construction or reconstruction is subject to new source standards.
§ 63.5(b)(2)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.5(b)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.5(b)(4)
Yes
Except that the Initial Notification and § 63.9(b) requirements do not apply.
§ 63.5(b)(5)
Yes.
§ 63.5(b)(6)
Yes
Except that § 63.480(i) defines when construction or reconstruction is subject to the new source standards.
§ 63.5(c)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.5(d)(1)(i)
Yes
Except that the references to the Initial Notification and § 63.9(b)(5) do not apply.
§ 63.5(d)(1)(ii)
Yes
Except that § 63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H) does not apply.
§ 63.5(d)(1)(iii)
No
§ 63.506(e)(5) and § 63.502(f) specify Notification of Compliance Status requirements.
§ 63.5(d)(2)
No.
§ 63.5(d)(3)
Yes
Except § 63.5(d)(3)(ii) does not apply, and equipment leaks subject to § 63.502 are exempt.
§ 63.5(d)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.5(e)
Yes.
§ 63.5(f)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.5(f)(2)
Yes
Except that where § 63.9(b)(2) is referred to, the owner or operator need not comply.
§ 63.6(a)
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(1)
No
The dates specified in § 63.481(b) apply, instead.
§ 63.6(b)(2)
No.
§ 63.6(b)(3)
No.
§ 63.6(b)(4)
No.
§ 63.6(b)(5)
No.
§ 63.6(b)(6)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(b)(7)
No.
§ 63.6(c)(1)
Yes
§ 63.481 specifies the compliance date.
§ 63.6(c)(2)
No.
§ 63.6(c)(3)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(c)(4)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(c)(5)
Yes.
§ 63.6(d)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
No
See § 63.483(a) for general duty requirement. Any cross reference to § 63.6(e)(1)(i) in any other general provision incorporated by reference shall be treated as a cross reference to § 63.483(a).
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
No
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
No
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)(3)
No
§ 63.6(f)(1)
No
§ 63.6(f)(2)
Yes
Except 63.7(c), as referred to in § 63.6(f)(2)(iii)(D) does not apply, and except that § 63.6(f)(2)(ii) does not apply to equipment leaks subject to § 63.502.
§ 63.6(f)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.6(g)
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)
No
Subpart U does not require opacity and visible emission standards.
§ 63.6(i)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.6(i)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.6(i)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.6(i)(4)(i)(A)
Yes.
§ 63.6(i)(4)(i)(B)
No
Dates are specified in § 63.481(e) and § 63.506(e)(3)(i).
§ 63.6(i)(4)(ii)
No.
§ 63.6(i)(5)-(14)
Yes.
§ 63.6(i)(15)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(i)(16)
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
No.
§ 63.506(e)(5) specifies the submittal dates of performance test results for all emission points except equipment leaks; for equipment leaks, compliance demonstration results are reported in the Periodic Reports.
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)
No
§ 63.504(a)(4) specifies notification requirements.
§ 63.7(c)
No
Except if the owner or operator chooses to submit an alternative nonopacity emission standard for approval under § 63.6(g).
§ 63.7(d)
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
No
See § 63.504(a)(1). Any cross-reference to § 63.7(e)(1) in any other general provision incorporated by reference shall be treated as a cross-reference to § 63.504(a)(1).
§ 63.7(e)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(3)
No
Subpart U specifies requirements.
§ 63.7(e)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.7(f)
Yes
Except that § 63.144(b)(5)(iii)(A)
(B) shall apply for process wastewater. Also, since a site specific test plan is not required, the notification deadline in § 63.7(f)(2)(i) shall be 60 days prior to the performance test, and in § 63.7(f)(3) approval or disapproval of the alternative test method shall not be tied to the site specific test plan.
§ 63.7(g)
Yes
Except that the requirements in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply instead of references to the Notification of Compliance Status report in 63.9(h). In addition, equipment leaks subject to § 63.502 are not required to conduct performance tests.
§ 63.7(h)
Yes
Except § 63.7(h)(4)(ii) is not applicable, since the site-specific test plans in § 63.7(c)(2) are not required.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
No.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
No
[Reserved].
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2)
No
Subpart U specifies locations to conduct monitoring.
§ 63.8(b)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
No
For all emission points except equipment leaks, comply with § 63.506(b)(1)(i)(B); for equipment leaks, comply with § 63.181(g)(2)(iii).
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.8(c)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
No
§ 63.505 specifies monitoring frequency; not applicable to equipment leaks, because § 63.502 does not require continuous monitoring systems.
§ 63.8(c)(5)-(8)
No.
§ 63.8(d)
No.
§ 63.8(e)
No.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(3)
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)(4)(i)
No
Timeframe for submitting request is specified in § 63.506(f) or (g); not applicable to equipment leaks, because § 63.502 (through reference to subpart H) specifies acceptable alternative methods.
§ 63.8(f)(4)(ii)
No
Contents of request are specified in § 63.506(f) or (g).
§ 63.8(f)(4)(iii)
No.
§ 63.8(f)(5)(i)
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)(5)(ii)
No.
§ 63.8(f)(5)(iii)
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)(6)
No
Subpart U does not require CEM's.
§ 63.8(g)
No
Data reduction procedures specified in § 63.506(d) and (h); not applicable to equipment leaks.
§ 63.9(a)
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)
No
Subpart U does not require an initial notification.
§ 63.9(c)
Yes.
§ 63.9(d)
Yes.
§ 63.9(e)
No
§ 63.504(a)(4) specifies notification deadline.
§ 63.9(f)
No
Subpart U does not require opacity and visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)
No.
§ 63.9(h)
No
§ 63.506(e)(5) specifies Notification of Compliance Status requirements.
§ 63.9(i)
Yes.
§ 63.9(j)
Yes
For change in major source status only.
§ 63.9(k)
Yes.
§ 63.10(a)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
No
§ 63.506(a) specifies record retention requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(2)
No
Subpart U specifies recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
No
§ 63.480(b) requires documentation of sources that are not affected sources.
§ 63.10(c)
No
§ 63.506 specifies recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(2)
No
§ 63.506(e)(5) specifies performance test reporting requirements; not applicable to equipment leaks.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart U does not require opacity and visible emission standards.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Yes
63.10(d)(5)
No
§ 63.10(e)
No
§ 63.506 specifies reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(f)
Yes
§ 63.11
Yes
Except for flares subject to § 63.508, § 63.11(b) specifies requirements for flares used to comply with provisions of this subpart. § 63.504(c) contains the requirements to conduct compliance demonstrations for flares subject to this subpart that are not subject to § 63.508. § 63.11(c), (d), and (e) specifies requirements for an alternative work practice for equipment leaks.
§ 63.12
Yes
Except that the authority of § 63.503(i) and the authority of § 63.177 (for equipment leaks) will not be delegated to States.
§§ 63.13-63.15
Yes
[66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 20457, Apr. 20, 2006; 73 FR 78213, Dec. 22, 2008; 85 FR 73891, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 43264, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart U of Part 63—Applicability of Subparts F, G,

# H of This Part to Subpart U Affected Sources
Reference
Applies to Subpart U
Comment
Applicable section of Subpart U
Subpart F:
§ 63.100
No
§ 63.101
Yes
Several definitions from § 63.101 are referenced in § 63.482
§ 63.482.
§§ 63.102-63.103
No
§§ 63.104-63.105
Yes
§§ 63.501 and 63.502.
§§ 63.106-63.109
No
Subpart G:
§ 63.110
No
§ 63.111
Yes
Several definitions from § 63.111 reference in § 63.482
§ 63.482.
§ 63.112
No
§§ 63.113-63.118
Yes
With the differences noted in § 63.485 (b) through § 63.485(k)
§§ 63.119-63.123
Yes
With the differences noted in § 63.484(c) through 63.484(s)
63.484.
§§ 63.124-63.125
No
[Reserved.]
§§ 63.126-63.130
No
§ 63.131
[Reserved]
§§ 63.133-63.147
Yes
With the differences noted in § 63.501(a)(1) through (19)
§ 63.501.
§§ 63.148-63.149
Yes
With the differences noted in §§ 63.484(c) through (s) and 63.501(a)(1) through (23)
§§ 63.484 and 63.501.
§ 63.150(a) through (f)
No
§ 63.150(g)(1) and (2)
No
§ 63.150(g)(3)
Yes
§ 63.503(g)(3).
§ 63.150(g)(4)
No
§ 63.150(g)(5)
Yes
§ 63.503(g)(5).
§ 63.150(h)(1) and (2)
No
§ 63.150(h)(3)
Yes
§ 63.503(h)(3).
§ 63.150(h)(4)
No
§ 63.150(h)(5)
Yes
§ 63.503(h)(5).
§ 63.150(i) through (o)
No
§§ 63.151-63.152
No
Subpart H:
§§ 63.160-63.182
Yes
Subpart U affected sources shall comply with all requirements of subpart H of this part, with the differences noted in § 63.502
§ 63.502.
[66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 22594, Apr. 21, 2011]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart U of Part 63—Group 1 Storage Vessels at Existing Affected Sources
Vessel capacity
(cubic meters)
Vapor pressure
a
(kilopascals)
75 ≤capacity
151
≥13.1
151 ≤capacity
≥5.2
a
Maximum true vapor pressure of total organic HAP at storage temperature.
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart U of Part 63—Group 1 Storage Vessels at New Sources
Vessel capacity
(cubic meters)
Vapor Pressure
a
(kilopascals)
38 ≤capacity
151
≥13.1
151 ≤capacity
≥0.7
a
Maximum true vapor pressure of total organic HAP at storage temperature.
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart U of Part 63—Known Organic HAP Emitted From the Production of Elastomer Products
[Known organic HAP emitted from the production of elastomer products]
Organic HAP/Chemical name (CAS No.)
Elastomer product/subcategory
BR
EPI
EPR
HYP
NEO
NBL
NBR
PBR/SBRS
PSR
SBL
SBRE
Acrylonitrile (107131)
X
X
1,3 Butadiene (106990)
X
X
X
X
X
Carbon Disulfide
X
X
X
X
X
Carbon Tetrachloride (56235)
X
Chlorobenzene (108907)
X
Chloroform (67663)
X
Chloroprene (126998)
X
Epichlorohydrin (106898)
X
Ethylbenzene (100414)
X
X
Ethylene Dichloride (107062)
X
Ethylene Oxide (75218)
X
X
Formaldehyde (50000)
X
X
Hexane (110543)
X
X
X
Methanol (67561)
X
X
Methyl Chloride (74873)
X
X
Propylene Oxide (75569)
X
Styrene (100425)
X
X
X
Toluene (108883)
X
X
X
X
Xylenes (1330207)
X
Xylene (m-) (108383)
X
Xylene (o-) (95476)
X
Xylene (p-) (106423)
X
CAS No. = Chemical Abstract Service Number.
BR = Butyl Rubber.
EPI = Epichlorohydrin Rubber.
EPR = Ethylene Propylene Rubber.
HYP = Hypalon
TM
.
NEO = Neoprene.
NBL = Nitrile Butadiene Latex.
NBR = Nitrile Butadiene Rubber.
PBR/SBRS = Polybutadiene and Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Solution.
PSR = Polysulfide Rubber.
SBL = Styrene Butadiene Latex.
SBRE = Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Emulsion.
[76 FR 22594, Apr. 21, 2011]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart U of Part 63—Group 1 Batch Front-End Process Vents and Aggregate Batch Vent Streams—Monitoring, Recordkeeping, and Reporting Requirements
Control/recovery device
Parameter to be monitored
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for monitored parameters
Thermal incinerators other than those used for vents in chloroprene service
Firebox temperature
a
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average firebox temperature measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average firebox temperature as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average temperatures that are below the minimum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
Thermal oxidizers used for vents in chloroprene service
a. Combustion chamber temperature
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average firebox temperature measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the 1-hour block average firebox temperature as specified in § 63.510(b)(5)(i).
4. Report all 1-hour block average temperatures that are below the minimum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
b. Flue gas flow rate
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average flue gas flow rate measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the 1-hour block average flue gas flow rate as specified in § 63.510(b)(5)(ii).
4. Report all 1-hour block average flow rates that are above the maximum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
Catalytic incinerator
Temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average upstream and downstream temperatures and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average upstream temperature and temperature difference across catalyst bed as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average upstream temperatures that are below the minimum upstream value established in the NCS or operating permit—PR.
d
e
5. Reporting all batch cycle daily average temperature differences across the catalyst bed that are below the minimum difference established in the NCS or operating permit—PR.
d
e
6. Report all instances when monitoring data are not collected.
Boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity less than 44 megawatts and where the batch front—end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are “not” introduced with or used as the primary fuel
Firebox temperature
a
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average firebox temperature measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average firebox temperature as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
d
4. Report all batch cycle daily average temperatures that are below the minimum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
Flare (if meeting the requirements of § 63.487(a)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(i))
Presence of a flame at the pilot light
1. Hourly records of whether the monitor was continuously operating during light batch emission episodes selected for control and whether a flame was continuously present at the pilot light during each hour.
2. Record and report the presence of a flame at the pilot light over the full period of the compliance determination—NCS.
c
3. Record the times and durations of all periods during batch emission episodes when all flames at the pilot light of a flare are absent or the monitor is not operating.
4. Report the times and durations of all periods during batch emission episodes selected for control when all flames at the pilot light of a flare are absent—PR.
d
Flare (if meeting the requirements of § 63.487(a)(1)(iii) or (b)(1)(iii))
The parameters are specified in paragraphs (b) through (o) of § 63.108 and § 63.508
1. Records as specified in paragraph (m) of § 63.108 and § 63.508.
2. Report information as specified in in paragraph (l) of § 63.108 and § 63.508—PR.
Scrubber for halogenated batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams (Note: Controlled by a combustion device other than a flare)
a. pH of scrubber effluent, and
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average pH of the scrubber effluent measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average pH of the scrubber effluent as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average pH values of the scrubber effluent that are below the minimum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when insufficient monitoring data are collected—PR.
d
e
b. Scrubber liquid and gas flow rates (§ 63.489(b)(4)(ii))
1. Records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the scrubber liquid/gas ratio averaged over the full period of the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average scrubber liquid/gas ratio as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average scrubber liquid/gas ratios that are below the minimum value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when insufficient monitoring data are collected—PR.
d
e
Absorber
f
a. Exit temperature of the absorbing liquid, and
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average exit temperature of the absorbing liquid measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average exit temperature of the absorbing liquid as specified in § 63.491(e)(2) for each batch cycle.
4. Report all the batch cycle daily average exit temperatures of the absorbing liquid that are above the maximum operating temperature established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
b. Exit specific gravity of the absorbing liquid
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average exit specific gravity measured during the performance test—NCS.
3. Record the batch cycle daily average exit specific gravity as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average exit specific gravity values that are below the minimum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
Condenser
f
Exit (product side) temperature
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1)
b
2. Record and report the average exit temperature measured during the performance test—NCS.
3. Record the batch cycle daily average exit temperature as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average exit temperatures that are above the maximum operating value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
Carbon adsorber
f
a. Total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure gauge or absolute) during carbon bed regeneration cycle(s), and
1. Record of total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure for each carbon bed regeneration cycle.
2. Record and report the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure during each carbon bed regeneration cycle during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Report all carbon bed regeneration cycles when the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure is above the maximum value established in the NCS or operating permit—PR.
d
e
b. Temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle(s)
1. Record the temperature of the carbon bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle(s).
2. Record and report the temperature of the carbon bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle(s) measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Report all carbon bed regeneration cycles when the temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration, or within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle(s), is above the maximum value established in the NCS or operating permit—PR.
d
e
Outlet HAP or TOC concentration
For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.489(b)(10), the owner or operator must record each outlet HAP or TOC concentration measured according to §§ 63.489(b)(10)(i) and (b)(10)(ii).
Adsorbent replacement
1. For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.489(b)(10), the owner or operator must record date and time the adsorbent was last replaced.
Breakthrough
For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.489(b)(10), the owner or operator must:
1. Record breakthrough limit and bed life established according to § 63.489(b)(10)(i).
2. Report the date of each instance when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.101, is detected between the first and second adsorber and the adsorber is not replaced according to § 63.489(b)(10)(iii)(A)—PR.
g
Sorbent injection
a. Sorbent injection rate
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average sorbent injection rate measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average sorbent injection rate as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average sorbent injection rates that are below the minimum value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when insufficient monitoring data are collected—PR.
d
e
b. Carrier gas flow rate
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report the average carrier gas flow rate measured during the performance test—NCS.
c
3. Record the batch cycle daily average carrier gas flow rate as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average carrier gas flow rates that are below the minimum value established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when insufficient monitoring data are collected—PR.
d
e
All control devices
a. Diversion to the atmosphere from the control device
or
1. Hourly records of whether the flow indicator was operating during batch emission episodes selected for control and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as specified in § 63.491(e)(3).
2. Record and report the times of all periods during batch emission episodes selected for control when emissions are diverted through a bypass line, or the flow indicator is not operating—PR.
d
3. For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), record and report the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours—PR.
d
b. Monthly inspections of sealed valves
1. Records that monthly inspections were performed as specified in § 63.491(e)(4)(i).
2. Record and report all monthly inspections that show that valves are in the diverting position or that a seal has been broken—PR.
d
3. For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), record and report the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours—PR.
d
Absorber, condenser, and carbon adsorber (as an alternative to the above)
Concentration level or reading indicated by an organic monitoring device at the outlet of the recovery device
1. Continuous records as specified in § 63.491(e)(1).
b
2. Record and report and average batch vent concentration level or reading measured during the performance test—NCS.
3. Record the batch cycle daily average concentration level or reading as specified in § 63.491(e)(2).
4. Report all batch cycle daily average concentration levels or readings that are above the maximum values established in the NCS or operating permit and all instances when monitoring data are not collected—PR.
d
e
a
Monitor may be installed in the firebox or in the duct work immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange is encountered.
b
“Continuous records” is defined in § 63.111.
c
NCS = Notification of Compliance Status described in § 63.506(e)(5).
d
PR = Periodic Reports described in § 63.506(e)(6).
e
The periodic reports shall include the duration of periods when monitoring data are not collected as specified in § 63.506(e)(6)(iii)(C).
f
Alternatively, these devices may comply with the organic monitoring device provisions listed at the end of this table.
[89 FR 43264, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart U of Part 63—Operating Parameters for Which Monitoring Levels Are Required To Be Established for Continuous and Batch Front-End Process Vents and Aggregate Batch Vent Streams
Control/recovery device
Parameters to be monitored
Established operating parameter(s)
Thermal incinerator
Firebox temperature
Minimum temperature.
Thermal oxidizers used for vents in chloroprene service
Combustion chamber temperature
Minimum temperature.
Thermal oxidizers used for vents in chloroprene service
Flue gas flow rate
Maximum flue gas flow rate.
Catalytic incinerator
Temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed
Minimum upstream temperature; and minimum temperature difference across the catalyst bed.
Boiler or process heater
Firebox temperature
Minimum temperature.
Scrubber for halogenated vents
pH of scrubber effluent; and scrubber liquid and gas flow rates [§ 63.489(b)(4)(ii)]
Minimum pH; and minimum liquid/gas ratio.
Absorber
Exit temperature of the absorbing liquid; and exit specific gravity of the absorbing liquid
Maximum temperature; and maximum specific gravity.
Condenser
Exit temperature
Maximum temperature.
Carbon adsorber
Total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute)
a
during carbon bed regeneration cycle; and temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration (and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle(s))
Maximum flow or pressure; and maximum temperature.
Sorbent injection
Sorbent injection rate
Minimum injection rate.
Sorbent injection
Carrier gas flow rate
Minimum carrier gas flow rate.
Other devices (or as an alternate to the above)
b
HAP concentration level or reading at outlet of device
Maximum HAP concentration or reading.
a
25 to 50 mm (absolute) is a common pressure level obtained by pressure swing absorbers.
b
Concentration is measured instead of an operating parameter.
[89 FR 43267, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart U of Part 63—Summary of Compliance Alternative Requirements for the Back-End Process Provisions
Compliance alternative
Parameter to be monitored
Requirements
Compliance Using Stripping Technology, Demonstrated through Periodic Sampling [§ 63.495(b)]
Residual organic HAP content in each sample of crumb or latex
(1) If a stripper operated in batch mode is used, at least one representative sample is to be taken from every batch.
(2) If a stripper operated in continuous mode is used, at least one representative sample is to be taken each operating day.
Quantity of Material (weight of latex or dry crumb rubber) represented by each sample
(1) Acceptable methods of determining this quantity are production records, measurement of stream characteristics, and engineering calculations.
Compliance Using Stripping Technology, Demonstrated through Stripper Parameter Monitoring [§ 63.495(c)]
At a minimum, temperature, pressure, steaming rates (for steam strippers), and some parameter that is indicative of residence time
(1) Establish stripper operating parameter levels for each grade in accordance with § 63.505(e).
(2) Continuously monitor stripper operating parameters.
(3) If hourly average parameters are outside of the established operating parameter levels, a crumb or latex sample shall be taken in accordance with § 63.495(c)(3)(ii).
Determining Compliance Using Control or Recovery Devices [§ 63.496]
Parameters to be monitored are described in Table 3 of subpart G of this part
Comply with requirements listed in Table 3 of subpart G of this part, except for the requirements for halogenated vent stream scrubbers.
[65 FR 38093, June 19, 2000]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 9

# Table 9 to Subpart U of Part 63—Routine Reports Required by This Subpart
Reference
Description of report
Due Date
§ 63.506(b) and subpart A
Refer to § 63.506(b), Table 1 of this subpart, and to subpart A
Refer to subpart A.
§ 63.506(e)(3)
Precompliance Report
a
1. Existing affected sources: December 19, 2000.
2. New affected sources: with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction.
§ 63.506(e)(4)
Emissions Averaging Plan
September 19, 2000.
§ 63.506(e)(4)(iv)
Updates to Emissions Averaging Plan
120 days prior to making the change necessitating the update.
§ 63.506(e)(5)
Notification of Compliance Status
b
Within 150 days after the compliance date.
§ 63.506(e)(6)
Periodic reports
Semiannually, no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period. See § 63.506(e)(6)(i) for the due date for this report.
§ 63.506(e)(6)(xi)
Quarterly for reports Emissions Averaging
No later than 60 days after the end of each quarter. First report is due with the Notification of Compliance Status.
§ 63.506(e)(6)(xii)
Quarterly reports upon request of the Administrator
No later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.
§ 63.506(e)(7)(i)
Storage Vessels Notification of Inspection
At least 30 days prior to the refilling of each storage vessel or the inspection of each storage vessel.
§ 63.506(e)(7)(ii)
Requests for Approval of a Nominal Control Efficiency for Use in Emissions Averaging
Initial submittal is due with the Emissions Averaging Plan; later submittals are made at the discretion of the owner or operator as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(ii)(B).
§ 63.506(e)(7)(iii)
Notification of Change in the Primary Product
For notification under § 63.480(f)(3)(ii)—notification submittal date at the discretion of the owner or operator.
c
For notification under § 63.480(f)(4)(ii)—within 6 months of making the determination.
§ 63.506(e)(7)(vi)
Fenceline Monitoring Reports
Quarterly, no later than 45 calendar days following the end of each quarterly reporting period. See § 63.182(e) of subpart H of this part for the due date for this report.
a
There may be two versions of this report due at different times; one for equipment subject to § 63.502 and one for other emission points subject to this subpart.
b
There will be two versions of this report due at different times; one for equipment subject to § 63.502 and one for other emission points subject to this subpart.
c
Note that the EPPU remains subject to this subpart until the notification under § 63.480(f)(3)(i) is made.
[66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 43268, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. U, Table 10

# Table 10 to Subpart U of Part 63—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin and Furan Congener
Toxic
equivalency factor
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
Octachlorodibenzofuran
0.0003
[89 FR 43268, May 16, 2024]
Subpart V [Reserved]

# Subpart W—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Epoxy Resins Production and Non-Nylon Polyamides Production

# Source:
60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.520
Applicability and designation of sources.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all existing, new, and reconstructed manufacturers of basic liquid epoxy resins (BLR) and manufacturers of wet strength resins (WSR) that are located at a plant site that is a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Clean Air Act. Research and development facilities, as defined in § 63.522, are exempt from the provisions of this subpart. The affected source is also defined in § 63.522. If a change occurs to an existing source that does not constitute reconstruction then the additions have to meet the existing source requirements of the MACT standards. Any reconstruction of an existing source, or construction of a new source, must meet the new source standard. Affected sources are also subject to certain requirements of subpart A of this part, as specified in Table 1 of this subpart.
§ 63.521
Compliance schedule.
(a) Owners or operators of existing affected BLR and WSR sources shall comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart within 3 years of the promulgation date.
(b) New and reconstructed sources subject to this subpart shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup.
(c) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the requirements in § 63.523(d), § 63.524(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c), § 63.525(a), (e), (j), (k), and (l), § 63.527(f) and (g), and § 63.528(a)(4) upon initial startup or on July 15, 2027, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the requirements in § 63.523(d), § 63.524(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c), § 63.525(a), (e), (j), (k), and (l), § 63.527(f) and (g), and § 63.528(a)(4) upon initial startup, or on July 15, 2024, whichever is later.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43268, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.522
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or any official designee of the Administrator.
Affected source
means all HAP emission points within a facility that are related to the production of BLR or WSR, including process vents, storage tanks, wastewater systems, equipment leaks, and heat exchange systems.
Basic liquid epoxy resins (BLR)
means resins made by reacting epichlorohydrin and bisphenol A to form diglycidyl ether of bisphenol-A (DGEBPA).
Batch emission episode
means a discrete venting episode that may be associated with a single unit operation. For example, a displacement of vapor resulting from the charging of a vessel with HAP will result in a discrete emission episode that will last through the duration of the charge and will have an average flow rate equal to the rate of the charge. If the vessel is then heated, there will also be another discrete emission episode resulting from the expulsion of expanded vessel vapor space. Both emission episodes may occur in the same vessel or unit operation. There are possibly other emission episodes that may occur from the vessel or other process equipment, depending on process operations.
Batch process
refers to a discontinuous process involving the bulk movement of material through sequential manufacturing steps. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties of a system vary with time. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not typically occur simultaneously in a batch process.
Closed-vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device or back into the process.
Continuous process
means a process where the inputs and outputs flow continuously throughout the duration of the process. Continuous processes are typically steady-state.
Dioxins and furans
means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Drain system
means the system used to convey wastewater streams from a process unit, product storage tank, or feed storage tank to a waste management unit. The term includes all process drains and junction boxes, together with their associated sewer lines and other junction boxes, manholes, sumps, and lift stations, down to the receiving waste management unit. A segregated stormwater sewer system, which is a drain and collection system designed and operated for the sole purpose of collecting rainfall-runoff at a facility, and which is segregated from all other drain systems, is excluded from this definition.
Equipment leaks
means, before July 15, 2027, emissions of hazardous air pollutants from a connector, pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, or instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service. On and after July 15, 2027, equipment leaks means emissions of hazardous air pollutants from a connector, pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, or instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service.
Heat Exchange System
means any cooling tower system or once-through cooling water system (
e.g.,
river or pond water). A heat exchange system can include more than one heat exchanger and can include an entire recirculating or once-through cooling system.
In organic hazardous air pollutant
or
in organic HAP service
means that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP's as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service.
Pressure relief device or valve
means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief
valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.
Process vent
means a point of emission from a unit operation. Typical process vents include condenser vents, vacuum pumps, steam ejectors, and atmospheric vents from reactors and other process vessels.
Production-based emission rate
means a ratio of the amount of HAP emitted to the amount of BLR or WSR produced.
Research and development facility
means laboratory operations whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a de minimis manner.
Storage tank
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain one or more HAP compounds.
Unit operation
means those processing steps that occur within distinct equipment that are used, among other things, to prepare reactants, facilitate reactions, separate and purify products, and recycle materials. There may be several emission episodes within a single unit operation.
Waste management unit
means any component, piece of equipment, structure, or transport mechanism used in storing, treating, or disposing of wastewater streams, or conveying wastewater between storage, treatment, or disposal operations.
Wastewater
means aqueous liquid waste streams exiting equipment at an affected source.
Wastewater system
means a system made up of a drain system and one or more waste management units.
Wet strength resins (WSR)
means polyamide/ epichlorohydrin condensates which are used to increase the tensile strength of paper products.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 26497, May 8, 2000; 89 FR 43268, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.523
Standards for basic liquid resins manufacturers.
(a) Owners or operators of existing affected BLR sources shall operate sources such that the rate of emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems combined shall not exceed 130 pounds per 1 million pounds of BLR produced, and comply with the dioxin and furans emissions limit for process vents specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Owners or operators of new or reconstructed affected BLR sources shall reduce uncontrolled emissions from the sum of uncontrolled process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems by 98 percent, or limit the total emissions from these emission points to 5,000 pounds per year.
(1) For process vents, uncontrolled emissions are defined as gaseous emission streams past the last recovery device.
(2) For storage tanks, uncontrolled emissions are defined as emissions calculated according to the methodology specified in § 63.150(g)(3).
(3) For wastewater systems, uncontrolled emissions are the total amount of HAP discharged to the drain system.
(c) Owners or operators of existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR sources shall comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks.
(d) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3), except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c)” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the
term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.
(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 to subpart F of this part or table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is required to consider all hazardous air pollutants.
(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 6 3.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1) of subpart F of this part, the requirements in § 63.527(d) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.528(a), for the purposes of this subpart.
(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.521(c).
(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.
(8) § 63.104(k) does not apply. Instead for each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), owners and operators must not inject water into or dispose of water through any heat exchange system in an affected source if the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.522.
(e) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of a process vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43269, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.524
Standards for wet strength resins manufacturers.
(a) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and except as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, owners or operators of existing affected WSR sources shall either:
(1) Limit the total emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems to 10 pounds per 1 million pounds of wet strength resins produced; or
(2) Comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks.
(3) For each existing affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with both paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section and must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) from each process vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(b) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, owners or operators of new or reconstructed affected WSR sources shall either:
(1) Limit the total emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems to 7 pounds per 1 million pounds of wet strength resins produced; or
(2) Comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks.
(3) For each new or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) from each process
vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(c) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.
(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 of subpart F of this part or Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is required to consider all hazardous air pollutants.
(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in § 63.527(d) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.528(a), for the purposes of this subpart.
(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.521(c).
(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),
(8) § 63.104(k) of subpart F of this part does not apply. Instead for each existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), owners and operators must not inject water into (or dispose of water through) any heat exchange system in an affected source if the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.522.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43269, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.525
Compliance and performance testing.
(a) The owner or operator of any existing affected BLR source shall, in order to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits, determine the emission rate from all process vent, storage tank, and wastewater system emission points using the methods described below. Except as specified in paragraph (l) of this section, compliance tests shall be performed under normal operating conditions. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (m) of this section, the owner or operator shall use the EPA test methods from 40 CFR part 60, listed in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section, to determine emissions from process vents. Testing of process vents on equipment operating as part of a continuous process will consist of conducting three 1-hour runs. Gas stream volumetric flow rates shall be measured every 15 minutes during each 1-hour run. Organic HAP or TOC concentration shall be determined from samples collected in an integrated sample over the duration of each 1-hour test run, or from grab samples collected simultaneously with the flow
rate measurements (every 15 minutes). If an integrated sample is collected for laboratory analysis, the sampling rate shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect variations in flow rate. If the flow of gaseous emissions is intermittent, determination of emissions from process vents shall be performed according to the methods specified in paragraph (e) of this section. For process vents with continuous gas streams, the emission rate used to determine compliance shall be the average emission rate of the 3 test runs. For process vents with intermittent emission streams, the calculated emission rate or the emission rate from a single test run may be used to determine compliance.
(i) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube. A traverse shall be conducted before and after each 1-hour sampling period. No traverse is necessary when using Method 2A or 2D of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine flow rate.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C or 2D of appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter, as appropriate, shall be used for the determination of gas stream volumetric flow rate. If Method 2 or 2C is used, the velocity measurements shall be made at a single point, in conjunction with the traverse, to establish an average velocity across the stack.
(iii) Method 25A and/or Methods 18 and 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, must be used to determine the concentration of HAP in the streams. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.
(iv) Initial determination of de minimis status for process vents may be made by engineering assessment, as specified in § 63.526(a)(1)(iv).
(2) Emissions from wastewater treatment systems shall be determined in accordance with the methods described in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C.
(3) Emissions from storage tanks shall be calculated in accordance with the methods specified in § 63.150(g)(3).
(b) The owner or operator of any existing affected BLR source shall determine a production-based emission rate for each emission point by dividing the emission rate of each emission point by the BLR production rate of the source. The production rate shall be based on normal operations.
(1) The production-based emission rate for process vents shall be calculated by dividing the average emission rate by the average production rate.
(2) The production-based emission rate for storage tanks shall be calculated by dividing annual emissions for each storage tank emission point by the production rate for a one-year period. The production rate shall be calculated using the same data used to calculate the production-based emission rate in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, converted to an annual rate.
(3) The production-based emission rate for wastewater systems shall be calculated by dividing annual emissions for each wastewater system emission point by the production rate for one-year period. The production rate shall be calculated using the same data used to calculate the production-based emission rate in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, converted to an annual rate.
(c) The owner or operator of an existing affected BLR source shall calculate the total emissions per product produced by summing the production-based emissions for all process vent, storage tank, and wastewater system emission points according to the following equation:
E=Σ PV + Σ ST + Σ WW
where:
E = emissions, pounds (lb) HAP per million (MM) lb product;
PV = process vent emissions, lb HAP/MM lb product;
ST = storage tank emissions, lb HAP/MM lb product; and
WW = wastewater system emissions, lb HAP/MM lb product.
The source is in compliance with the standard for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems if the sum of the equation is less than the applicable emission limit from § 63.523(a).
(d) The owner or operator of any new or reconstructed affected BLR source shall demonstrate compliance using the methods described in this section.
(1) Any owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.523(b) by achieving 98 percent control of emissions from process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall perform testing as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to determine controlled and uncontrolled emissions from process vents. Sampling points for determining uncontrolled emissions shall be located based on the definition of uncontrolled process vents in § 63.523(b)(1).
(ii) The owner or operator shall calculate controlled and uncontrolled emissions from storage tanks in accordance with the methods specified in § 63.150(g)(3).
(iii) The owner or operator shall determine controlled and uncontrolled emissions from wastewater systems using the methodology of 40 CFR part 63, appendix C. Uncontrolled emission calculations shall be consistent with the definition of uncontrolled wastewater system emissions in § 63.523(b)(3).
(iv) The owner or operator shall calculate the percent reduction in emissions from process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems combined. The affected source is in compliance if the emission reduction is greater than or equal to 98 percent.
(2) Any owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.523(b) by limiting HAP emissions from process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems to 5,000 pounds per year or less shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Emissions from process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall be determined according to paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section. Emissions shall be converted to annual emissions. Annual emission calculations shall reflect production levels representative of normal operating conditions.
(ii) The owner or operator shall calculate total emissions from all process vent, storage tank, and wastewater system emission points. The affected source is in compliance with the standard if total emissions are less than or equal to 5,000 lb/yr.
(3) To demonstrate compliance with the process vent dioxins and furans emission limit, the owner or operator must use the procedures of paragraph (m) of this section.
(e) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall demonstrate compliance by determining emissions for all process vent, storage tank, and wastewater systems emission points using the methods described in this section. The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed WSR source that is subject to the process vent dioxins and furans emission limit must demonstrate compliance by following the procedures in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(1) Emissions of HAP reactor process vents shall be calculated for each batch emission episode according to the methodologies described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(i) Emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material into or out of the reactor shall be calculated according to the following equation:
ER08MR95.002
where:
E = mass emission rate;
yi = saturated mole fraction of HAP in the vapor phase;
V = volume of gas displaced from the vessel;
R = ideal gas law constant;
T = temperature of the vessel vapor space; absolute;
P
T
= pressure of the vessel vapor space; and
MW = molecular weight of the HAP.
(ii) Emissions from reactor purging shall be calculated using the methodology described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of
this section, except that for purge flow rates greater than 100 standard cubic feet per minute (scfm), the mole fraction of HAP will be assumed to be 25 percent of the saturated value.
(iii) Emissions caused by heating of the reactor vessel shall be calculated according to the following methodology:
ER08MR95.003
where:
E = mass of HAP vapor displaced from the vessel being heated up;
(P
i
)
Tn
= partial pressure of each HAP in the vessel headspace at initial (n = 1) and final (n = 2) temperature;
Pa
1
= initial gas pressure in the vessel;
Pa
2
= final gas pressure; and
MW
HAP
= the average molecular weight of HAP present in the vessel.
The moles of gas displaced is represented by:
ER08MR95.004
where:
Δη = number of lb-moles of gas displaced;
V = volume of free space in the vessel;
R = ideal gas law constant;
Pa
1
= initial gas pressure in the vessel;
Pa
2
= final gas pressure;
T
1
= initial temperature of vessel; and
T
2
= final temperature of vessel.
The initial pressure of the noncondensable gas in the vessel shall be calculated according to the following equation:
ER08MR95.005
where:
Pa
1
= initial partial pressure of gas in the vessel headspace;
P
atm
= atmospheric pressure; and
(P
ic
)
T1
= initial partial pressure of each condensable volatile organic compound (including HAP) in the vessel headspace, at the initial temperature (T
1
).
The average molecular weight of HAP in the displaced gas shall be calculated as follows:
ER08MR95.006
where n is the number of different HAP compounds in the emission stream.
(2) Emissions of HAP from process vents may be measured directly. The EPA Test Methods listed in paragraph (e)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section, from 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 63.524 by direct measurement. Testing shall be performed for every batch emission episode of the unit operation. Gas stream volumetric flow rates shall be measured at 15-minute intervals, or at least once during each batch emission episode. Organic HAP or TOC concentration shall be determined from samples collected in an integrated sample over the duration of each episode, or from grab samples collected simultaneously with the flow rate measurements (every 15 minutes). If an integrated sample is collected for laboratory analysis, the sampling rate shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect variations in flow rate. Test conditions shall represent the normal operating conditions under which the data used to calculate the production rate are taken.
(i) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube. A traverse shall be conducted before and after each sampling period. No
traverse is necessary when using Method 2A or 2D.
(ii) Method 2,2A, 2C or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for the determination of gas stream volumetric flow rate. If Method 2 or 2C is used, the velocity measurements shall be made at a single point than can be used, in conjunction with the traverse, to establish an average velocity across the stack.
(iii) Method 25A and/or Methods 18 and 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, must be used to determine the concentration of HAP in the streams. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.
(iv) The owner or operator may choose to perform tests only during those periods of the episode in which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined, or when the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the episode. The owner or operator who chooses either of these options must develop an emission profile for the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data collected, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used provided the results are still relevant to the current process vent stream conditions.
(v) For batch emission episodes of duration greater than 8 hours, the owner or operator is required to perform a maximum of 8 hours of testing. The test period must include the period of time in which the emission rate is predicted by the emission profile to be greater than average emission rate for the batch emission episode.
(3) To demonstrate compliance with the process vent dioxins and furans emission limit, the owner or operator must use the procedures of paragraph (m) of this section. Testing shall be performed for each unit operation.
(f) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emissions limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall calculate emissions from storage tanks in accordance with the methods specified in § 63.150(g)(3).
(g) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall calculate emissions from wastewater treatment systems (if applicable) in accordance with the methods described in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C.
(h) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall calculate the average amount of WSR product manufactured per batch, using data from performance tests or from emission calculations, as applicable, to determine the average WSR production per-batch production data for an annual period representing normal operating conditions.
(1) The owner or operator shall calculate an average emission rate per batch as the average of the results from the performance tests or calculations. The production-based emission rate shall be calculated by dividing the emissions per batch by the average production per batch.
(2) Compliance shall be determined according to the methodology described in paragraph (c) of this section. The source is in compliance with the standard for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems if the sum of the equation in paragraph (c) of this section is less than the applicable emission limit from § 63.524.
(i) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source or any affected WSR source that is subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part must demonstrate the ability of its specific program to meet the compliance requirements therein to achieve initial compliance.
(j) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), owners and operators of sources as defined in
§ 63.520 shall comply with the requirements of this subpart at all times, except during periods of nonoperation of the source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies.
(k) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), at all times, owners and operators must operate and maintain any source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require owners and operators to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(l) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. Owners and operators must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, owners and operators must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(m) Except as specified in paragraph (m)(7) of this section, to demonstrate compliance with the process vent dioxins and furans emission limit, the owner or operator must conduct a performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(6) of this section. Conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(1) The performance test must consist of three test runs. Collect at least 3 dry standard cubic meters of gas per test run.
(2) Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling sites at the sampling location. The sampling location must be at the outlet of the final control device.
(3) Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2.
(4) Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.
(5) Measure the concentration of each tetra- through octa-chlorinated dioxin and furan congener emitted using Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(i) For each dioxin and furan congener, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 2 to this subpart. For determination of toxic equivalency, zero may be used for congeners with a concentration less than the estimated detection limit (EDL). For congeners with estimated maximum pollutant concentration (EMPC) results, if the value is less than the EDL, zero may be used. Otherwise, the EMPC value must be used in the calculation of toxic equivalency.
(ii) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (m)(5)(i) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins and furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(6) The concentration of dioxins and furans shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen. Use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to determine the oxygen concentration (%O
2d
). Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A must be run concurrently with Method 23 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (C
c
) shall be computed using the following equation:
ER16MY24.067
Where:
C
c
= Concentration of dioxins and furans corrected to 3 percent oxygen, dry basis, nanograms per standard cubic meter.
C
m
= Concentration of dioxins and furans, dry basis, nanograms per standard cubic meter.
%O
2
d = Concentration of oxygen, dry basis, percent by volume.
(7) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when either a boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste, or hazardous waste incinerator, is used for which the owner or operator:
(A) Has been issued a final permit under part 270 of this chapter and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;
(B) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of part 266, subpart H, of this chapter;
(C) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(7)(i)(E) of this section, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) and complies with the requirements of subpart EEE of this part; or
(D) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(7)(i)(E) of this section, complies with subpart EEE of this part, and will submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) by the date the owner or operator would have been required to submit the initial performance test report for this subpart.
(E) The owner and operator may not waive performance testing pursuant to § 63.1207(d)(4) and each performance test required by § 63.1207(d) must show compliance with the dioxins and furans emission limit specified in § 63.523(e) and § 63.524(a)(3) and (b)(3), as applicable.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43270, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.526
Monitoring requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. During each compliance demonstration, maximum or minimum operating parameters, as appropriate, shall be established for processes and control devices that will indicate the source is in compliance. If the operating parameter to be established is a maximum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the maximum values from each of the three test runs. If the operating parameter to be established is a minimum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the minimum values from each of the three test runs. Parameter values for process vents with intermittent emission streams shall be determined as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard. A de minimis level is specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Monitoring parameters are specified for various process vent control scenarios in paragraphs (a) (2) through (7) of this section.
(1) For affected BLR sources, uncontrolled emission points emitting less than one pound per year of HAP are not subject to the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a) (2) through (6) of this section. The owner or operator shall use the methods specified in § 63.525(a), as applicable, or as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, to demonstrate which emission points satisfy the de minimis criteria, to the satisfaction of the Administrator.
(i) For the purpose of determining de minimis status for emission points, engineering assessment may be used to determine process vent stream flow rate and/or concentration for the representative operating conditions expected to yield the highest flow rate and concentration. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.
(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.
(C) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.
(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations,
(
2
) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities,
(
3
) Estimation of HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions.
(ii) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented in accordance with § 63.527(c).
(2) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(3) For affected sources using condensers, the owner or operator shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.
(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified under 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.
(7) For affected sources using sorbent injection, the owner or operator shall establish both a minimum sorbent injection rate and minimum carrier gas flow rate flow rate as site-specific operating parameters which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the sorbent injection rate or the carrier gas flow rate flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum values established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(b) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or is subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. As part of each compliance demonstrations for batch process vents, test data or compliance calculations shall be used to establish a maximum or minimum level of a relevant operating parameter for each unit operation. The parameter value for each unit operation shall represent the worst case value of the operating parameter from all episodes in the unit operation. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard.
(1) For batch process vents, the level shall be established in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section if compliance testing is performed.
(i) If testing is used to demonstrate compliance, the appropriate parameter shall be monitored during all batch emission episodes in the unit operation.
(ii) An average monitored parameter value shall be determined for each of the batch emission episodes in the unit operation.
(iii) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a maximum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the minimum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a minimum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the maximum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Affected sources with condensers on process vents shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter, which must be measured every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(3) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is below the minimum flow rate established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes of duration shorter than 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.
(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified by 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.
(7) For affected sources using sorbent injection, the owner or operator shall establish both a minimum sorbent injection rate and minimum carrier gas flow rate flow rate as site-specific operating parameters which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the sorbent injection rate or the carrier gas flow rate flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum values established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(c) Periods of time when monitoring measurements exceed the parameter values do not constitute a violation if they occur during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction, and the facility is operated in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.
(d) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the requirements of subpart H of this
part shall meet the monitoring requirements of subpart H of this part.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 20457, Apr. 20, 2006; 89 FR 43272, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.527
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source shall keep records of daily average values of equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.526(a) or specified by the Administrator. Records shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10 of subpart A of this part, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table of this subpart. The owner or operator shall keep records up-to-date and readily accessible.
(1) A daily (24-hour) average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.
(2) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.9(h) of subpart A of this part. It may be from midnight to midnight or another continuous 24-hour period.
(3) In the event of an excursion, the owner or operator must keep records of each 15-minute reading during the period in which the excursion occurred.
(b) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents shall keep records of values of equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.526(b) or specified by the Administrator. The records that shall be kept are the average values of operating parameters, determined for the duration of each unit operation. Records shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table in this subpart. The owner or operator shall keep records up-to-date and readily accessible. In the event of an excursion, the owner or operator must keep records of each 15-minute reading for the entire unit operation in which the excursion occurred.
(c) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, who demonstrates that certain process vents are below the de minimis cutoff for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.526(a)(1)(i), shall maintain up-to-date, readily accessible records of the following information to document that a HAP emission rate of less than one pound per year is maintained:
(1) The information used to determine de minimis status for each de minimis process vent, as specified in § 63.526(a)(1)(i);
(2) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) of subpart G of this part that increase the HAP emission rate;
(3) Any recalculation or measurement of the HAP emission rate pursuant to § 63.115(e) of subpart G of this part; and
(4) Whether or not the HAP emission rate increases to one pound per year or greater as a result of the process change.
(d) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the leak detection and repair program specified in subpart H of this part, shall implement the recordkeeping requirements outlined therein. All records shall be retained for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10(b)(1).
(e) Any excursion from the required monitoring parameter, unless otherwise excused, shall be considered a violation of the emission standard.
(f) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, must keep the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section each pressure relief device, as defined in § 63.522.
(1) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.
(2) An estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released.
(3) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.
(g) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, must keep the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section for each maintenance vent release. A process vent is considered a maintenance vent if the process vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service.
(1) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.
(2) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.
(3) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43273, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.528
Reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or is subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents, shall comply with the reporting requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table in this subpart. The owner or operator shall also submit to the Administrator, as part of the quarterly excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.10(e)(3), the following recorded information. On and after July 15, 2027 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Polymers and Resins Sector Lead. Owners and operators must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.9(i) and § 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If a report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirements in § 63.10(e)(3)(v), § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(L), and § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(M) to submit the date of the report and the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report.
(1) Reports of monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values or per-unit operation average values, as applicable, of monitored parameters for all operating days or unit operations when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, including reports specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Reports of the duration of periods when monitoring data is not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data, including reports specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. An excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control
device. In the report, include the identification of the source, start date, start time, duration in hours, and monitored parameter(s) meeting the excursion criteria.
(i) When the period of control device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.
(ii) When the period of control device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than one of the hours during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.
(iii) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.
(3) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes the emission rate from a de minimis emission point to become a process vent with an emission rate of one pound per year or greater, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next summary report required under § 63.10(e)(3). The report shall include:
(i) A description of the process change; and
(ii) The results of the recalculation of the emission rate.
(4) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), for each excursion that is not an excused excursion, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, the monitored parameter, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the excursion (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken. Include the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each excursion.
(5) For pressure relief device subject to § 63.527(f), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number, the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released.
(6) For heat exchangers subject to § 63.104 of subpart F of this part, the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) of subpart F of this part.
(b) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source who is subject to the leak detection and repair program specified in subpart H of this part, shall implement the reporting requirements outlined therein. Copies of all reports shall be retained as records for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10(b)(1).
(c) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall include records of all monitoring parameters in the Notification of Compliance Status and summary reports required by subpart A of this part.
(d) Beginning no later than July 15, 2024, owners and operators must submit performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, owners and operators must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, owners and operators may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time
of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.
[89 FR 43273, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.529
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.520, 63.521, 63.523, and 63.524. Where these standards reference another rule, the cited provisions in that rule will be delegated according to the delegation provisions of that rule.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods for under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[68 FR 37350, June 23, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 43274, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. W, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart W of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart W
Reference
Applies to subpart W
BLR
WSR
WSR equipment leak standard, and BLR equipment leak
standard (40 CFR part 63, subpart H)
Comment
§ 63.1(a)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Additional terms defined in § 63.522.
§ 63.1(a)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Subpart W specifies applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to subpart W.
§ 63.1(a)(5)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.1(a)(6)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(7)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(8)
No
No
No
Discusses State programs.
§ 63.1(a)(9)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.1(a)(10)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(11)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(12)-(14)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)
No
No
No
§ 63.521 of subpart W specifies applicability.
§ 63.1(b)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Subpart W specifies applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to sources subject to subpart W.
§ 63.1(c)(2)
No
No
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart W.
§ 63.1(c)(3)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.1(c)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(5)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies applicable notification requirements.
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.1(d)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.1(e)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.2
Yes
Yes
Yes
Additional terms are defined in § 63.522 of subpart W; when overlap between subparts A and W occurs, subpart W takes precedence.
§ 63.3
Yes
Yes
No
Other units used in subpart W are defined in that subpart; units of measure are spelled out for subpart H.
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(4)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.4(a)(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.4(b)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.4(c)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Except replace the terms “source” and “stationary source” in § 63.5(a)(1) of subpart A with “affected source”.
§ 63.5(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(2)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.5(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(6)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(c)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.5(d)(1)(i)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(d)(1)(ii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(d)(1)(iii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(d)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(d)(3)-(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.5(f)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.5(f)(1) of subpart A with “affected source”.
§ 63.5(f)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(2)
No
No
No
Subpart W specifies compliance dates.
§ 63.6(b)(3)-(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(5)
Yes
No
Subpart H includes notification requirements.
§ 63.6(b)(6)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.6(b)(7)
No
Yes
No
Sources subject to subpart H must comply according to the schedule in § 63.520 of subpart W for new sources subject to subpart H.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(c)(1)-(2) of subpart A with “affected source”.
§ 63.6(c)(3)-(4)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.6(c)(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(d)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.6(e)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Reserved.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
See Comment
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
63.6(e)(2)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
63.6(e)(3)
See Comment
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(f)(2)(i)-(ii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(f)(2)(iii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(f)(2)(iv)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(f)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(g)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Affected sources have the opportunity to demonstrate other alternatives to the Administrator.
§ 63.6(h)
No
No
No
Subpart W does not contain any opacity or visible emissions standards.
§ 63.6(i)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(i)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(2) (i) and (ii) of subpart A with “affected source”.
§ 63.6(i)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(i)(4)(i)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(i)(4)(ii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(i)(5)-(14)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(i)(15)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.6(i)(16)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies required testing and compliance procedures.
§ 63.7(a)(2)(i)-(vi)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies that test results must be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status due 150 days after the compliance date.
§ 63.7(a)(2)(vii)-(viii)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.7(a)(2)(ix)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(b)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(c)
No
No
No
§ 63.7(d)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.7(d) of subpart A with “affected source”.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
See § 63.525(l). Subpart W also contains test methods specific to BLR and WSR sources.
§ 63.7(e)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(e)(3)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies test methods and procedures.
§ 63.7(f)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies applicable methods and provides alternatives.
§ 63.7(g)(1)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies performance test reporting. Additionally, this subpart specifies how and when the performance test results are reported for BLR and WSR.
§ 63.7(g)(2)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.7(g)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(h)(1)-(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(h)(3)(i)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(h)(3)(ii)-(iii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.7(h)(4)-(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(3)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(b)(2)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies locations to conduct monitoring.
§ 63.8(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(4)-(8)
No
No
No
Subpart W specifies monitoring frequencies.
§ 63.8(d)
No
No
No
§ 63.8(e)
No
No
No
§ 63.8(f)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Yes
Yes
No
§ 63.8(g)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(a)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(1)(i)-(ii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(1)(iii)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(5)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(c)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(d)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
No
No
No
§ 63.9(f)
No
No
No
§ 63.9(g)
No
No
No
§ 63.9(h)(1)-(3)
Yes
Yes
No
Separate Notification of Compliance Status requirements are specified for subpart H.
§ 63.9(h)(4)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Reserved.
§ 63.9(h)(5)-(6)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies Notification of Compliance Status requirements.
§ 63.9(i)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(a)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)
No
No
No
Subparts H and W specify recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(6)
No
No
No
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(9)-(15)
No
No
No
§ 63.10(d)(1)
Yes
Yes
No
Subpart H specifies performance test reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
No
No
No
This subpart and Subpart H specify performance test reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
No
No
No
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Yes, before July 15, 2027. No, beginning on and after July 15, 2027.
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
No
No
No
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Yes
Yes
No
Except that on and after July 15, 2027, the reports shall be submitted according to and in the format required by § 63.528(a).
§ 63.10(e)(4)
No
No
No
§ 63.10(f)
Yes
Yes
Yes
§ 63.11-63.15
Yes
Yes
Yes
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 73891, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 43274, May 16, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 43274, May 16, 2024, table 1 to subpart W was amended in part by revising entry “§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)”. However, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an inaccurate amendatory instruction.
[60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43274, May 16, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. W, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart W of Part 63—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin and Furan Congener
Toxic
equivalency factor
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
Octachlorodibenzofuran
0.0003
[89 FR 43275, May 16, 2024]

# Subpart X—National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants From Secondary Lead Smelting

# Source:
77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.541
Applicability.
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate any of the following affected sources at a secondary lead smelter: Blast, reverberatory, rotary, and electric furnaces; refining kettles; agglomerating furnaces; dryers; process fugitive emissions sources; buildings containing lead bearing materials; and fugitive dust sources. The provisions of this subpart do not apply to primary lead processors, lead refiners, or lead remelters.
(b) Table 1 to this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A of this part that apply to owners and operators of secondary lead smelters subject to this subpart.
(c) If you are subject to the provisions of this subpart, you are also subject to title V permitting requirements under 40 CFR parts 70 or 71, as applicable.
(d) Emissions standards in this subpart apply at all times.
§ 63.542
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:
Affected source
means any of the following sources at a secondary lead smelter: Blast, reverberatory, rotary, and electric furnaces; refining kettles; agglomerating furnaces; dryers; process fugitive emissions sources; buildings containing lead bearing materials; and fugitive dust sources.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Agglomerating furnace
means a furnace used to melt into a solid mass flue dust that is collected from a baghouse.
Bag leak detection system
means an instrument that is capable of monitoring particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, transmittance or other effect to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Battery breaking area
means the plant location at which lead-acid batteries are broken, crushed, or disassembled and separated into components.
Blast furnace
means a smelting furnace consisting of a vertical cylinder atop a crucible, into which lead-bearing charge materials are introduced at the top of the furnace and combustion air is introduced through tuyeres at the bottom of the cylinder, and that uses coke as a fuel source and that is operated at such a temperature in the combustion zone (greater than 980 Celsius) that lead compounds are chemically reduced to elemental lead metal.
Blast furnace charging location
means the physical opening through which raw materials are introduced into a blast furnace.
Collocated blast furnace and reverberatory furnace
means operation at the same location of a blast furnace and a reverberatory furnace where the vent streams of the furnaces are mixed before cooling, with the volumetric flow rate discharged from the blast furnace being equal to or less than that discharged from the reverberatory furnace.
Dryer
means a chamber that is heated and that is used to remove moisture from lead-bearing materials before they are charged to a smelting furnace.
Dryer transition equipment
means the junction between a dryer and the charge hopper or conveyor, or the junction between the dryer and the smelting furnace feed chute or hopper located at the ends of the dryer.
Electric furnace
means a smelting furnace consisting of a vessel into which reverberatory furnace slag is introduced and that uses electrical energy to heat the reverberatory furnace slag to such a temperature (greater than 980 Celsius) that lead compounds are reduced to elemental lead metal.
Fugitive dust source
means a stationary source of hazardous air pollutant emissions at a secondary lead smelter that is not associated with a specific process or process fugitive vent or stack. Fugitive dust sources include, but are not limited to, roadways, storage piles, lead bearing material handling transfer points, lead bearing material transport areas, lead bearing material storage areas, other lead bearing material process areas, and buildings.
Furnace and refining/casting area
means any area of a secondary lead smelter in which:
(1) Smelting furnaces are located;
(2) Refining operations occur; or
(3) Casting operations occur.
Lead alloy
means an alloy in which the predominant component is lead.
Lead bearing material
means material with a lead content equal to or greater than 5 mg/l as measured by EPA Method 1311 (Under Method 1311, only materials with at least 100 ppm lead will be considered to be lead bearing).
Leeward wall
means the furthest exterior wall of a total enclosure that is opposite the windward wall.
Maintenance activity
means any of the following routine maintenance and repair activities that could generate fugitive lead dust:
(1) Replacement or repair of refractory, or any internal or external part of equipment used to process, handle or control lead-containing materials.
(2) Replacement of any duct section used to convey lead-containing exhaust.
(3) Metal cutting or welding that penetrates the metal structure of any equipment, and its associated components, used to process lead-containing material such that lead dust within the internal structure or its components can become fugitive lead dust.
(4) Resurfacing, repair or removal of ground, pavement, concrete, or asphalt.
Materials storage and handling area
means any area of a secondary lead smelter in which lead-bearing materials (including, but not limited to, broken battery components, reverberatory furnace slag, flue dust, and dross) are stored or handled between process steps including, but not limited to, areas in which materials are stored in open piles, bins, or tubs, and areas in which material is prepared for charging to a smelting furnace.
Natural draft opening
means any permanent opening in an enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed.
New source
means any affected source at a secondary lead smelting facility the construction or reconstruction of which is commenced after May 19, 2011. A building that is constructed for the purpose of controlling fugitive emissions from an existing source is not considered to be a new source.
Partial enclosure
means a structure comprised of walls or partitions on at least three sides or three-quarters of the perimeter surrounding stored materials or process equipment to prevent the entrainment of particulate matter into the air.
Pavement cleaning
means the use of vacuum equipment, water sprays, or a combination thereof to remove dust or
other accumulated material from the paved areas of a secondary lead smelter.
Plant roadway
means any area of a secondary lead smelter outside of a total enclosure that is subject to vehicle traffic, including traffic by forklifts, front-end loaders, or vehicles carrying whole batteries or cast lead ingots. Excluded from this definition are employee and visitor parking areas, provided they are not subject to traffic by vehicles carrying lead-bearing materials.
Pressurized dryer breaching seal
means a seal system connecting the dryer transition pieces which is maintained at a higher pressure than the inside of the dryer.
Process fugitive emissions source
means a source of hazardous air pollutant emissions at a secondary lead smelter that is associated with lead smelting or refining, but is not the primary exhaust stream from a smelting furnace, and is not a fugitive dust source. Process fugitive emissions sources include, but are not limited to, smelting furnace charging points, smelting furnace lead and slag taps, refining kettles, agglomerating furnaces, and drying kiln transition pieces.
Process vent
means furnace vents, dryer vents, agglomeration furnace vents, vents from battery breakers, vents from buildings containing lead bearing material, and any ventilation system controlling lead emissions.
Refining kettle
means an open-top vessel that is constructed of cast iron or steel and is indirectly heated from below and contains molten lead for the purpose of refining and alloying the lead. Included are pot furnaces, receiving kettles, and holding kettles.
Reverberatory furnace
means a refractory-lined furnace that uses one or more flames to heat the walls and roof of the furnace and lead-bearing scrap to such a temperature (greater than 980 Celsius) that lead compounds are chemically reduced to elemental lead metal.
Rotary furnace
(also known as a rotary reverberatory furnace) means a furnace consisting of a refractory-lined chamber that rotates about a horizontal axis and that uses one or more flames to heat the walls of the furnace and lead-bearing scrap to such a temperature (greater than 980 Celsius) that lead compounds are chemically reduced to elemental lead metal.
Secondary lead smelter
means any facility at which lead-bearing scrap material, primarily, but not limited to, lead-acid batteries, is recycled into elemental lead or lead alloys by smelting.
Shutdown
means the period when no lead bearing materials are being fed to the furnace and smelting operations have ceased during which the furnace is cooled from steady-state operating temperature to ambient temperature.
Smelting
means the chemical reduction of lead compounds to elemental lead or lead alloys through processing in high-temperature (greater than 980 Celsius) furnaces including, but not limited to, blast furnaces, reverberatory furnaces, rotary furnaces, and electric furnaces.
Startup
means the period when no led bearing materials have been fed to the furnace and smelting operations have not yet commenced during which the furnace is heated from ambient temperature to steady-state operating temperature.
Total enclosure
means a containment building that is completely enclosed with a floor, walls, and a roof to prevent exposure to the elements and to assure containment of lead bearing material with limited openings to allow access and egress for people and vehicles. The total enclosure must provide an effective barrier against fugitive dust emissions such that the direction of air flow through any openings is inward and the enclosure is maintained under constant negative pressure.
Vehicle wash
means a device for removing dust and other accumulated material from the wheels, body, and underside of a vehicle to prevent the inadvertent transfer of lead contaminated material to another area of a secondary lead smelter or to public roadways.
Wet suppression
means the use of water, water combined with a chemical surfactant, or a chemical binding agent to prevent the entrainment of dust into the air from fugitive dust sources.
Windward wall
means the exterior wall of a total enclosure that is most
impacted by the wind in its most prevailing direction determined by a wind rose using available data from the closest representative meteorological station. When openings into enclosures are not impacted by ambient wind due to the enclosure being part of a larger structure, the owner or operator may designate which wall of the enclosure to define as the windward wall.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 371, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.543
What are my standards for process vents?
(a) For existing sources, you must maintain the concentration of lead compounds in any process vent gas at or below 1.0 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter (0.00043 grains of lead per dry standard cubic foot). You must maintain the flow-weighted average concentration of lead compounds in vent gases from a secondary lead smelting facility at or below 0.20 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter (0.000087 grains of lead per dry standard cubic foot).
(1) You must demonstrate compliance with the flow weighted average emissions limit on a 12-month rolling average basis, calculated monthly using the most recent test data available.
(2) Until 12 monthly weighted average emissions rates have been accumulated, calculate only the monthly average weighted emissions rate.
(3) You must use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the flow-weighted average concentration of lead compounds from process vents:
ER05JA12.000
Where:
C
FWA
= Flow-weighted average concentration of all process vents.
n = Number of process vents.
F
i
= Flow rate from process vent
i
in dry standard cubic feet per minute, as measured during the most recent compliance test.
C
i
= Concentration of lead in process vent
i,
as measured during the most recent compliance test.
(4) Each month, you must use the concentration of lead and flow rate obtained during the most recent compliance test performed prior to or during that month to perform the calculation using Equation 1 of this section.
(5) If a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) is used to measure the concentration of lead in a vent, the monthly average lead concentration and monthly average flow rate must be used rather than the most recent compliance test data.
(b) For new sources that begin construction or reconstruction after May 19, 2011 you must maintain the concentration of lead compounds in any process vent gas at or below 0.20 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter (0.000087 grains of lead per dry standard cubic foot).
(c) You must meet the applicable emissions limits for total hydrocarbons and dioxins and furans from furnace sources specified in Table 2 of this subpart. There are no standards for dioxins and furans during periods of startup and shutdown.
(d) If you combine furnace emissions from multiple types of furnaces and these furnaces do not meet the definition of collocated blast and reverberatory furnaces, you must calculate your emissions limit for the combined furnace stream using Equation 2 of this section.
ER05JA12.001
Where:
C
EL
= Flow-weighted average emissions limit (concentration) of combined furnace vents.
n = Number of furnace vents.
F
i
= Flow rate from furnace vent i in dry standard cubic feet per minute.
C
Eli
= Emissions limit (concentration) of pollutant in furnace vent i as specified in Table 2 of this subpart.
(e) If you combine furnace emissions with the furnace charging process fugitive emissions and discharge them to the atmosphere through a common emissions point, you must demonstrate compliance with the applicable total hydrocarbons concentration limit specified in paragraph (c) of this section at a location downstream from the point at which the two emissions streams are combined.
(f) If you do not combine the furnace charging process fugitive emissions with the furnace process emissions, and discharge such emissions to the atmosphere through separate emissions points, you must maintain the total hydrocarbons concentration in the exhaust gas at or below 20 parts per million by volume, expressed as propane.
(g) Following the initial performance or compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the lead emissions limits specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, you must conduct performance tests according to the schedule in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Conduct an annual performance test for lead compounds from each process vent (no later than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test), unless you install and operate a CEMS meeting the requirements of § 63.8.
(2) If an annual compliance test demonstrates that a process vent emitted lead compounds at 0.10 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter or less during the time of the annual compliance test, you may submit a written request to the Administrator applying for an extension of up to 24 calendar months from the previous compliance test to conduct the next compliance test for lead compounds.
(h) Following the initial performance or compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the total hydrocarbons emissions limits in paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section, you must conduct an annual performance test for total hydrocarbons emissions from each process vent that has established limits for total hydrocarbons (no later than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test), unless you install and operate a CEMS meeting the requirements of § 63.8. If an annual compliance test demonstrates that a process vent emitted total hydrocarbons at less than 50 percent of the allowable limit during the time of the annual compliance test, you may submit a written request to the Administrator applying for an extension of up to 24 calendar months from the previous compliance test to conduct the next compliance test for total hydrocarbons.
(i) Following the initial performance or compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the dioxins and furans emissions limits specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must conduct a performance test for dioxins and furans emissions from each process vent that has established limits for dioxins and furans at least once every 6 years following the previous compliance test.
(j) You must conduct the performance tests specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section under maximum representative operating conditions for the process. During the performance test, you may operate the
control device at maximum or minimum representative operating conditions for monitored control device parameters, whichever results in lower emission reduction. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(k) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(l) If you own or operate a unit subject to emission limits in Table 2 of this subpart, you must minimize the unit's startup and shutdown periods following the manufacturer's recommended procedures, if available. You must develop and follow standard operating procedures designed to minimize emissions of total hydrocarbon for each startup or shutdown scenario anticipated. You must submit a signed statement in the Notification of Compliance Status report that indicates that you conducted startups and shutdowns according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures, if available, and the standard operating procedures designed to minimize emissions of total hydrocarbons.
(m) In addition to complying with the applicable emissions limits for dioxins and furans listed in Table 2 to this subpart, you must operate a process to separate plastic battery casing materials from all automotive batteries prior to introducing feed into a furnace.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 371, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.544
What are my total enclosure standards?
(a) You must operate the process fugitive emissions sources and fugitive dust sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section in a total enclosure that is maintained at negative pressure at all times and vented to a control device designed to capture lead particulate. The total enclosure must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) Smelting furnaces.
(2) Smelting furnace charging areas.
(3) Lead taps, slag taps, and molds during tapping.
(4) Battery breakers.
(5) Refining kettles, casting areas.
(6) Dryers.
(7) Agglomerating furnaces and agglomerating furnace product taps.
(8) Material handling areas for any lead bearing materials except those listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(9) Areas where dust from fabric filters, sweepings or used fabric filters are processed.
(b) Total enclosures are not required in the following areas: lead ingot product handling areas, stormwater and wastewater treatment areas, intact battery storage areas, areas where lead bearing material is stored in closed containers or enclosed mechanical conveyors, and areas where clean battery casing material is handled.
(c) You must construct and operate total enclosures for the sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The total enclosure must be free of significant cracks, gaps, corrosion or other deterioration that could cause lead bearing material to be released from the primary barrier. Measures must be in place to prevent the tracking of lead bearing material out of the unit by personnel or by equipment used in handling the material. An area must be designated to decontaminate equipment and any rinsate must be collected and properly managed.
(1) You must ventilate the total enclosure continuously to ensure negative pressure values of at least 0.013 mm of mercury (0.007 inches of water).
(2) You must maintain an inward flow of air through all natural draft openings.
(3) If areas that contain one or more sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section are enclosed
within a larger building that also meets the definition of a total enclosure under § 63.542, the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) shall be monitored pursuant to § 63.548(k) at only one leeward, one windward and one additional wall of the outermost portion of the larger totally enclosed building rather than each individual area within the building.
(d) You must inspect enclosures and facility structures that contain any lead-bearing materials at least once per month. You must repair any gaps, breaks, separations, leak points or other possible routes for emissions of lead to the atmosphere within one week of identification unless you obtain approval for an extension from the Administrator before the repair period is exceeded.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 371, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.545
What are my standards for fugitive dust sources?
(a) You must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a standard operating procedures manual that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place and implemented to control the fugitive dust emissions from the sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) Plant roadways.
(2) Plant buildings.
(3) Accidental releases.
(4) Battery storage area.
(5) Equipment maintenance.
(6) Material storage areas.
(7) Material handling areas.
(b) You must submit the standard operating procedures manual to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval when initially developed and any time changes are made.
(c) The controls specified in the standard operating procedures manual must at a minimum include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1)
Cleaning.
Where a cleaning practice is specified, you must clean by wet wash or a vacuum equipped with a filter rated by the manufacturer to achieve 99.97 percent capture efficiency for 0.3 micron particles in a manner that does not generate fugitive lead dust.
(2)
Plant roadways and paved areas.
You must pave all areas subject to vehicle traffic and you must clean the pavement twice per day, except on days when natural precipitation makes cleaning unnecessary or when sand or a similar material has been spread on plant roadways to provide traction on ice or snow. Limited access and limited use roadways such as unpaved roads to remote locations on the property may be exempt from this requirement if they are used infrequently (no more than one round trip per day).
(3)
Accidental releases.
You must initiate cleaning of all affected areas within one hour after detection of any accidental release of lead dust that exceeds 10 pounds (the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) reportable quantity for lead at 40 CFR 302.4).
(4)
Battery storage areas.
You must inspect any batteries that are not stored in a total enclosure once each week and move any broken batteries to an enclosure within 72 hours of identification. You must clean residue from broken batteries within 72 hours of identification.
(5)
Materials storage and handling areas.
You must wash each vehicle at each exit of the material storage and handling areas. The vehicle wash must include washing of tires, undercarriage and exterior surface of the vehicle followed by vehicle inspection.
(6)
Equipment maintenance.
You must perform all maintenance activities that could generate lead dust in a manner that minimizes emissions of fugitive dust. This must include one or more of the following:
(i) Performing maintenance inside a total permanent enclosure maintained at negative pressure.
(ii) Performing maintenance inside a temporary enclosure and use a vacuum system either equipped with a filter rated by the manufacturer to achieve a capture efficiency of 99.97 percent for 0.3 micron particles or routed to an existing control device permitted for this activity.
(iii) Performing maintenance inside a partial enclosure and use of wet suppression sufficient to prevent dust formation.
(iv) Decontamination of equipment prior to removal from an enclosure.
(v) Immediate repair of ductwork or structure leaks without an enclosure if the time to construct a temporary enclosure would exceed the time to make a temporary or permanent repair, or if construction of an enclosure would cause a higher level of emissions than if an enclosure were not constructed.
(vi) Activities required for inspection of fabric filters and maintenance of filters that are in need of removal and replacement are not required to be conducted inside of total enclosures. Used fabric filters must be placed in sealed plastic bags or containers prior to removal from a baghouse.
(7)
Material transport.
You must collect and transport all lead bearing dust (
i.e.
lead bearing material which is a dust) within closed conveyor systems or in sealed, leak-proof containers unless the collection and transport activities are contained within a total enclosure. All other lead bearing material must be contained and covered for transport outside of a total enclosure in a manner that prevents spillage or dust formation. Intact batteries and lead ingot product are exempt from the requirement to be covered for transport.
(d) Your standard operating procedures manual must specify that records be maintained of all pavement cleaning, vehicle washing, and battery storage inspection activities performed to control fugitive dust emissions.
(e) You must pave all grounds on the facility or plant groundcover sufficient to prevent wind-blown dust. You may use dust suppressants on unpaved areas that will not support a groundcover (e.g., roadway shoulders, steep slopes, limited access and limited use roadways).
(f) As provided in § 63.6(g), as an alternative to the requirements specified in this section, you can demonstrate to the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) that an alternative measure(s) is equivalent or better than a practice(s) described in this section.
§ 63.546
Compliance dates.
(a) For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before May 19, 2011, you must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subpart no later than January 6, 2014.
(b) For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after May 19, 2011, you must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subpart by January 5, 2012 or upon startup of operations, whichever is later.
(c) Until the date specified in 63.546(a), secondary lead smelters that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before May 19, 2011, must continue to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subpart, codified in 40 CFR 63.541 through 40 CFR 63.550, that were in effect prior to the January 5, 2012, amendments. This means that secondary lead smelters that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before June 9, 1994, must continue to demonstrate compliance with existing source requirements of this subpart that were in effect prior to the January 5, 2012, amendments until the date specified in § 63.546(a). Secondary lead smelters that commenced construction or reconstruction after June 9, 1994, and on or before May 19, 2011, must continue to demonstrate compliance with new source requirements of this subpart that were in effect prior to the January 5, 2012, amendments until the date specified in § 63.546(a).
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 371, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.547
Test methods.
(a) You must use the test methods from appendix A of part 60 as listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to determine compliance with the emissions standards for lead compounds specified in § 63.543(a) and (b).
(1) EPA Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points.
(2) EPA Method 2 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 or EPA Method 5D at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, section 8.3
for positive pressure fabric filters, to measure volumetric flow rate.
(3) EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.
(4) EPA Method 4 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to determine moisture content of the stack gas.
(5) EPA Method 12 or Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 to determine compliance with the lead compound emissions standards. The minimum sample volume must be 2.0 dry standard cubic meters (70 dry standard cubic feet) for each run. You must perform three test runs and you must determine compliance using the average of the three runs.
(b) You must use the following test methods in appendix A of part 60 listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as specified, to determine compliance with the emissions standards for total hydrocarbons specified in § 63.543(c) through (f).
(1) EPA Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling port location and number of traverse points.
(2) The Single Point Integrated Sampling and Analytical Procedure of Method 3B to measure the carbon dioxide content of the stack gases when using either EPA Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2.
(3) EPA Method 4 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to measure moisture content of the stack gases.
(4) EPA Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 to measure total hydrocarbons emissions. The minimum sampling time must be 1 hour for each run. You must perform a minimum of three test runs. You must calculate a 1-hour average total hydrocarbons concentration for each run and use the average of the three 1-hour averages to determine compliance.
(c) You must correct the measured total hydrocarbons concentrations to 4 percent carbon dioxide as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If the measured percent carbon dioxide is greater than 0.4 percent in each compliance test, you must determine the correction factor using Equation 2 of this section.
ER05JA12.002
Where:
F = Correction factor (no units).
CO
2
= Percent carbon dioxide measured using EPA Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, where the measured carbon dioxide is greater than 0.4 percent.
(2) If the measured percent carbon dioxide is equal to or less than 0.4 percent, you must use a correction factor (F) of 10.
(3) You must determine the corrected total hydrocarbons concentration by multiplying the measured total hydrocarbons concentration by the correction factor (F) determined for each compliance test.
(d) You must use the following test methods in appendix A of part 60 listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, as specified, to determine compliance with the emissions standards for dioxins and furans specified in § 63.543(c).
(1) EPA Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points.
(2) EPA Method 2 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 or EPA Method 5D at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, section 8.3 for positive pressure fabric filters to measure volumetric flow rate.
(3) EPA Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 to determine the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations of the stack gas.
(4) EPA Method 4 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to determine moisture content of the stack gas.
(5) EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 to determine the dioxins and furans concentration.
(e) You must determine the dioxins and furans toxic equivalency by following the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxins and furans congener shown in Table 3 of this subpart using EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must correct the concentration of dioxins and furans in terms of toxic equivalency to 7 percent O
2
using Equation 3 of this section.
ER05JA12.003
Where:
C
adj
= Dioxins and furans concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen.
C
meas
= Dioxins and furans concentration measured in nanograms per dry standard cubic meter.
(20.9-7) = 20.9 percent oxygen—7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis).
20.9 = Oxygen concentration in air, percent.
%O
2
= Oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(2) For each dioxins and furans congener measured as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(3) Sum the values calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins and furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
§ 63.548
Monitoring requirements.
(a) You must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a standard operating procedures manual that describes in detail procedures for inspection, maintenance, and bag leak detection and corrective action plans for all baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge filters) that are used to control process vents, process fugitive, or fugitive dust emissions from any source subject to the lead emissions standards in §§ 63.543, 63.544, and 63.545, including those used to control emissions from building ventilation.
(b) You must submit the standard operating procedures manual for baghouses required by paragraph (a) of this section to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.
(c) The procedures that you specify in the standard operating procedures manual for inspections and routine maintenance must, at a minimum, include the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.
(1) Daily monitoring of pressure drop across each baghouse cell.
(2) Weekly confirmation that dust is being removed from hoppers through visual inspection, or equivalent means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.
(3) Daily check of compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses.
(4) An appropriate methodology for monitoring cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation.
(5) Monthly check of bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through visual inspection or equivalent means.
(6) Monthly check of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses. Such checks are not required for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring loaded) devices.
(7) Quarterly confirmation of the physical integrity of the baghouse through visual inspection of the baghouse interior for air leaks.
(8) Quarterly inspection of fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through visual inspection, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.
(9) Except as provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, continuous operation of a bag leak detection system, unless a system meeting the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section for a continuous emissions monitoring system is installed for monitoring the concentration of lead.
(d) The procedures you specify in the standard operating procedures manual
for baghouse maintenance must include, at a minimum, a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the baghouse manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.
(e) The bag leak detection system required by paragraph (c)(9) of this section, must meet the specification and requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 1.0 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings.
(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.
(4) You must install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in “Office of Air quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(6) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved standard operating procedures manual required under paragraph (a) of this section. You cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365 day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates that the baghouse is in good operating condition.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, you must install the bag leak detector downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet acid gas scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(f) You must include in the standard operating procedures manual required by paragraph (a) of this section a corrective action plan that specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan must include, at a minimum, the procedures that you will use to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm must be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
(2) The cause of the alarm must be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(g) Baghouses equipped with high efficiency particulate air (or HEPA) filters as a secondary filter used to control emissions from any source subject to the lead emission standards in § 65.543(a) or (b), are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. You must monitor and record the pressure drop across each HEPA filter system daily.
If the pressure drop is outside the limit(s) specified by the filter manufacturer, you must take appropriate corrective measures, which may include but not be limited to those given in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.
(2) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(3) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices
(4) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(h) Baghouses followed by a wet electrostatic precipitator used as a secondary control device for any source subject to the lead emission standards in § 63.543(a) or (b), are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system.
(i) If you use a wet scrubber to control particulate matter and metal hazardous air pollutant emissions from a process vent to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standards, you must monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate of the wet scrubber during the initial performance or compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with the lead emissions limit under § 63.543(a) or (b). Thereafter, you must monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate values at least once every hour and you must maintain the pressure drop and water flow rate at levels no lower than 30 percent below the pressure drop and water flow rate measured during the initial performance or compliance test.
(j) You must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the total hydrocarbons and dioxins and furans emissions standards. During periods of startup and shutdown, the requirements of paragraph (j)(4) of this section do not apply. Instead, you must demonstrate compliance with the standard for total hydrocarbon by meeting the requirements of § 63.543(l).
(1) Continuous temperature monitoring. You must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a device to monitor and record the temperature of the afterburner or furnace exhaust streams consistent with the requirements for continuous monitoring systems in § 63.8.
(2) Prior to or in conjunction with the initial performance or compliance test to determine compliance with § 63.543(c), you must conduct a performance evaluation for the temperature monitoring device according to § 63.8(e). The definitions, installation specifications, test procedures, and data reduction procedures for determining calibration drift, relative accuracy, and reporting described in Performance Specification 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, sections 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10 must be used to conduct the evaluation. The temperature monitoring device must meet the following performance and equipment specifications:
(i) The recorder response range must include zero and 1.5 times the average temperature identified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(ii) The monitoring system calibration drift must not exceed 2 percent of 1.5 times the average temperature identified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(iii) The monitoring system relative accuracy must not exceed 20 percent.
(iv) The reference method must be a National Institute of Standards and Technology calibrated reference thermocouple-potentiometer system or an alternate reference, subject to the approval of the Administrator.
(3) You must monitor and record the temperature of the afterburner or the furnace exhaust streams every 15 minutes during the initial performance or compliance test for total hydrocarbons and dioxins and furans and determine an arithmetic average for the recorded temperature measurements.
(4) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for total hydrocarbons and dioxins and furans, you must maintain an afterburner or exhaust temperature such that the average temperature in any 3-hour period does not fall more than 28 °Celsius (50 °Fahrenheit) below the average established in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(k) You must install, operate, and maintain a digital differential pressure monitoring system to continuously monitor each total enclosure as described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You must install and maintain a minimum of one building digital differential pressure monitoring system at each of the following three walls in each total enclosure that has a total ground surface area of 10,000 square feet or more:
(i) The leeward wall.
(ii) The windward wall.
(iii) An exterior wall that connects the leeward and windward wall at a location defined by the intersection of a perpendicular line between a point on the connecting wall and a point on its furthest opposite exterior wall, and intersecting within plus or minus 10 meters of the midpoint of a straight line between the two other monitors specified. The midpoint monitor must not be located on the same wall as either of the other two monitors. If approved by the permitting authority, this third monitor may be placed in an alternative location on the midpoint wall or an exterior wall that is not the windward wall, leeward wall or midpoint wall.
(2) You must install and maintain a minimum of one building digital differential pressure monitoring system at the leeward wall of each total enclosure that has a total ground surface area of less than 10,000 square feet.
(3) The digital differential pressure monitoring systems must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of measuring and displaying negative pressure containing values in the range of 0.01 to 0.2 millimeters mercury (0.005 to 0.11 inches of water) and capable of recording data in increments of 0.002 millimeters of mercury (0.001 inches of water).
(4) You must equip each digital differential pressure monitoring system with a continuous recorder. To demonstrate compliance with the standard for differential pressure, you must maintain the pressure in total enclosures such that the average pressure in any 15-minute period does not fall below the level specified in § 63.544(c)(1). The 15-minute averages must include at least one reading per minute.
(5) You must calibrate each digital differential pressure monitoring system in accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
(l) Except as provided in paragraphs (l)(2) or (3) of this section, all new or reconstructed sources subject to the requirements under § 63.543 must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring lead emissions. In addition to the General Provisions requirements for CEMS in § 63.8(c) that are referenced in Table 1 to this subpart, you must comply with the requirements for CEMS specified in paragraph (m) of this section.
(1) Sources subject to the emissions limits for lead compounds under § 63.543(b) must install a CEMS for measuring lead emissions within 180 days of promulgation by the EPA of performance specifications for lead CEMS.
(2) Prior to 180 days after the EPA promulgates performance specifications for CEMS used to measure lead concentrations, you must use the procedure described in § 63.543(g)(1) to determine compliance.
(3) Vents from control devices that serve only to control emissions from buildings containing lead bearing materials are exempt from the requirement to install a CEMS for measuring lead emissions.
(m) If a CEMS is used to measure lead emissions, you must install a continuous emissions monitoring system with a sensor in a location that provides representative measurement of the exhaust gas flow rate at the sampling location of the CEMS used to measure lead emissions, taking into account the manufacturer's recommendations. The flow rate sensor is that portion of the system that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate.
(1) The continuous emissions monitoring system must be designed to measure the exhaust gas flow rate over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest expected exhaust flow rate to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest expected exhaust gas flow rate.
(2) The continuous emissions monitoring system must be equipped with a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (m)(1) of this section.
(3) You must perform an initial relative accuracy test of the continuous emissions monitoring system in accordance with the applicable Performance Specification in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
(4) You must operate the continuous emissions monitoring system and record data during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments.
(5) If you have a CEMS to measure lead emissions, you must calculate the average lead concentration and flow rate monthly to determine compliance with § 63.543(a).
(6) When the continuous emissions monitoring system is unable to provide quality assured data, the following apply:
(i) When data are not available for periods of up to 48 hours, the highest recorded hourly emissions rate from the previous 24 hours must be used.
(ii) When data are not available for 48 or more hours, the maximum daily emissions rate based on the previous 30 days must be used.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 371, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.549
Notification requirements.
(a) You must comply with all of the notification requirements of § 63.9. Electronic notifications are encouraged if suitable for the specific case (e.g., by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.
(b) You must submit the fugitive dust control standard operating procedures manual required under § 63.545(a) and the standard operating procedures manual for baghouses required under § 63.548(a) to the Administrator or delegated authority along with a notification that the smelter is seeking review and approval of these plans and procedures. You must submit this notification no later than January 7, 2013. For sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 5, 2012, you must submit this notification no later than 180 days before startup of the constructed or reconstructed secondary lead smelter, but no sooner than January 5, 2012. For an affected source that has received a construction permit from the Administrator or delegated authority on or before January 5, 2012, you must submit this notification no later than January 7, 2014.
§ 63.550
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) You must comply with all of the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 63.10 that are referenced in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1) Records must be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). However, electronic recordkeeping and reporting if suitable for the specific case (e.g., by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.
(2) Records must be kept on site for at least 2 years after the date of occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(b) The standard operating procedures manuals required in §§ 63.545(a) and 63.548(a) must be submitted to the Administrator in electronic format for review and approval of the initial submittal and whenever an update is made to the procedure.
(c) You must maintain for a period of 5 years, records of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section.
(1) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.
(2) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.
(3) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 63.548(c) as part of the practices described in the standard operating procedures manual for baghouses required under § 63.548(a).
(4) Electronic records of the pressure drop and water flow rate values for wet scrubbers used to control metal hazardous air pollutant emissions from process fugitive sources as required in § 63.548(i).
(5) Electronic records of the output from the continuous temperature monitor required in § 63.548(j)(1), and an identification of periods when the 3-hour average temperature fell below the minimum established under § 63.548(j)(4), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.
(6) Electronic records of the continuous pressure monitors for total enclosures required in § 63.548(k), and an identification of periods when the pressure was not maintained as required in § 63.544(c)(1).
(7) Records of any time periods power was lost to the continuous pressure monitors for total enclosures required in § 63.548(k) and records of loss of power to the air handling system maintaining negative pressure on total enclosures.
(8) Records of the inspections of facility enclosures required in § 63.544(d).
(9) Records of all cleaning and inspections required as part of the practices described in the standard operating procedures manual required under § 63.545(a) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.
(10) Electronic records of the output of any CEMS installed to monitor lead emissions meeting the requirements of § 63.548(m).
(11) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment) or the air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment.
(12) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.543(k), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(13) Records of any periods of startup or shutdown of a furnace and actions taken to minimize emissions during that period in accordance with § 63.543(l).
(d) You must comply with all of the reporting requirements specified in § 63.10 of the General Provisions that are referenced in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1) You must submit reports no less frequent than specified under § 63.10(e)(3) of the General Provisions.
(2) Once a source reports a violation of the standard or excess emissions, you must follow the reporting format required under § 63.10(e)(3) until a request to reduce reporting frequency is approved by the Administrator.
(e) In addition to the information required under the applicable sections of § 63.10, you must include in the reports required under paragraph (d) of this section the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (14) of this section.
(1) Records of the concentration of lead in each process vent, and records of the rolling 12-month flow-weighted average concentration of lead compounds in vent gases calculated monthly as required in § 63.543(a), except during the first year when the concentration is calculated using the method described in § 63.543(a)(2).
(2) Records of the concentration of total hydrocarbon and dioxins and furans in each process vent that has established limits for total hydrocarbon and dioxins and furans as required in § 63.543(c).
(3) Records of all periods when monitoring using a CEMS for lead or total hydrocarbon was not in compliance with applicable limits.
(4) Records of all alarms from the bag leak detection system specified in § 63.548.
(5) A description of the procedures taken following each bag leak detection system alarm pursuant to § 63.548(f)(1) and (2).
(6) A summary of the records maintained as part of the practices described in the standard operating procedures manual for baghouses required
under § 63.548(a), including an explanation of the periods when the procedures were not followed and the corrective actions taken.
(7) An identification of the periods when the pressure drop and water flow rate of wet scrubbers used to control process fugitive sources dropped below the levels established in § 63.548(i), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.
(8) Records of the temperature monitor output, in 3-hour block averages, for those periods when the temperature monitored pursuant to § 63.548(j) fell below the level established in § 63.548(j)(4).
(9) Certification that the plastic separation process for battery breakers required in § 63.543(m) was operated at all times the battery breaker was in service.
(10) Records of 15-minute periods when the pressure was not maintained as required in § 63.544(c) or power was lost to the continuous pressure monitoring system as required in § 63.548(k). Records of which wall is chosen as the windward wall must be included in the records required by § 63.10(c) if a total enclosure located within a larger structure is not impacted by ambient wind.
(11) If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction that occurred during the reporting period and caused or may have caused any applicable emissions limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.543(k), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(12) A summary of the fugitive dust control measures performed during the required reporting period, including an explanation of the periods when the procedures outlined in the standard operating procedures manual pursuant to § 63.545(a) were not followed and the corrective actions taken. The reports must not contain copies of the daily records required to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the standard operating procedures manuals required under § 63.545(a).
(13) Records of any periods of startup or shutdown of a furnace including an explanation of the periods when the procedures required in § 63.543(l) were not followed and the corrective actions taken.
(14) You must submit records pursuant to paragraphs (e)(14)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2 and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert_tool.html/
). Only data collected using test methods compatible with the Electronic Reporting Tool are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(ii) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test, as defined in § 63.2 and required by this subpart, you must submit the relative accuracy test audit data electronically into EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the Electronic Reporting Tool as mentioned in paragraph (e)(14)(i) of this section. Only data collected using test methods compatible with the Electronic Reporting Tool are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(iii) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (e)(14)(i) and (ii) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (e)(14)(i) and (ii) of this section in paper format.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 372, Jan. 3, 2014]
§ 63.551
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.541, 63.543 through 63.544, § 63.545, and § 63.546.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
§ 63.552
Affirmative defense to civil penalties for exceedance of emissions limit during malfunction.
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in this subpart, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for exceedances of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at § 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a)
Affirmative defense.
To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a limit, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(1) The excess emissions:
(i) Were caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner.
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices.
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for.
(iv) Were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance.
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when the applicable emissions limitations were being exceeded. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs.
(3) The frequency, amount and duration of the excess emissions (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable during periods of such emissions.
(4) If the excess emissions resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage.
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the excess emissions on ambient air quality, the environment and human health.
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices.
(7) All of the actions in response to the excess emissions were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs.
(8) At all times, the affected source was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions.
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is
to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b)
Notification.
The owner or operator of the affected source experiencing an exceedance of its emissions limit(s) during a malfunction, shall notify the Administrator by telephone or facsimile transmission as soon as possible, but no later than two business days after the initial occurrence of the malfunction, it wishes to avail itself of an affirmative defense to civil penalties for that malfunction. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense, shall also submit a written report to the Administrator within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance of the standard in this subpart to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The owner or operator may seek an extension of this deadline for up to 30 additional days by submitting a written request to the Administrator before the expiration of the 45-day period. Until a request for an extension has been approved by the Administrator, the owner or operator is subject to the requirement to submit such report within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance.
Pt. 63, Subpt. X, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart X of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart X
Reference
Applies to subpart X
Comment
63.1
Yes.
63.2
Yes.
63.3
Yes.
63.4
Yes.
63.5
Yes.
63.6(a), (b), (c)
Yes.
63.6(d)
No.
Section reserved.
63.6(e)(1)(i)
No.
See 63.543(k) for general duty requirement.
63.6(e)(1)(ii)
No.
63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes.
63.6(e)(2)
No.
Section reserved.
63.6(e)(3)
No.
63.6(f)(1)
No.
63.6(g)
Yes.
63.6(h)
No.
No opacity limits in rule.
63.6(i)
Yes.
63.6(j)
Yes.
63.7(a)-(d)
Yes.
63.7(e)(1)
No.
See 63.543(j).
63.7(e)(2)-(e)(4)
Yes.
63.7(f), (g), (h)
Yes.
63.8(a)-(b)
Yes.
63.8(c)(1)(i)
No.
See 63.543(k) for general duty requirement.
63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Yes.
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
No.
63.8(c)(2)-(d)(2)
Yes.
63.8(d)(3)
Yes, except for last sentence.
63.8(e)-(g)
Yes.
63.9(a), (b), (c), (e), (g), (h)(1)through (3), (h)(5) and (6), (i) and (j)
Yes.
63.9(f)
No.
63.9(h)(4)
No.
Reserved.
63.9(k)
Yes
Only as specified in 63.9(j).
63.10 (a)
Yes.
63.10 (b)(1)
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(i)
No.
63.10(b)(2)(ii)
No.
See 63.550 for recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of malfunctions and recordkeeping of actions taken during malfunction.
63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(b)(2)(v)
No.
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes.
63.(10)(b)(3)
Yes.
63.10(c)(1)-(9)
Yes.
63.10(c)(10)-(11)
No.
See 63.550 for recordkeeping of malfunctions.
63.10(c)(12)-(c)(14)
Yes.
63.10(c)(15)
No.
63.10(d)(1)-(4)
Yes.
63.10(d)(5)
No.
See 63.550(e)(11) for reporting of malfunctions.
63.10(e)-(f)
Yes.
63.11
No.
Flares will not be used to comply with the emission limits.
63.12 to 63.15
Yes.
[77 FR 580, Jan. 5, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 73892, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. X, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart X of Part 63—Emissions Limits for Secondary Lead Smelting Furnaces
For vents from these processes . . .
You must meet the following emissions limits . . .
a
Total hydrocarbon ppm by volume expressed as propane corrected to 4 percent carbon dioxide
Dioxin and furan (dioxins and furans) nanograms/dscm
expressed as TEQ corrected to
7 percent O
2
Collocated blast and reverberatory furnaces (new and existing)
20 ppmv
0.50 ng/dscm.
Collocated blast and reverberatory furnaces when the reverberatory furnace is not operating for units that comments construction or reconstruction before June 9, 1994
360 ppmv
170 ng/dscm.
Collocated blast and reverberatory furnaces when the reverberatory furnace is not operating for units that commence construction or reconstruction after June 9, 1994
70 ppmv
170 ng/dscm.
Blast furnaces that commence construction or reconstruction before June 9, 1994
360 ppmv
170 ng/dscm.
Blast furnaces that commence construction or reconstruction after June 9, 1994
70 ppmv
170 ng/dscm.
Blast furnaces that commence construction or reconstruction after May 19, 2011
70 ppmv
10 ng/dscm.
Reverberatory and electric furnaces that commence construction or reconstruction before May 19, 2011
12 ppmv
0.20 ng/dscm.
Reverberatory and electric furnaces that commence construction or reconstruction after May 19, 2011
12 ppmv
0.10 ng/dscm.
a
There are no standards for dioxins and furans during periods of startup and shutdown.
Pt. 63, Subpt. X, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart X of Part 63—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan congener
Toxic
equivalency
factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.0003
[79 FR 372, Jan. 3, 2014]

# Subpart Y—National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations

# Source:
60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.560
Applicability and designation of affected source.
(a)
Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards.
(1) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) and (d) of this subpart are applicable to existing and new sources with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, as that term is defined in § 63.561, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and are applicable to new sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, as that term is defined in § 63.561, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Existing sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons are not subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562(b) and (d).
(3) The recordkeeping requirements of § 63.567(j)(4) and the emission estimation requirements of § 63.565(l) apply to existing sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons.
(4) Existing sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons must meet the submerged fill standards of 46 CFR 153.282.
(b)
Reasonably available control technology (RACT) standards.
(1) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to RACT standards in § 63.562(c) and (d) of this subpart are applicable to sources with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, as that term is defined in § 63.561, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Sources with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M barrels, as that term is defined in § 63.561, are not subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562(c) and (d).
(c)
General Provisions applicability.
Owners or operators of affected sources, as that term is defined in § 63.561, of this subpart must comply with the requirements of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of this section.
(d)
Exemptions from MACT and RACT standards.
(1) This subpart does not apply to emissions resulting from marine tank vessel loading operations, as that term is defined in § 63.561, of commodities with vapor pressures less than 10.3 kilopascals (kPa) (1.5 pounds per square inch, absolute) (psia) at standard conditions, 20 °C and 760 millimeters Hg (mm Hg).
(2) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b)(2), (3) and (4) and to the RACT standards in § 63.562(c)(3) and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations where emissions are reduced by using a vapor balancing system, as that term is defined in § 63.561. The provisions pertaining to the vapor collection system, ship-to-shore compatibility, and vapor tightness of marine tank vessels in § 63.562(b)(1) and (c)(2) do apply.
(3) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations that are contiguous with refinery operations at sources subject to and complying with subpart CC of this part, National Emissions Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants from Petroleum Refineries, except to the extent that any such provisions of this subpart are made applicable by subpart CC of this part.
(4) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to benzene emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations that are subject to and complying with 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, National Emissions Standards for Benzene Emissions from Benzene Transfer Operations, except that benzene emissions or other HAP emissions (i.e., nonbenzene HAP emissions) from marine tank vessel loading operations that are not subject to subpart BB are subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(5) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations at loading berths that only transfer liquids containing organic HAP as impurities, as that term is defined in § 63.561.
(6) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations at existing offshore loading terminals, as that term is defined in § 63.561, however existing offshore loading terminals must meet the submerged fill standards of 46 CFR 153.282.
(7) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to ballasting operations, as that term is defined in § 63.561.
(e)
Compliance dates—(1) MACT standards compliance dates, except the Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT) source.
(i) A new or existing source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except the VMT source, and a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, except the VMT source, that has an initial startup date on or before September 20, 1999 shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) no later than 4 years after the effective date.
(ii) A new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except the VMT source, and a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, except the VMT source, that has an initial startup date after September 20, 1999 shall comply with provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) immediately upon startup.
(iii) A source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons that increases its emissions subsequent to September 20, 1999 such that it becomes a source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) within 3 years following the exceedance of the threshold level.
(iv) Existing sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, and existing offshore loading terminals, shall comply with the submerged fill requirements in paragraph (a)(4) and (d)(6) of this section by April 23, 2012.
(2)
RACT standards compliance dates, except the VMT source.
(i) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, with an initial startup date on or before September 21, 1998 shall comply with § 63.562(c)(1) no later than 2 years after the effective date.
(ii) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, with an initial startup date on or before September 21, 1998 shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the RACT standards in § 63.562(c) other than § 63.562(c)(1), no later than 3 years after the effective date.
(iii) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, with an initial startup date after September 21, 1998 shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the RACT standards in § 63.562(c) immediately upon startup.
(iv) A source with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M barrels that increases its throughput subsequent to September 21, 1998 such that it becomes a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the RACT standards in § 63.562(c) within 3 years following the exceedance of the threshold levels.
(v) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels may apply for approval from the Administrator for an extension of the compliance date of up to 1 year if it can demonstrate that the additional time is necessary for installation of the control device.
(3)
MACT and RACT compliance dates for the VMT source.
The VMT source, as that term is defined in § 63.561, shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT and RACT standards in § 63.562(d) no later than 30 months after the effective date.
Table 1 to § 63.560—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart Y
Reference
Applies to affected sources in subpart Y
Comment
63.1(a)(1)
Yes
Additional terms are defined in § 63.561; when overlap between subparts A and Y occurs, subpart Y takes precedence.
63.1(a)(2)
Yes
63.1(a)(3)
Yes
63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Subpart Y clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to sources subject to subpart Y in this table.
.63.1(a)(5)
No
Reserved.
63.1(a)(6)
Yes
63.1(a)(7)
Yes
63.1(a)(8)
Yes
63.1(a)(9)
No
Reserved.
63.1(a)(10)
Yes
63.1(a)(11)
Yes
§ 63.567(a) also allows report submissions via facsimile and on electronic media.
63.1(a)(12)
Yes
63.1(a)(13)
Yes
63.1(a)(14)
Yes
63.1(b)(1)
Yes
63.1(b)(2)
Yes
63.1(b)(3)
No
§ 63.560 specifies applicability.
63.1(c)(1)
Yes
Subpart Y clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to sources subject to subpart Y in this table.
63.1(c)(2)
Yes
Subpart Y is not applicable to area sources.
63.1(c)(3)
No
Reserved.
63.1(c)(4)
Yes
63.1(c)(5)
No
§ 63.560 specifies applicability.
63.1(c)(6)
Yes
63.1(d)
No
Reserved.
63.1(e)
Yes
63.2
Yes
Additional terms are defined in § 63.561; when overlap between subparts A and Y occurs, subpart Y takes precedence.
63.3
Yes
Other units used in subpart Y are defined in the text of subpart Y.
63.4(a)(1)
Yes
63.4(a)(2)
Yes
63.4(a)(3)
Yes
63.4(a)(4)
No
Reserved.
63.4(a)(5)
Yes
63.4(b)
Yes
63.4(c)
Yes
63.5(a)
Yes
63.5(b)(1)(i)
Yes
63.5(b)(1)(ii)
No
63.5(b)(2)
No
Reserved.
63.5(b)(3)
Yes
63.5(b)(4)-(5)
No
63.5(b)(6)
Yes
63.5(c)
No
Reserved.
63.5(d)(1)(i)
No
See § 63.566(b)(2).
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(A)(H)
Yes
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(I)
No
Reserved.
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(J)
Yes
63.5(d)(1)(iii)
Yes
63.5(d)(2)-(4)
Yes
63.5(e)
Yes
63.5(f)(1)(i) and (ii)
Yes
63.5(f)(1)(iii) and (iv)
No
63.5(f)(2)
No
See § 63.566(c).
63.6(a)(1)
Yes
63.6(a)(2)
No
§ 63.560 specifies applicability.
63.6(b)(1)-(5)
No
§ 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.
63.6(b)(6)
No
Reserved.
63.6(b)(7)
No
§ 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.
63.6(c)(1)
No
§ 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.
63.6(c)(2)
No
63.6(c)(3)-(4)
No
Reserved.
63.6(c)(5)
No
§ 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.
63.6(d)
No
Reserved.
63.6(e)
No
See § 63.562(e).
63.6(f)(1)
No.
63.6(f)(2)(i)
Yes
63.6(f)(2)(ii)
No
63.6(f)(2)(iii)
Yes
63.6(f)(2)(iv)
Yes
63.6(f)(2)(v)
No
See § 63.562(e)(1).
63.6(f)(3)
Yes
63.6(g)
Yes
63.6(h)
No
No opacity monitoring is required under subpart Y.
63.6(i)(1)-(3)
Yes
63.6(i)(4)(i)(A)
No
63.6(i)(4)(i)(B)
Yes
63.6(i)(4)(ii)
No
63.6(i)(5)-(12)
Yes
63.6(i)(13)
No
63.6(i)(14)
Yes
63.6(i)(15)
No
Reserved.
63.6(i)(16)
Yes
63.6(j)
Yes
63.7(a)(1)
Yes
63.7(a)(2)(i)-(iv)
No
See § 63.563(b)(1).
63.7(a)(2)(v)
Yes
63.7(a)(2)(vi)
No
63.7(a)(2)(vii)-(viii)
No
Reserved.
63.7(a)(2)(ix)
No
63.7(a)(3)
Yes
63.7(b)
Yes
63.7(c)(1)-(2)
Yes
The site-specific test plan must be submitted only if requested by the Administrator.
63.7(c)(3)(i)-(ii)(A)
Yes
63.7(c)(3)(ii)(B)
No
See § 63.565(m)(2).
63.7(c)(3)(iii)
Yes
63.7(c)(4)
Yes
63.7(d)
Yes
63.7(e)(1)
No
See 63.563(b)(1). Any cross reference to 63.7(e)(1) in any other general provision incorporated by reference shall be treated as a cross-reference to 63.563(b)(1).
63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Yes.
63.7(f)
Yes
63.7(g)(1)
Yes
63.7(g)(2)
No
Reserved.
63.7(g)(3)
Yes
63.7(h)
Yes
63.8(a)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.8(a)(3)
No
Reserved.
63.8(a)(4)
Yes
63.8(b)(1)
Yes
63.8(b)(2)
No
63.8(b)(3)
Yes
63.8(c)(1)
No.
63.8(c)(2)
Yes
63.8(c)(3)
Yes
63.8(c)(4)
No
See § 63.564(a)(3).
63.8(c)(5)
No
63.8(c)(6)
Yes
See also performance specifications for continuous monitoring systems § 63.564(a)(4).
63.8(c)(7)(i)(A)-(B)
Yes
See also § 63.564(a)(5).
63.8(c)(7)(i)(C)
No
63.8(c)(7)(ii)
Yes
63.8(c)(8)
No
See § 63.564(a)(5).
63.8(d)
No
See § 63.562(e)(2)(iv).
63.8(e)(1)-(4)
Yes
63.8(e)(5)(i)
Yes
63.8(e)(5)(ii)
No
63.8(f)(1)
Yes
63.8(f)(2)(i)-(vii)
Yes
63.8(f)(2)(viii)
No
63.8(f)(2)(ix)
Yes
63.8(f)(3)-(6)
Yes
63.8(g)
Yes
63.9(a)(1)
Yes
63.9(a)(2)
Yes
63.9(a)(3)
Yes
63.9(a)(4)
Yes
63.9(b)(1)(i)
Yes
63.9(b)(1)(ii)
No
See § 63.567(b)(1)
63.9(b)(1)(iii)
Yes
63.9(b)(2)
No
See § 63.567(b)(2).
63.9(b)(3)
No
See § 63.567(b)(3).
63.9(b)(4)
No
See § 63.567(b)(4).
63.9(b)(5)
No
See § 63.567(b)(4).
63.9(c)
No
See § 63.567(c).
63.9(d)
No
63.9(e)
Yes
63.9(f)
No
63.9(g)(1)
Yes
63.9(g)(2)
No
63.9(g)(3)
Yes
63.9(h)(1)-(3)
Yes
63.9(h)(4)
No
Reserved.
63.9(h)(5)-(6)
Yes
63.9(i)
Yes
63.9(j)
Yes
63.9(k)
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
63.10(a)
Yes
63.10(b)(1)
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(i)-(ii)
No
See 63.567(m).
63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(iv)
No
63.10(b)(2)(v)
No
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xiv)
Yes
63.10(b)(3)
No
See § 63.567(j)(4).
63.10(c)(1)
Yes
63.10(c)(2)-(4)
No
Reserved.
63.10(c)(5)
Yes
63.10(c)(6)
No
See § 63.564(a)(5).
63.10(c)(7)
No
63.10(c)(8)
Yes
63.10(c)(9)
No
Reserved.
63.10(c)(10)-(11)
No
See 63.567(m) for reporting malfunctions. Any cross-reference to 63.10(c)(10) or 63.10(c)(11) in any other general provision incorporated by reference shall be treated as a cross-reference to 63.567(m).
63.10(c)(12)-(13)
Yes.
63.10(c)(14)
No
See § 63.562(d)(2)(iv).
63.10(c)(15)
No
63.10(d)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.10(d)(3)
No
See § 63.567(d).
63.10(d)(4)
Yes
63.10(d)(5)
No
63.(10)(e)(1)
Yes
63.10(e)(2)(i)
Yes
63.10(e)(2)(ii)
No
63.10(e)(3)(i)-(v)
No
See § 63.567(e)
63.10(e)(3)(vi).
Yes
63.10(e)(3)(vii)-(viii)
No
See § 63.567(e)
63.10(e)(4)
No
63.10(f)
Yes
63.11
Yes
63.12-63.15
Yes
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 22595, Apr. 21, 2011; 80 FR 75237, Dec. 1, 2015; 85 FR 73892, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.561
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act or in subpart A of this part.
Affected source
means a source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, a new major source offshore loading
terminal, a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, or the VMT source, that is subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Air pollution control device
or
control device
means a combustion device or vapor recovery device.
Ballasting operations
means the introduction of ballast water into a cargo tank of a tankship or oceangoing barge.
Baseline operating parameter
means a minimum or maximum value of a process parameter, established for a control device during a performance test where the control device is meeting the required emissions reduction or established as the manufacturer recommended operating parameter, that, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameters, determines if a control device is operating properly.
Boiler
means a device that combusts any fuel and produces steam or heats water or any other heat transfer medium. This term includes any duct burner that combusts fuel and is part of a combined cycle system.
Car-seal
means a seal that is placed on a device used to change the position of a valve (e.g., from open to closed) in such a way that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal.
Combustion device
means all equipment, including, but not limited to, thermal incinerators, catalytic incinerators, flares, boilers, and process heaters used for combustion or destruction of organic vapors.
Commenced
means, with respect to construction of an air pollution control device, that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of construction or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of construction.
Commodity
means a distinct product that a source loads onto marine tank vessels.
Continuous
means, with respect to monitoring, reading and recording (either in hard copy or computer readable form) of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes.
Crude oil
means a naturally occurring mixture consisting predominantly of hydrocarbons and/or sulfur, nitrogen, and oxygen derivatives of hydrocarbons that is removed from the earth in a liquid state or is capable of being so removed.
Exceedance
or
Variance
means, with respect to parametric monitoring, the operating parameter of the air pollution control device that is monitored as an indication of proper operation of the control device is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline parameter given in § 63.563(b)(4) through (9).
Excess emissions
means, with respect to emissions monitoring, the concentration of the outlet stream of the air pollution control device is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline concentration given in § 63.563(b)(4) through (9).
Flow indicator
means a device that indicates whether gas flow is present in a line or vent system.
Gasoline
means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kPa (4.0 psia) or greater, that is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.
Impurity
means HAP substances that are present in a commodity or that are produced in a process coincidentally with the primary product or commodity and that are 0.5 percent total HAP by weight or less. An impurity does not serve a useful purpose in the production or use of the primary product or commodity and is not isolated.
Leak
means a reading of 10,000 parts per million volume (ppmv) or greater as methane that is determined using the test methods in Method 21, appendix A of part 60 of this chapter.
Lightering
or
Lightering operation
means the offshore transfer of a bulk liquid cargo from one marine tank vessel to another vessel.
Loading berth
means the loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves necessary to fill marine tank vessels. The loading berth includes those items necessary for an offshore loading terminal.
Loading cycle
means the time period from the beginning of filling a single marine tank vessel until commodity flow to the marine tank vessel ceases.
Maintenance allowance
means a period of time that an affected source is allowed to perform maintenance on the loading berth without controlling emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.
Marine tank vessel loading operation
means any operation under which a commodity is bulk loaded onto a marine tank vessel from a terminal, which may include the loading of multiple marine tank vessels during one loading operation. Marine tank vessel loading operations do not include refueling of marine tank vessels.
Marine vessel
or
Marine tank vessel
means any tank ship or tank barge that transports liquid product such as gasoline or crude oil in bulk.
Nonvapor-tight
means any marine tank vessel that does not pass the required vapor-tightness test.
Offshore loading terminal
means a location that has at least one loading berth that is 0.81 km (0.5 miles) or more from the shore that is used for mooring a marine tank vessel and loading liquids from shore.
Primary fuel
means the fuel that provides the principal heat input to the device. To be considered primary, the fuel must be able to sustain operation of the device without the addition of other fuels.
Process heater
means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that are heated to produce steam.
Recovery device
means an individual unit of equipment, including, but not limited to, a carbon adsorber, condenser/refrigeration unit, or absorber that is capable of and used for the purpose of removing vapors and recovering liquids or chemicals.
Routine loading
means, with respect to the VMT source, marine tank vessel loading operations that occur as part of normal facility operation over a loading berth when no loading berths are inoperable due to maintenance.
Secondary fuel
means any fuel other than the primary fuel. The secondary fuel provides supplementary heat in addition to the heat provided by the primary fuel and is generally fired through a burner other than the primary burner.
Source(s)
means any location where at least one dock or loading berth is bulk loading onto marine tank vessels, except offshore drilling platforms and lightering operations.
Source(s) with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons
means major source(s) having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
(1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 and less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l) of this subpart; and
(2) After the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 1999 and less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined calculated annually after September 20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l) of this subpart.
Source(s) with emissions of 10 or 25 tons
means major source(s) having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessels loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
(1) Prior to the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or more of each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all HAP combined calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l); or
(2) After the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or more of each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 1999 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all HAP combined calculated annually after September
20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l).
Source(s) with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M barrels
means source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
(1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters (10 million (M) barrels) of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis and of less than 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) of crude oil on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996; and
(2) After the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) of gasoline annually and of less than 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.
Source(s) with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels
means source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
(1) Prior to the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) or more of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis or of 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or more of crude oil on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996; or
(2) After the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) or more of gasoline annually or of 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or more of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.
Terminal
means all loading berths at any land or sea based structure(s) that loads liquids in bulk onto marine tank vessels.
Twenty-four-month (24-month) annual average basis
means annual HAP emissions, with respect to MACT standards, or annual loading throughput, with respect to RACT standards, from marine tank vessel loading operations averaged over a 24-month period.
Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT) source
means the major source that is permitted under the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (TAPAA) (43 U.S.C. § 1651
et seq.
). The source is located in Valdez, Alaska in Prince William Sound.
Vapor balancing system
means a vapor collection system or piping system that is designed to collect organic HAP vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel loading operations and that is designed to route the collected organic HAP vapors to the storage vessel from which the liquid being loaded originated or to compress collected organic HAP vapors and commingle with the raw feed of a process unit.
Vapor collection system
means any equipment located at the source, i.e., at the terminal, that is not open to the atmosphere, that is composed of piping, connections, and flow inducing devices, and that is used for containing and transporting vapors displaced during the loading of marine tank vessels to a control device or for vapor balancing. This does not include the vapor collection system that is part of any marine vessel vapor collection manifold system.
Vapor-tight marine vessel
means a marine tank vessel that has demonstrated within the preceding 12 months to have no leaks. A marine tank vessel loaded at less than atmospheric pressure is assumed to be vapor tight for the purpose of this standard.
Volatile organic compounds
or
VOC
is as defined in 40 CFR 51.100(s) of this chapter.
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 22596, Apr. 21, 2011]
§ 63.562
Standards.
(a) The emissions limitations in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section apply during marine tank vessel loading operations.
(b)
MACT standards, except for the VMT source
—(1)(i)
Vapor collection system of the terminal.
The owner or operator of a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an existing or new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall equip each terminal with a vapor collection system that is designed to collect HAP vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel loading operations and to prevent HAP vapors collected at one loading berth from passing through another loading berth to the atmosphere, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(ii)
Ship-to-shore compatibility.
The owner or operator of a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an existing or new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall limit marine
tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(iii)
Vapor tightness of marine vessels.
The owner or operator of a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an existing or new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are vapor tight and to those vessels that are connected to the vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(2)
MACT standards for existing sources with emissions of 10 or 25 tons.
The owner or operator of an existing source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except offshore loading terminals and the VMT source, shall reduce captured HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations by 97 weight-percent, as determined using methods in § 63.565 (d) and (l).
(3)
MACT standards for new sources.
The owner or operator of a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons or a new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except offshore loading terminals and the VMT source, shall reduce HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations by 98 weight-percent, as determined using methods in § 63.565 (d) and (l).
(4)
MACT standards for new major source offshore loading terminals.
The owner or operator of a new major source offshore loading terminal shall reduce HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations by 95 weight-percent, as determined using methods in § 63.565 (d) and (l).
(5)
Prevention of carbon adsorber emissions during regeneration.
The owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (b)(2), (3), or (4) shall prevent HAP emissions from escaping to the atmosphere from the regeneration of the carbon bed when using a carbon adsorber to control HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.
(6)
Maintenance allowance for loading berths.
The owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (b)(2), (3) or (4), may apply for approval to the Administrator for a maintenance allowance for loading berths based on a percent of annual throughput or annual marine tank vessel loading operation time for commodities not exempted in § 63.560(d). The owner or operator shall maintain records for all maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment. The Administrator will consider the following in approving the maintenance allowance:
(i) The owner or operator expects to be in violation of the emissions standards due to maintenance;
(ii) Due to conditions beyond the reasonable control of the owner or operator, compliance with the emissions standards during maintenance would result in unreasonable economic hardship;
(iii) The economic hardship cannot be justified by the resulting air quality benefit;
(iv) The owner or operator has given due consideration to curtailing marine vessel loading operations during maintenance;
(v) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will endeavor to reduce emissions from other loading berths that are controlled as well as from the loading berth the owner or operator is seeking the maintenance allowance; and
(vi) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will monitor and report emissions from the loading berth to which the maintenance allowance applies.
(c)
RACT standards, except the VMT source
—(1)
Commencement of construction.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, with an initial startup date on or before September 21, 1998 shall provide the Agency no later than 2 years after the effective date with proof that it has commenced construction of its vapor collection system and air pollution control device.
(2)(i)
Vapor collection system of the terminal.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall equip each terminal with a vapor collection system that is designed to collect VOC vapors displaced from marine tank vessels
during loading and to prevent VOC vapors collected at one loading berth from passing through another loading berth to the atmosphere, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(ii)
Ship-to-shore compatibility.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(iii)
Vapor tightness of marine vessels.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are vapor-tight and to those vessels that are connected to the vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(3)
RACT standard for sources with throughput of 10 M or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, shall reduce captured VOC emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations by 98 weight-percent when using a combustion device or reduce captured VOC emissions by 95 weight-percent when using a recovery device, as determined using methods in § 63.565(d) and (l).
(4) The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, may meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) by reducing gasoline loading emissions to, at most, 1,000 ppmv outlet VOC concentration.
(5)
Prevention of carbon adsorber emissions during regeneration.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall prevent HAP emissions from escaping to the atmosphere from the regeneration of the carbon bed when using a carbon adsorber to control HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.
(6)
Maintenance allowance for loading berths.
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels may apply for approval to the Administrator for a maintenance allowance for loading berths based on a percent of annual throughput or annual marine tank vessel loading operation time for commodities not exempted in § 63.560(d). The owner or operator shall maintain records for all maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment. The Administrator will consider the following in approving the maintenance allowance:
(i) The owner or operator expects to be in violation of the emissions standards due to maintenance;
(ii) Due to conditions beyond the reasonable control of the owner or operator, compliance with the emissions standards during maintenance would result in unreasonable economic hardship;
(iii) The economic hardship cannot be justified by the resulting air quality benefit;
(iv) The owner or operator has given due consideration to curtailing marine vessel loading operations during maintenance;
(v) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will endeavor to reduce emissions from other loading berths that are controlled as well as from the loading berth the owner or operator is seeking the maintenance allowance; and
(vi) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will monitor and report emissions from the loading berth to which the maintenance allowance applies.
(d)
MACT and RACT standards for the VMT source
—(1)(i)
Vapor collection system of the terminal.
The owner or operator of the VMT source shall equip each terminal subject under paragraph (d)(2) with a vapor collection system that is designed to collect HAP vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel loading operations and to prevent HAP vapors collected at one loading berth from passing through another loading berth to the atmosphere, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(ii)
Ship-to-shore compatibility.
The owner or operator of the VMT source shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations at berths subject under
paragraph (d)(2) of this section to those vessels that are equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(iii)
Vapor tightness of marine vessels.
The owner or operator of the VMT source shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations at berths subject under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to those vessels that are vapor-tight and to those vessels that are connected to the vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under § 63.560(d).
(2) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall reduce captured HAP and VOC emissions by 98 weight-percent, as determined using methods in § 63.565(d) and (l) for loading berths subject under this paragraph according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv):
(i) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall equip at least two loading berths and any additional berths indicated pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iii) with a vapor collection system and air pollution control device and shall load marine tank vessels over loading berths equipped with a vapor collection system and control device to the maximum extent practicable. The owner or operator shall equip all loading berths that will be used for routine loading after March 19, 1998 with a vapor collection system and control device if the annual average daily loading rate for all loading berths exceeds the limits in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.
(A) For 1995, 1,630,000 barrels per day; and
(B) For 1996, 1,546,000 barrels per day; and
(C) For 1997, 1,445,000 barrels per day.
(ii) Maximum extent practicable means that the total annual average daily loading over all loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device shall not exceed the totals in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B):
(A)
Loading allowances for marine tank vessel loading operations at loading berths not equipped with control devices.
The following maximum annual average daily loading rate for routine loading at loading berths not equipped with control devices in any of the following years shall not exceed:
(
1
) For 1998, 275,000 barrels per day;
(
2
) For 1999, 205,000 barrels per day;
(
3
) For 2000, 118,000 barrels per day;
(
4
) For 2001, 39,000 barrels per day; and
(
5
) For 2002 and subsequent years, no marine tank vessel loading operations shall be performed at berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, except as allowed for maintenance under paragraph (B).
(B)
Maintenance allowances for loading berths subject under paragraph (d)(2)(i).
Beginning in the year 2000, the owner or operator of the VMT source may have a maximum of 40 calendar days per calendar year use of loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, in accordance with the limits in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(
a
), (
b
), or (
c
), to allow for maintenance of loading berths subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i). Beginning in the year 2002, the total annual average daily loading of crude oil over all loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device shall not exceed the amount stated in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(
b
). The 40 days allowed for maintenance shall be converted into a compliance measure of annual average daily loading over the loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device as follows:
(
1
) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at the facility was greater than or equal to 1,100,000 barrels per day in the prior calendar year, the maintenance allowance shall not exceed an annual average daily loading of 60,000 barrels per day.
(
2
) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at the facility was less than 1,100,000 barrels per day and greater than or equal to 550,000 barrels per day in the prior calendar year, the maintenance allowance for the calendar year shall not exceed Q
m
:
ER19SE95.000
Where:
Q
m
= maintenance allowance, barrels per day
P = prior calendar year's average daily volume of crude oil loaded at the facility, barrels per day.
(
3
) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at the facility was less than 550,000 barrels per day in the prior calendar year, there shall be no maintenance allowance.
(iii) If the average daily loading rate for the loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device is greater than the combined amounts in any year listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (C) and (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B), then the owner or operator of the VMT source shall equip all loading berths used for routine loading with a vapor collection system and control device within 2 years of the exceedance except that in an emergency situation the Administrator may, instead of requiring controls, approve an alternative plan to reduce loading over the unequipped berth(s) to a level which will ensure compliance with the applicable limit. Beginning in the year 2002, the owner or operator of the VMT source shall equip all uncontrolled loading berths used for marine tank vessel loading operations beyond the maintenance allowance in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) with a vapor collection system and control device.
(iv) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall develop a program to communicate to relevant facility operations and marine transportation personnel and engage their active and consistent participation in honoring the intent and goal of minimizing loaded volumes over the unequipped berths and maximizing the loaded volumes at the berths equipped with a vapor collection system and control device to prevent exceedance of the load volume limits in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B). This program is to be presented semi-annually during the first year of compliance and annually thereafter until the use of unequipped berths for routine loading is no longer required.
(e) Operation and maintenance requirements for air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment for affected sources. At all times, owners or operators of affected sources shall operate and maintain a source, including associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(1) The Administrator will determine compliance with design, equipment, work practice, or operational emission standards by evaluating an owner or operator's conformance with operation and maintenance requirements.
(2) The owner or operator of an affected source shall develop a written operation and maintenance plan that describes in detail a program of corrective action for varying (i.e., exceeding baseline parameters) air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, based on monitoring requirements in § 63.564, used to comply with these emissions standards. The plan shall also identify all routine or otherwise predictable continuous monitoring system (thermocouples, pressure transducers, continuous emissions monitors (CEMS), etc.) variances.
(i) The plan shall specify procedures (preventive maintenance) to be followed to ensure that pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment functions properly and variances of the control equipment and monitoring equipment are minimal.
(ii) The plan shall identify all operating parameters to be monitored and recorded for the air pollution control device as indicators of proper operation and shall establish the frequency at which the parameters will be monitored (see § 63.564).
(iii) Owners or operators of affected sources shall incorporate a standardized inspection schedule for each component of the control device used to comply with the emissions standards in § 63.562(b), (c), and (d). To satisfy the requirements of this paragraph, the owner or operator may use the inspection schedule recommended by the vendor of the control system or any other technical publication regarding the operation of the control system.
(iv) Owners or operators shall develop and implement a continuous monitoring system (CMS) quality control program. The owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the CMS performance evaluation required in § 63.8(e) of subpart A of this part. Each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for initial and any subsequent calibration of the CMS; determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the CMS; preventive maintenance of the CMS, including spare parts inventory; data recording, calculations, and reporting; and accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods. The owner or operation shall maintain records of the procedures that are part of the quality control program developed and implemented for CMS.
(3) Based on the results of the determination made under paragraph (e)(2), the Administrator may require that an owner or operator of an affected source make changes to the operation and maintenance plan for that source. Revisions may be required if the plan:
(i) Does not address a variance of the air pollution control equipment or monitoring equipment that has occurred that increases emissions;
(ii) Fails to provide for operation during a variance of the air pollution control equipment or the monitoring equipment in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; or
(iii) Does not provide adequate procedures for correcting a variance of the air pollution control equipment or monitoring equipment as soon as reasonable.
(4) If the operation and maintenance plan fails to address or inadequately addresses a variance event at the time the plan was initially developed, the owner or operator shall revise the operation and maintenance plan within 45 working days after such an event occurs. The revised plan shall include procedures for operating and maintaining the air pollution control equipment or monitoring equipment during similar variance events and a program for corrective action for such events.
(5) The operation and maintenance plan shall be developed by the source's compliance date. The owner or operator shall keep the written operation and maintenance plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for the life of the source. In addition, if the operation and maintenance plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection upon request by the Administrator for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.
(6) To satisfy the requirements of the operation and maintenance plan, the owner or operator may use the source's standard operating procedures (SOP) manual, an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) plan, or other existing plans provided the alternative plans meet the requirements of this section and are made available for inspection when requested by the Administrator.
(7) In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in this subpart, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for exceedances of such standards that are caused by a malfunction, as defined in § 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if the respondent fails to meet its burden of proving all the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(i) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a limit, the owners or operators of a facility must timely meet the notification requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(ii) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(A) The excess emissions were caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, or a process to operate in a normal and usual manner; and could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices; and did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for;
and were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance;
(B) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when the applicable emission limitations were being exceeded. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs;
(C) The frequency, amount and duration of the excess emissions (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable during periods of such emissions;
(D) If the excess emissions resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage;
(E) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the excess emissions on ambient air quality, the environment, and human health;
(F) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices;
(G) All of the actions in response to the excess emissions were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs;
(H) At all times, the affected facility was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(I) The owner or operator has prepared a written root cause analysis, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using the best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(ii)
Notification.
The owner or operator of the facility experiencing an exceedance of its emission limit(s) during a malfunction shall notify the Administrator by telephone or facsimile (FAX) transmission as soon as possible, but no later than 2 business days after the initial occurrence of the malfunction, if it wishes to avail itself of an affirmative defense to civil penalties for that malfunction. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall also submit a written report to the Administrator within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance of the standard in this subpart to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section. The owner or operator may seek an extension of this deadline for up to 30 additional days by submitting a written request to the Administrator before the expiration of the 45 day period. Until a request for an extension has been approved by the Administrator, the owner or operator is subject to the requirement to submit such report within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance.
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 37350, June 23, 2003; 71 FR 20457, Apr. 20, 2006; 76 FR 22596, Apr. 21, 2011]
§ 63.563
Compliance and performance testing.
(a) The following procedures shall be used to determine compliance with the emissions limits under § 63.562(b)(1), (c)(2), and (d)(1):
(1)
Vent stream by-pass requirements for the terminal's vapor collection system.
(i) In accordance with § 63.562(b)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i), and (d)(1)(i), each valve in the terminal's vapor collection system that would route displaced vapors to the atmosphere, either directly or indirectly, shall be secured closed during marine tank vessel loading operations either by using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration, or the by-pass line from the valve shall be equipped with a flow indicator, except for those valves used for pressure/vacuum relief, analyzers, instrumentation devices, sampling, and venting for maintenance. Marine tank vessel loading operations shall not be performed with open by-pass lines.
(ii) Repairs shall be made to valves, car-seals, or closure mechanisms no later than 15 days after a change in the position of the valve or a break in the car-seal or closure mechanism is detected or no later than prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation, whichever is later.
(2)
Ship-to-shore compatibility of vapor collection systems.
Following the date on
which the initial performance test is completed, marine tank vessel loading operations must be performed only if the marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment is compatible to the terminal's vapor collection system; marine tank vessel loading operations must be performed only when the marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment is connected to the terminal's vapor collection system, as required in § 63.562(b)(1)(ii), (c)(2)(ii), and (d)(1)(ii).
(3)
Pressure/vacuum settings for the marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall demonstrate compliance with operating pressure requirements of 33 CFR 154.814 using the procedures in § 63.565(b).
(4)
Vapor-tightness requirements of the marine vessel.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall use the procedures in paragraph (a)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section to ensure that marine tank vessels are vapor tight, as required in § 63.562(b)(1)(iii), (c)(2)(iii), and (d)(1)(iii).
(i)
Pressure test documentation for determining vapor tightness of the marine vessel.
The owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under § 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall provide a copy of the vapor-tightness pressure test documentation described in § 63.567(i) for each marine tank vessel prior to loading. The date of the test listed in the documentation must be within the preceding 12 months, and the test must be conducted in accordance with the procedures in § 63.565(c)(1). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the affected source must check vapor-tightness pressure test documentation for marine tank vessels loaded at positive pressure.
(ii)
Leak test documentation for determining vapor tightness of the marine vessel.
If no documentation of the vapor tightness pressure test as described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section is available, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under § 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall provide the leak test documentation described in § 63.567(i) for each marine tank vessel prior to loading. The date of the test listed in the documentation must be within the preceding 12 months, and the test must be conducted in accordance with the procedures in § 63.565(c)(2). If the marine tank vessel has failed its most recent vapor-tightness leak test at that terminal, the owner or operator of the non-vapor-tight marine tank vessel shall provide documentation that the leaks detected during the previous vapor-tightness test have been repaired and documented with a successful vapor-tightness leak test described in § 63.565(c)(2) conducted during loading. If the owner or operator of the marine tank vessel can document that repair is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel, the owner or operator of the affected source may load the marine tank vessel. Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, an affected source must check the vapor-tightness leak test documentation for marine tank vessels loaded at positive pressure.
(iii)
Leak test performed during loading using Method 21 for determining vapor tightness of the marine vessel.
If no documentation of vapor tightness as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section is available, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under § 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall perform a leak test of the marine tank vessel during marine tank vessel loading operation using the procedures described in § 63.565(c)(2).
(A) If no leak is detected, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel shall complete the documentation described in § 63.567(i) prior to departure of the vessel.
(B) If a leak is detected, the owner or operator of the marine tank vessel shall document the vapor-tightness failure for the marine tank vessel prior to departure of the vessel. The leaking component shall be repaired prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation at a controlled terminal unless the repair is technically infeasible
without cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel. If the owner or operator of the vessel provides documentation that repair of such equipment is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel, the equipment responsible for the leak will be excluded from future Method 21 tests until repairs are effected. A copy of this documentation shall be maintained by the owner or operator of the affected source. Repair of the equipment responsible for the leak shall occur the next time the vessel is cleaned and gas freed or dry-docked. For repairs that are technically feasible without dry-docking the vessel, the owner or operator of the affected source shall not load the vessel again unless the marine tank vessel owner or operator can document that the equipment responsible for the leak has been repaired.
(iv)
Negative pressure loading.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall ensure that a marine tank vessel is loaded with the product tank below atmospheric pressure (i.e., at negative gauge pressure). The pressure shall be measured between the facility's vapor connection and its manual isolation valve, and the measured pressure must be below atmospheric pressure. Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, marine tank vessel loading operations for nonvapor-tight vessels must be performed below atmospheric pressure (i.e., at negative gauge pressure) in the product tank.
(b)
Compliance determination for affected sources.
The following procedures shall be used to determine compliance with the emissions limits under § 63.562(b), (c), and (d).
(1)
Initial performance test.
An initial performance test shall be conducted using the procedures listed in § 63.7 of subpart A of this part according to the applicability in Table 1 of § 63.560, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in § 63.565. The initial performance test shall be conducted within 180 days after the compliance date for the specific affected source. During this performance test, sources subject to MACT standards under § 63.562(b)(2), (3), (4), and (5), and (d)(2) shall determine the reduction of HAP emissions, as VOC, for all combustion or recovery devices other than flares. Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Sources subject to RACT standards under § 63.562(c)(3), (4), and (5), and (d)(2) shall determine the reduction of VOC emissions for all combustion or recovery devices other than flares.
(2)
Performance test exemptions.
An initial performance test required in this section and in § 63.565(d) and the continuous monitoring in § 63.564(e) is not required in the following cases:
(i) When a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 Megawatts or less is used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or (d)(2) and the vent stream is used as the primary fuel or with the primary fuel;
(ii) When a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 Megawatts or greater is used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3) or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or (d)(2); or
(iii) When a boiler subject to 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, “Hazardous Waste Burned in Industrial Furnaces,” that has demonstrated 99.99 percent destruction or recovery efficiency is used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or (d)(2).
(3)
Operation and maintenance inspections.
If the 3-hour or 3-cycle block average operating parameters in paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section, outside the acceptable operating ranges, are measured and recorded, i.e., variances of the pollution control device or monitoring equipment, the owner or operator of the affected source shall perform an unscheduled inspection of the control device and monitoring equipment and review of the parameter monitoring data. The owner or operator of the affected source shall perform an inspection and review when total parameter variance time for the control device is greater than 10 percent of the operating time
for marine tank vessel loading operations on a 30-day, rolling-average basis. The inspection and review shall be conducted within 24 hours after passing the allowable variance time of 10 percent. The inspection checklist from the requirements of § 63.562(e)(2)(iii) and the monitoring data from requirements in §§ 63.562(e)(2)(ii) and 63.564 should be used to identify any maintenance problems that may be associated with the variance. The unscheduled inspection should encompass all components of the control device and monitoring equipment that can be inspected while in operation. If any maintenance problem is identified during the inspection, the owner or operator of the affected source must take corrective action (e.g., adjustments to operating controls, etc.) as soon as practicable. If no immediate maintenance problems are identified from the inspection performed while the equipment is operating, a complete inspection in accordance with § 63.562(e)(2) must be conducted prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation and corrective action (e.g., replacement of defective parts) must be taken as soon as practicable for any maintenance problem identified during the complete inspection.
(4)
Combustion device, except flare.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC concentration from the combustion device used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the test methods in § 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i)
Outlet VOC concentration limit for required percent combustion efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described in § 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average outlet VOC concentration as determined in § 63.564(e)(1) no more than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
(ii)
Baseline temperature for required percent combustion efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline temperature using the procedures described in § 63.565(f). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with the block average temperature as determined in § 63.564(e)(2) or (3) no more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the baseline temperature.
(5)
Flare.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish that the flare used to comply with the emissions standards in § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) is in compliance with the design requirements for flares cited in § 63.565(e). Following the date on which the initial determination of compliance is established, the facility shall operate with the presence of a pilot flame in the flare, as determined in § 63.564(f).
(6)
Carbon adsorber.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC concentration from the recovery device used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), (4), and (5), (c)(3), (4), and (5), and (d)(2) using the test methods in § 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(6)(i) as well as either paragraph (b)(6)(ii) or (iii) of this section. The owner or operator of affected sources complying with paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section shall conduct a performance test once each year.
(i)
Compliance determination for carbon bed regeneration.
Desorbed hydrocarbons from regeneration of the off-line carbon bed shall be vented to the on-line carbon bed.
(ii)
Baseline parameters for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(A)
Outlet VOC concentration limit for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described in § 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance test
is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average outlet VOC concentration as determined in § 63.564(g)(1) no more than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
(B)
Carbon adsorbers with vacuum regeneration.
The owner or operator shall establish as operating parameters the baseline regeneration time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration using the procedures described in § 63.565(h) and shall establish the baseline vacuum pressure (negative gauge pressure) using the procedures described in § 63.565(i). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with block average regeneration time of the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration as determined in § 63.564(g)(2) no more than 20 percent below the baseline regeneration time, and the facility shall be operated with the block average vacuum pressure (negative gauge pressure) as determined in § 63.564(g)(2) no more than 20 percent above the baseline vacuum pressure.
(C)
Carbon adsorbers with steam regeneration.
The owner or operator shall establish as operating parameters the baseline total stream flow using the procedures described in § 63.565(j) and a baseline carbon bed temperature after cooling of the bed using the procedures in § 63.565(f)(2). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with the total stream flow, as determined in § 63.564(g)(3), no more than 20 percent below the baseline stream flow and with the carbon bed temperature (measured within 15 minutes after completion of the cooling cycle), as determined in § 63.564(g)(3), no more than 10 percent or 5.6 °C (10 °F) above the baseline carbon bed temperature, whichever is less stringent.
(iii)
Outlet VOC concentration of 1,000 ppmv for gasoline loading.
Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with a block average outlet VOC concentration as determined in § 63.564(g)(1) of no more than 1,200 ppmv VOC.
(7)
Condenser/refrigeration unit.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC concentration from the recovery device used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the test methods in § 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(7)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i)
VOC outlet concentration limit for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described in § 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average outlet VOC concentration as determined in § 63.564(h)(2) no more than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
(ii)
Baseline temperature for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline temperature using the procedures described in § 63.565(f). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with a block average temperature, as determined in § 63.564(h)(1), no more than 28 °C (50 °F) above the baseline temperature.
(iii)
Baseline parameters for 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration limit for gasoline loading.
The owner or operator shall monitor either the outlet VOC concentration or the outlet temperature of the unit. For sources monitoring temperature, the owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline temperature using the procedures described in § 63.565(f). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with a block average outlet VOC concentration, as determined in § 63.564(h)(2), of no more than 1,200 ppmv VOC or with a block average temperature, as determined in § 63.564(h)(1), no more than 28 °C (50 °F) above the baseline temperature.
(8)
Absorber.
During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of the absorber and/or the outlet VOC concentration from the recovery device used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3),
and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the test methods in § 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(8)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i)
VOC outlet concentration limit for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described in § 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average outlet VOC concentration as determined in § 63.564(i)(1) no more than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
(ii)
Baseline liquid-to-vapor ratio for required percent recovery efficiency.
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the baseline liquid flow to vapor flow (L/V) ratio using the procedures described in § 63.565(k). Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with a block average L/V ratio, as determined in § 63.564(i)(2), no more than 20 percent below the baseline L/V ratio.
(9)
Alternative control devices.
For sources complying with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) with the use of a control technology other than the devices discussed in paragraphs (b)(4) through (8) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall provide to the Administrator information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system, including recommendations for the operating parameter(s) to be monitored to indicate proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control system. Based on this information, the Administrator shall determine the operating parameter(s) to be established during the performance test. During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of the air pollution control system using the test methods in § 63.565(d). The device shall achieve at least the percent destruction efficiency or recovery efficiency required under § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2). The owner or operator shall establish the operating parameter(s) approved by the Administrator. Following the date on which the initial performance test is complete, the facility shall operate either above or below a maximum or minimum operating parameter, as appropriate.
(10)
Emission estimation.
The owner or operator of a source subject to § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) shall use the emission estimation procedures in § 63.565(l) to calculate HAP emissions.
(c)
Leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems and control devices.
The following procedures are required for all sources subject to § 63.562(b), (c), or (d).
(1)
Annual leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems and control devices.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall inspect and monitor all ductwork and piping and connections to vapor collection systems and control devices once each calendar year using Method 21.
(2)
Ongoing leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems and control devices.
If evidence of a potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method, all ductwork and piping and connections to vapor collection systems and control devices shall be inspected to the extent necessary to positively identify the potential leak and any potential leaks shall be monitored within 5 days by Method 21. Each detection of a leak shall be recorded, and the leak shall be tagged until repaired.
(3) When a leak is detected, a first effort to repair the vapor collection system and control device shall be made within 15 days or prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation, whichever is later.
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 22597, Apr. 21, 2011]
§ 63.564
Monitoring requirements.
(a)(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and the monitoring requirements in this section.
(2) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the parameters specified in this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.
(3) Except for system breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drift adjustments, all continuous parametric monitoring systems (CPMS) and CEMS shall be in continuous operation while marine tank vessel loading operations are occuring and shall meet minimum frequency of operation requirements. Sources monitoring by use of CEMS and CPMS shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and/or data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.
(4) The owner or operator of a CMS installed in accordance with these emissions standards shall comply with the performance specifications either in performance specification (PS) 8 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B for CEMS or in § 63.7(c)(6) of subpart A of this part for CPMS.
(5) A CEMS is out of control when the measured values (i.e., daily calibrations, multipoint calibrations, and performance audits) exceed the limits specified in either PS 8 or in § 63.8(c)(7) of subpart A of this part. The owner or operator of a CEMS that is out of control shall submit all information concerning out of control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report required in § 63.567(e).
(b)
Vapor collection system of terminal.
Owners or operators of a source complying with § 63.563(a)(1) that uses a vapor collection system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall comply with paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(1) Measure and record the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass line once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator and data recorder. The flow indicator shall be installed immediately downstream of any valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could divert the vent stream from the control device to the atmosphere.
(2) Measure the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass line once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator with either an audio or visual alarm. The flow indicator and alarm shall be installed immediately downstream of any valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could divert the vent stream from the control device to the atmosphere. The alarm shall be checked every 6 months to demonstrate that it is functioning properly.
(3) Visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism once during each marine tank vessel loading operation and at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and that the vent stream is not diverted through the by-pass line; record all times when the car seals have been broken and the valve position has been changed. Each by-pass line valve shall be secured in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
(c)
Pressure/vacuum settings for the marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment.
Owners or operators of a source complying with § 63.563(a)(3) shall measure continuously the operating pressure of the marine tank vessel during loading.
(d)
Loading at negative pressure.
Owners or operators of a source complying with § 63.563(a)(4)(iv) that load vessels at less than atmospheric pressure (i.e., negative gauge pressure) shall measure and record the loading pressure. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a recording pressure measurement device (magnehelic gauge or equivalent device) and an audible and visible alarm
system that is activated when the pressure vacuum specified in § 63.563(a)(4)(iv) is not attained. The owner or operator shall place the alarm system so that it can be seen and heard where cargo transfer is controlled. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the pressure device once each calendar year with a reference pressure monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent pressure measurement device dedicated for this purpose).
(e)
Combustion device, except flare.
For sources complying with § 63.563(b)(4), use of a combustion device except a flare, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. Owners or operators complying with paragraphs (e)(2) or (3) shall also comply with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(1)
Outlet VOC concentration.
Monitor the VOC concentrations at the exhaust point of the combustion device and record the output from the system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC concentration. The daily calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
(2)
Operating temperature determined during performance testing.
If the baseline temperature was established during the performance test, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each cycle (same time period or cycle of the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average every third cycle.
(3)
Manufacturer's recommended operating temperature.
If the baseline temperature is based on the manufacturer recommended operating temperature, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each hour and a 3-hour block average every third hour.
(4)
Temperature monitor.
The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to within ±5.6 °C (±10 °F) or within 1 percent of the baseline temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the combustion device but not within the combustion zone. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
(f)
Flare.
For sources complying with § 63.563(b)(5), use of a flare, the owner or operator shall monitor and record continuously the presence of the flare pilot flame. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a heat sensing device (an ultraviolet beam sensor or thermocouple) at the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame during the entire loading cycle.
(g)
Carbon adsorber.
For sources complying with § 63.563(b)(6), use of a carbon adsorber, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(1)
Outlet VOC concentration.
Monitor the VOC concentrations at the exhaust point of each carbon adsorber unit and record the output from the system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration
each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC concentration. The daily calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
(2)
Carbon adsorbers with vacuum regeneration.
Monitor and record the regeneration time for carbon bed regeneration and monitor and record continuously the vacuum pressure of the carbon bed regeneration cycle. The owner or operator will record the time when the carbon bed regeneration cycle begins and when the cycle ends for a single carbon bed and will calculate a 3-cycle block average every third cycle. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a recording pressure measurement device (magnehelic gauge or equivalent device). A data acquisition system shall record and compute a 3-cycle (carbon bed regeneration cycle) block average vacuum pressure every third cycle. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the pressure device once each calendar year with a reference pressure monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent pressure measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the pressure monitor being tested.
(3)
Carbon adsorbers with steam regeneration.
Monitor and record the total stream mass flow and monitor and record the carbon bed temperature after regeneration (but within 15 minutes of completion of the cooling cycle). The owner or operator will install, calibrate, maintain, and operate an integrating stream flow monitoring device that is accurate within ±10 percent and that is capable of recording the total stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a temperature monitor accurate to within ±5.6 °C (10 °F) or within 1 percent of the baseline carbon bed temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the carbon bed temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the carbon bed. The data acquisition system shall record the carbon bed temperature after each cooling cycle (measured within 15 minutes of completion of the cooling cycle). The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
(h)
Condenser/refrigeration unit.
For sources complying with § 63.563(b)(7), use of a condenser/refrigeration unit, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Baseline temperature.
Monitor and record the temperature at the outlet of the unit. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to within ±5.6 °C (±10 °F) or within 1 percent of the baseline temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the condenser/refrigeration unit. For sources monitoring the temperature established during the performance test, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each cycle (same time period or cycle of the performance test) and a 3-hour block average every third cycle. For sources monitoring the manufacturer recommended temperature, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each hour and a 3-
hour block average every third hour. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
(2)
Outlet VOC concentration.
Monitor the VOC concentrations at the outlet of the unit and record the output from the system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a VOC CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC concentration. The daily calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
(i)
Absorber.
For sources complying with § 63.563(b)(8), use of an absorber, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Outlet VOC concentration.
Monitor the VOC concentrations at the outlet of the absorber and record the output from the system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a VOC CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8. The daily calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
(2)
L/V ratio.
Monitor and record the inlet liquid flowrate and the inlet gas flowrate to the absorber and record the calculated L/V ratio. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate liquid and gas flow indicators. For sources monitoring the L/V ratio established during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record the flowrates and calculated ratio every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average ratio each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average ratio every third cycle. For sources monitoring the manufacturer recommended L/V ratio, a data acquisition system shall record the flowrates and calculated ratio every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average ratio each hour and a 3-hour average ratio every third hour. The liquid and gas flow indicators shall be installed immediately upstream of the respective inlet lines to the absorber.
(j)
Alternate monitoring procedures.
Alternate procedures to those described in this section may be used upon application to, and approval by, the Administrator. The owner or operator shall comply with the procedures for use of an alternative monitoring method in § 63.8(f).
§ 63.565
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
Performance testing.
The owner or operator of an affected source in § 63.562 shall comply with the performance testing requirements in § 63.7 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and the performance testing requirements in this section.
(b)
Pressure/vacuum settings of marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment.
For the purpose of determining compliance with § 63.563(a)(3), the following procedures shall be used:
(1) Calibrate and install a pressure measurement device (liquid manometer, magnehelic gauge, or equivalent instrument) capable of measuring up to the maximum relief set pressure of the pressure-vacuum vents;
(2) Connect the pressure measurement device to a pressure tap in the terminal's vapor collection system, located as close as possible to the connection with the marine tank vessel; and
(3) During the performance test required in § 63.563(b)(1), record the pressure every 5 minutes while a marine tank vessel is being loaded and record the highest instantaneous pressure and vacuum that occurs during each loading cycle.
(c)
Vapor-tightness test procedures for the marine tank vessel.
When testing a vessel for vapor tightness to comply with the marine vessel vapor-tightness requirements of § 63.563(a)(4)(i), the owner or operator of a source shall use the methods in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) in this section.
(1)
Pressure test for the marine tank vessel.
(i) Each product tank shall be pressurized with dry air or inert gas to no more than the pressure of the lowest pressure relief valve setting.
(ii) Once the pressure is obtained, the dry air or inert gas source shall be shut off.
(iii) At the end of one-half hour, the pressure in the product tank and piping shall be measured. The change in pressure shall be calculated using the following formula:
P = P
i
−P
f
Where:
P = change in pressure, inches of water.
P
i
= pressure in tank when air/gas source is shut off, inches of water.
P
f
= pressure in tank at the end of one-half hour after air/gas source is shut off, inches of water.
(iv) The change in pressure, P, shall be compared to the pressure drop calculated using the following formula:
PM = 0.861 P
ia
L/V
Where:
PM = maximum allowable pressure change, inches of water.
P
ia
= pressure in tank when air/gas source is shut off, psia.
L = maximum permitted loading rate of vessel, barrels per hour.
V = total volume of product tank, barrels.
(v) If P≤PM, the vessel is vapor tight.
(vi) If P
PM, the vessel is not vapor tight and the source of the leak must be identified and repaired prior to retesting.
(2)
Leak test for the marine tank vessel.
Each owner or operator of a source complying with §§ 63.563(a)(4)(ii) or (iii) shall use Method 21 as the vapor-tightness leak test for marine tank vessels. The test shall be conducted during the final 20 percent of loading of each product tank of the marine vessel, and it shall be applied to any potential sources of vapor leaks on the vessel.
(d)
Combustion (except flare) and recovery control device performance test procedures.
(1) All testing equipment shall be prepared and installed as specified in the appropriate test methods.
(2) All testing shall be performed during the last 20 percent of loading of a tank or compartment.
(3) All emission testing intervals shall consist of each 5 minute period during the performance test. For each interval, the following shall be performed:
(i)
Readings.
The reading from each measurement instrument shall be recorded.
(ii)
Sampling Sites.
Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of sampling sites. Sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the combustion device or recovery device except for owners or operators complying with the 1,000 ppmv VOC emissions limit for gasoline vapors under § 63.563(b)(6) or (7), where the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the recovery device.
(iii)
Volume exhausted.
The volume exhausted shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter, as appropriate.
(4)
Combustion devices, except flares.
The average VOC concentration in the vent upstream and downstream of the control device shall be determined using Method 25 of appendix A of part
60 of this chapter for combustion devices, except flares. The average VOC concentration shall correspond to the volume measurement by taking into account the sampling system response time.
(5)
Recovery devices.
The average VOC concentration in the vent upstream and downstream of the control device shall be determined using Method 25A or 25B of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter for recovery devices. The average VOC concentration shall correspond to the volume measurement by taking into account the sampling system response time.
(6) The VOC mass at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or recovery device during each testing interval shall be calculated as follows:
M
j
= FKV
s
C
VOC
Where:
M
j
= mass of VOC at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or recovery device during testing interval j, kilograms (kg).
F = 10
−6
= conversion factor, (cubic meters VOC/cubic meters air)(1/ppmv) (m
3
VOC/m
3
air)(1/ppmv).
K = density, kilograms per cubic meter (kg/m
3
VOC), standard conditions, 20 °C and 760 mm Hg.
V
s
= volume of air-vapor mixture at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or recovery device, cubic meters (m
3
) at standard conditions, 20 °C and 760 mm Hg.
C
VOC
= VOC concentration (as measured) at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or recovery device, ppmv, dry basis.
s = standard conditions, 20 °C and 760 mm Hg.
(7) The VOC mass emission rates at the inlet and outlet of the recovery or combustion device shall be calculated as follows:
ER19SE95.001
Where:
E
i
, E
o
= mass flow rate of VOC at the inlet (i) and outlet (o) of the recovery or combustion device, kilogram per hour (kg/hr).
M
ij
, M
oj
= mass of VOC at the inlet (i) or outlet (o) during testing interval j, kg.
T = Total time of all testing intervals, hour.
n = number of testing intervals.
(8) Where Method 25, 25A, or 25B is used to measure the percent reduction in VOC, the percent reduction across the combustion or recovery device shall be calculated as follows:
ER27FE14.025
Where:
R = control efficiency of control device, percent.
E
i
= mass flow rate of VOC at the inlet to the combustion or recovery device as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, kg/hr.
E
o
= mass flow rate of VOC at the outlet of the combustion or recovery device, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, kg/hr.
(9) Repeat the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section 3 times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device.
(10) Use of methods other than Method 25, 25A, or 25B shall be validated pursuant to Method 301 of appendix A to part 63 of this chapter.
(e)
Performance test for flares.
When a flare is used to comply with § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2), the source must demonstrate that the flare meets the requirements of § 63.11 of subpart A of this part. In addition, a performance test according to Method 22 of appendix A of part 63 shall be performed to determine visible emissions. The observation period shall be at least 2 hours and shall be conducted according to Method
22. Performance testing shall be conducted during three complete loading cycles with a separate test run for each loading cycle. The observation period for detecting visible emissions shall encompass each loading cycle. Integrated sampling to measure process vent stream flow rate shall be performed continuously during each loading cycle. The owner or operator shall record all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, maximum permitted velocity calculations, and exit velocity determinations made during the performance test.
(f)
Baseline temperature.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the baseline temperature required in § 63.563(b)(4), (6), and (7) for combustion devices, carbon adsorber beds, and condenser/refrigeration units, respectively, and to monitor the temperature as required in § 63.564(e), (g), and (h). The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Baseline temperature from performance testing.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline temperature as the temperature at the outlet point of the unit averaged over three test runs from paragraph (d) of this section. Temperature shall be measured every 15 minutes.
(2)
Baseline temperature from manufacturer.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline temperature as the manufacturer recommended minimum operating temperature for combustion devices, maximum operating temperature for condenser units, and maximum operating temperature for carbon beds of carbon adsorbers.
(g)
Baseline outlet VOC concentration.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the outlet VOC concentration required in § 63.563(b)(4), (6), (7), and (8) for combustion devices except flare, carbon adsorbers, condenser/refrigeration units, and absorbers, respectively, and to monitor the VOC concentration as required in § 63.564(e), (g), (h), and (i). The owner or operator shall use the procedures outlined in Method 25A or 25B. For the baseline VOC concentration, the arithmetic average of the outlet VOC concentration from three test runs from paragraph (d) of this section shall be calculated for the control device. The VOC concentration shall be measured at least every 15 minutes. Compliance testing of VOC CEMS shall be performed using PS 8.
(h)
Baseline regeneration time for carbon bed regeneration.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline regeneration time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration required in § 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to monitor the regeneration time for the vacuum regeneration as required in § 63.564(g). The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (h)(1) or (2).
(1)
Baseline regeneration time from performance testing.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline regeneration time as the length of time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration averaged over three test runs from paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Baseline regeneration time from manufacturer recommendation.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline regeneration time as the manufacturer recommended minimum regeneration time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration.
(i)
Baseline vacuum pressure for carbon bed regeneration.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline vacuum pressure for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration required in § 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to monitor the vacuum pressure as required in § 63.564(g). The owner or operator shall establish the baseline vacuum pressure as the manufacturer recommended minimum vacuum for carbon bed regeneration.
(j)
Baseline total stream flow.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline total stream flow for steam regeneration required in § 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to monitor the total stream flow as required in § 63.564(g). The owner or operator shall establish the baseline stream flow as the manufacturer recommended minimum total stream flow for carbon bed regeneration.
(k)
Baseline L/V ratio.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the baseline L/V ratio required in § 63.563(b)(8) for an absorber and to
monitor the L/V ratio as required in § 63.564(i). The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (k)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Baseline L/V ratio from performance test.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline L/V ratio as the calculated value of the inlet liquid flow divided by the inlet gas flow to the absorber averaged over three test runs using the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Baseline L/V ratio from manufacturer.
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline L/V ratio as the manufacturer recommended minimum L/V ratio for absorber operation.
(l)
Emission estimation procedures.
For sources with emissions less than 10 or 25 tons and sources with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, the owner or operator shall calculate an annual estimate of HAP emissions, excluding commodities exempted by § 63.560(d), from marine tank vessel loading operations. Emission estimates and emission factors shall be based on test data, or if test data is not available, shall be based on measurement or estimating techniques generally accepted in industry practice for operating conditions at the source.
(m)
Alternate test procedures.
(1) Alternate test procedures to those described in this section may be used upon application to, and approval by, the Administrator.
(2) If the owner or operator intends to demonstrate compliance by using an alternative to any test method specified, the owner or operator shall refrain from conducting the performance test until the Administrator approves the use of the alternative method when the Administrator approves the site-specific test plan (if review of the site-specific test plan is requested) or until after the alternative method is approved (see § 63.7(f) of subpart A of this part). If the Administrator does not approve the site-specific test plan (if review is requested) or the use of the alternative method within 30 days before the test is scheduled to begin, the performance test dates specified in § 63.563(b)(1) shall be extended such that the owner or operator shall conduct the performance test within 60 calendar days after the Administrator approves the site-specific test plan or after use of the alternative method is approved. Notwithstanding the requirements in the preceding two sentences, the owner or operator may proceed to conduct the performance test as required in this section (without the Administrator's prior approval of the site-specific test plan) if he/she subsequently chooses to use the specified testing and monitoring methods instead of an alternative.
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 11283, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 63.566
Construction and reconstruction.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all requirements for construction or reconstruction of a source in § 63.5 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and construction or reconstruction requirements in this section.
(b)(1)
Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.
The provisions of this paragraph and § 63.5(d)(1)(ii) and (iii), (2), (3), and (4) of subpart A implement section 112(i)(1) of the Act.
(2)
General application requirements.
An owner or operator who is subject to the requirements of § 63.5(b)(3) of subpart A shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction of a new source, the reconstruction of a source, or the reconstruction of a source not subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562 such that the source becomes an affected source. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of § 63.567(b)(3). The owner or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of the date construction or reconstruction is planned to commence in order to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned commencement date will not be delayed.
(c)
Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State
preconstruction review.
The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator the request for approval of construction or reconstruction under this paragraph and § 63.5(f)(1) of subpart A of this part no later than the application deadline specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The owner or operator shall include in the request information sufficient for the Administrator's determination. The Administrator will evaluate the owner or operator's request in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.5(e) of subpart A of this part. The Administrator may request additional relevant information after the submittal of a request for approval of construction or reconstruction.
§ 63.567
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.9 and 63.10 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and fulfill all reporting and recordkeeping requirements in this section. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address identified in § 63.13 of subpart A of this part.
(1) Reports required by subpart A and this section may be sent by U.S. mail, facsimile (fax), or by another courier.
(i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before the specified date.
(ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the Administrator on or before the specified date.
(2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.
(b)
Notification requirements.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all notification requirements in § 63.9 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of that section to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and the notification requirements in this paragraph.
(1)
Applicability.
If a source that otherwise would not be subject to the emissions standards subsequently increases its HAP emissions calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 or increases its annual HAP emissions after September 20, 1999 or subsequently increases its gasoline or crude loading throughput calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996 or increases its gasoline or crude loading annual throughput after September 21, 1998 such that the source becomes subject to the emissions standards, such source shall be subject to the notification requirements of § 63.9 of subpart A of this part and the notification requirements of this paragraph.
(2)
Initial notification for sources with startup before the effective date.
The owner or operator of a source with initial startup before the effective date shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the relevant standard. The notification shall be submitted not later than 365 days after the effective date of the emissions standards or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, and shall provide the following information:
(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the source;
(iii) An identification of this emissions standard that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date;
(iv) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of operation of the source;
(v) A statement that the source is a major source.
(3)
Initial notification for sources with startup after the effective date.
The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is subject to the emissions standards that has an initial startup after the effective date but before the compliance date, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part and § 63.566 of this subpart, or a sources which reclassifies to major source status after the effective date, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is
subject to the standard no later than 365 days, 120 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever occurs before notification of the initial performance test in § 63.9(e) of subpart A of this part. The notification shall provide all the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, delivered or postmarked with the notification required in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4)
Initial notification requirements for constructed/reconstructed sources.
After the effective date of these standards, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which a source subject to these standards is (or would be) located, an owner or operator subject to the notification requirements of § 63.5 of subpart A of this part and § 63.566 of this subpart who intends to construct a new source subject to these standards, reconstruct a source subject to these standards, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes subject to these standards, shall comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.
(i)
Notify the Administrator in writing of the intended construction or reconstruction.
The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. The notification shall include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in § 63.5 of subpart A of this part. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph.
(ii) Submit a notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, delivered or postmarked not later than 30 days after such date, if construction was commenced after the effective date.
(iii) Submit a notification of the anticipated date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked not more than 60 days nor less than 30 days before such date;
(iv) Submit a notification of the actual date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that date.
(5)
Additional initial notification requirements.
(i) The owner or operator of sources subject to § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), MACT standards, shall also include in the initial notification report required by paragraph (b)(2) and (3) the 24-month annual average or the annual actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations, as appropriate, at all loading berths, as calculated according to the procedures in § 63.565(l). Emissions will be reported by commodity and type of marine tank vessel (barge or tanker) loaded.
(ii) As an alternative to reporting the information in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, the source may submit documentation showing that all HAP-containing marine tank vessel loading operations, not exempt by § 63.560(d), occurred using vapor tight vessels that comply with the procedures of § 63.563(a) and that the emissions were routed to control devices meeting the requirements specified in § 63.563(b).
(c)
Request for extension of compliance.
If the owner or operator has installed BACT or technology to meet LAER consistent with § 63.6(i)(5) of subpart A of this part, he/she may submit to the Administrator (or State with an approved permit program) a request for an extension of compliance as specified in § 63.6(i)(4)(i)(B), (i)(5), and (i)(6) of subpart A of this part.
(d)
Reporting for performance testing of flares.
The owner or operator of a source required to conduct an opacity performance test shall report the opacity results and other information required by § 63.565(e) and § 63.11 of subpart A of this part with the notification of compliance status.
(e)
Summary reports and excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports
—(1)
Schedule for summary report and excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.
Excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances are defined in § 63.563(b). The owner or operator of a source subject to these emissions standards that is required to install a CMS shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and/or a summary report to the Administrator once each year, except, when the source experiences excess emissions, the source shall comply
with a semi-annual reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (e)(2) of this section is approved.
(2)
Request to reduce frequency of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports.
An owner or operator who is required to submit excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports on a semi-annual basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to annual if the following conditions are met:
(i) For 1 full year the sources's excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports continually demonstrate that the source is in compliance; and
(ii) The owner or operator continues to comply with all recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified in this subpart and subpart A of this part.
(3) The frequency of reporting of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports required may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced frequency of reporting, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping prior to the intended change, including performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with operation maintenance requirements. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgement about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.
(4)
Content and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.
All excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports and all summary reports, if required per paragraph (e)(5) and (6) of this section, shall be delivered or postmarked within 30 days following the end of each calendar year, or within 30 days following the end of each six month period, if appropriate. Written reports of excess emissions or exceedances of process or control system parameters shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13) of subpart A of this part as applicable in Table 1 of § 63.560 and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with PS 8 or other methods used for accuracy testing of temperature, pressure, or flow monitoring devices. The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. When no excess emissions or exceedances have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. This information will be kept for a minimum of 5 years and made readily available to the Administrator or delegated State authority upon request.
(5) If the total duration of excess emissions or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is less than 5 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, and CMS downtime for the reporting period is less than 10 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, only the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted, and the full excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section need not be submitted unless required by the Administrator.
(6) If the total duration of excess emissions or process or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total CMS downtime for the reporting period is 10 percent or greater of the total operating time for
the reporting period, both the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part and the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be submitted.
(f)
Vapor collection system of the terminal.
Each owner or operator of an affected source shall submit with the initial performance test and maintain in an accessible location on site an engineering report describing in detail the vent system, or vapor collection system, used to vent each vent stream to a control device. This report shall include all valves and vent pipes that could vent the stream to the atmosphere, thereby bypassing the control device, and identify which valves are car-sealed opened and which valves are car-sealed closed.
(g) If a vent system, or vapor collection system, containing valves that could divert the emission stream away from the control device is used, each owner or operator of an affected source shall keep for at least 5 years up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of:
(1) All periods when flow bypassing the control device is indicated if flow indicators are installed under § 63.563(a)(1) and § 63.564(b), and
(2) All times when maintenance is performed on car-sealed valves, when the car-seal is broken, and when the valve position is changed (i.e., from open to closed for valves in the vent piping to the control device and from closed to open for valves that vent the stream directly or indirectly to the atmosphere bypassing the control device) if valves are monitored under § 63.564(b).
(h) The owner or operator of an affected source shall keep the vapor-tightness documentation required under § 63.563(a)(4) on file at the source in a permanent form available for inspection.
(i)
Vapor tightness test documentation for marine tank vessels.
The owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain a documentation file for each marine tank vessel loaded at that source to reflect current test results as determined by the appropriate method in § 63.565(c)(1) and (2). Updates to this documentation file shall be made at least once per year. The owner or operator shall include, as a minimum, the following information in this documentation:
(1) Test title;
(2) Marine vessel owner and address;
(3) Marine vessel identification number;
(4) Loading time, according to § 63.563(a)(4)(ii) or (iii), if appropriate;
(5) Testing location;
(6) Date of test;
(7) Tester name and signature;
(8) Test results from § 63.565(c)(1) or (2), as appropriate;
(9) Documentation provided under § 63.563(a)(4)(ii) and (iii)(B) showing that the repair of leaking components attributed to a failure of a vapor-tightness test is technically infeasible without dry-docking the vessel; and
(10) Documentation that a marine tank vessel failing a pressure test or leak test has been repaired.
(j)
Emission estimation reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
The owner or operator of each source complying with the emission limits specified in § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) shall comply with the following provisions:
(1) Maintain records of all measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to identify commodities exempted under § 63.560(d);
(2) Keep readily accessible records of the emission estimation calculations performed in § 63.565(l) for 5 years; and
(3) Submit an annual report of the source's HAP control efficiency calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.565(l), based on the source's actual throughput.
(4) Owners or operators of marine tank vessel loading operations specified in § 63.560(a)(3) shall retain records of the emissions estimates determined in § 65.565(l) and records of their actual throughputs by commodity, for 5 years.
(k)
Leak detection and repair of vapor collection systems and control devices.
When each leak of the vapor collection system, or vapor collection system, and control device is detected and repaired as specified in § 63.563(c) the following information required shall be maintained for 5 years:
(1) Date of inspection;
(2) Findings (location, nature, and severity of each leak);
(3) Leak determination method;
(4) Corrective action (date each leak repaired, reasons for repair interval); and
(5) Inspector name and signature.
(l) The owner or operator of the VMT source required by § 63.562(d)(2)(iv) to develop a program, shall submit annual reports on or before January 31 of each year to the Administrator certifying the annual average daily loading rate for the previous calendar year. Beginning on January 31, 1996, for the reported year 1995, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths. Beginning on January 31, 1999, for the reported year 1998, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths, over each loading berth equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, and over each loading berth not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device. The annual average daily loading rate under this section is calculated as the total amount of crude oil loaded during the calendar year divided by 365 days or 366 days, as appropriate.
(m) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded shall be stated in a semiannual report. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.562(e), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report, to be certified by the owner or operator or other responsible official, shall be submitted semiannually and delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half.
(n)(1) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2, and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the ERT (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert tool.html/
) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(2) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (n)(1) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (n)(1) of this section in paper format.
[60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 37350, June 23, 2003; 76 FR 22597, Apr. 21, 2011; 85 FR 73892, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.568
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.560 and 63.562(a) through (d).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods for under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37350, June 23, 2003]
Subpart Z [Reserved]
§§ 63.569-63.599
[Reserved]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
40 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
40 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
63 State authority delegations
5574
63 Policy statement
31285
63 Actions on petitions
67665
63.1 (c)(6) added
73884
63.2 Amended
63418, 73885
63.6 (b)(7), (c)(1), and (5) revised
73885
63.9 (b)(1)(ii) and (j) revised; (k) added
73885
63.10 (b)(3) revised
73886
63.12 (c) revised
73887
63.13 (a) introductory text revised
73887
63.14 (h)(13), (21), (26), (29), (30), (78), and (79) revised
10846
63.14 (e)(1) and (h)(85) revised; (h)(94) through (111) redesignated as (h)(95) through (112); new (h)(94) added
13539
63.14 (h)(102) revised
14548
63.14 (h)(94) revised
17261
63.14 (h)(72), (83), (85), (89), and (91) revised
39994
63.14 (h)(92) through (112) redesignated as (h)(93) through (113); new (h)(92) added; (e)(1), (h)(18), (83), (85), (n)(12), (13), and (t)(1) revised
40417
63.14 (a) and (q)(2)(i) revised
40606
63.14 (h)(31) and (32) amended; (h)(102) through (113) redesignated as (h)(104) through (115); (a), (e)(1), (h)(83), (85), new (91), and (93) revised; new (h)(103) added
40760
63.14 (h)(12) removed; (h)(13) through (115) and (n)(1) through (24) redesignated as (h)(12) through (114) and (n)(2) through (25); new (h)(12), (20), (25), (28), (29), (65), (75), (77), (78), and (80) revised; new (n)(1) added
41124
63.14 (h)(49) through (114) redesignated as (h)(51) through (116); (h)(18) through (48) redesignated as (h)(19) through new (49); new (h)(18) and (50) added; new (h)(21), (26), (30), and (80) revised
41295
63.14 Correction: amended
41411
63.14 (c)(1) and (h)(31) revised
41702
63.14 (e)(1), (h)(106), and (n)(3) revised
42114
63.14 Correction: (h)(90) through (102) redesignated as (h)(91) through (103); new (h)(92) and new (94) revised
44217
63.14 (e)(1), (h)(85), (86), (93), (100), and (n)(3) revised
44976
63.14 (e)(1) and (n)(3) revised
45491
63.14 (h)(73), (94), (102), and (t)(1) revised; (n)(14) through (25) redesignated as (n)(17) through (28); (n)(10) through (13) redesignated as (n)(12) through (15); new (n)(10), (11) and (16) added
49132
63.14 (n)(8) through (28) redesignated as (n)(9) through (29); new (n)(8) added
49454
63.14 (e)(1), (h)(26), (30), (50), (86), and (94) revised; (k)(1) through (5) redesignated as (k)(2) through (6); new (k)(1) added
49740
63.99 (a)(3)(i) table and (29)(i) table amended
8759
63.99 (a)(32)(i) revised
57744
63.100—63.107 (Subpart F) Table 3 amended
73887
63.151 (b)(2)(i) through (iii) revised
73887
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Table 1A amended
73887
63.182 (b)(2)(i) through (iii) revised
73888
63.160—63.183 (Subpart H) Table 4 amended
73888
63.215 (b) introductory text revised; (b)(4) added
73888
63.311 (a) revised
73888
63.324 (g) added
73888
63.347 (c)(1) introductory text revised
73888
63.340—63.348 (Subpart N) Table 1 amended
73889
63.360 Table 1 amended
73889
63.405 (a)(1) introductory text, (2), and (b)(1) revised
73889
63.400—63.407 (Subpart Q) Table 1 amended
73889
63.421 Amended
78463
63.420—63.429 (Subpart R) Table 1 amended
73890
63.455 (a) revised
73890
63.440—63.459 (Subpart S) Table 1 amended
73890
63.468 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (c) introductory text, and (d) introductory text revised
73890
63.460—63.471 (Subpart T) Appendix B amended
73891
63.480—63.507 (Subpart U) Table 1 amended
73891
63.520—63.529 (Subpart W) Table 1 amended
73891
63.541—63.552 (Subpart X) Table 1 amended
73892
63.560 Table 1 amended
73892
63.567 (b)(2) introductory text and (3) revised
73892
2021
40 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
63.6 (f)(1) and (h)(1) revised
13821
63.14 (n)(1) revised
66039
63.14 (h)(104) through (118) redesignated as (h)(105) through (119); new (h)(104) added; (e)(1), (h)(86), and (n)(4) revised
66062
63.14 (h)(105) through (117) redesignated as (h)(107) through (119); (h)(63) through (104) redesignated as (h)(64) through new (105); new (h)(63) and new (106) added
66121
2022
40 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
63 Notification
77985
63.14 (h)(63) through (116) redesignated as (h)(64) through (103), (105), (106) and (108) through (119); new (h)(63), new (104), and new (107) added
31186
63.14 (h)(103) revised
60840
63.14 (d)(1) revised; (d)(2) added
67804
63.64 Added
396
63.99 (a)(37)(i) revised
43417
63.99 (a)(4) revised
52696
2023
40 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
63 Notification
13956
63.14 (h)(109) and (n)(4) revised; (h)(110) and (n)(3) removed
11589
63.14 (d) through (t) redesignated as (e) through (u); new (d) added; new (i)(103) and new (104) revised
18412
(n)(10) revised; (n)(11) removed
60345
63.99 (a)(40)(ii) revised
60346
63.457 (c)(4) revised
18412
2024
40 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
63 Policy statement
53496
63.1 (c)(6)(iii) added
73307
63.9 (j) and (k) introductory text revised; (k)(3) added
73307
63.13 (a) revised
86748
63.14 (i)(104) revised
16424
(i)(88), (110) and (o) introductory text revised; (o)(3) added
23319
(a), (f), and (i) introductory text revised; (i)(88) through (119) redesignated as (i)(89) through (120); (i) Note 2 and new (i)(88) added
24171
(f)(1) amended; eff. 7-8-24
38564
(f)(1), (i)(95), (105), and (110) revised; (o)(30) added
41691
(f)(1) and (i)(110) revised; (o)(1) through (30) redesignated as (o)(2) through (31); new (o)(1) added; eff. 7-15-24
41691
(i)(33) through (91) redesignated as (i)(34) through (92); (a), (c), (f), (i) introductory text, new (i)(89), new (96), (o), and (u) revised; new (i)(33) added; (i) Note 1 removed; eff. 7-15-24
43151
(n)(6)(i) revised
45771
(f)(1), (i)(88), (96), (105), (110), (o) introductory text, and (3) revised
55731
(f)(1), (i)(89), and (96) revised; eff. 7-15-24
55731
(i)(89), (105), and (o)(1) revised
57752
(f)(1), (i)(105), and (o)(4) revised
94907
63.99 (a)(30)(iii) revised
45772
63.100—63.109 (Subpart F) Heading revised; eff. 7-15-24
43153
63.100 (a), (e)(1), (3), (f)(8), (11), (j)(3), (k) introductory text, (4) introductory text, (5)(ii), (6)(i), (l)(1)(iii), (4)(ii)(B), (m) introductory text, (q) introductory text, (3), (4)(i) introductory text, and (q)(5) revised; (k)(10) through (12) and (q)(4)(iii) added; eff. 7-15-24
43153
63.101 (b) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43155
63.102 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43163
63.103 (b) introductory text, (1), (3), (c)(2), (3) and (d) through (h) revised; (b)(3)(ii) added; eff. 7-15-24
43164
63.104 (a) and (f) revised; (g) through (l) added; eff. 7-15-24
43166
63.105 (d) and (e) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43166
63.107 (i) revised; (j) added; eff. 7-15-24
43169
63.108 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43169
63.109 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43173
63.100—63.109 (Subpart F) Table 3 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43174
63.100—63.109 (Subpart F) Table 4 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43175
63.110 (b)(3), (c)(2)(i), (d)(2) introductory text, (3), (5) introductory text, (6), (8) introductory text, (9), (e)(1) introductory text, (f)(2) introductory text, (3), (4) introductory text, (h), (i) introductory text, and (1)(iv) revised; (j) added; eff. 7-15-24
43175
63.111 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43177
63.113 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43177
63.114 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43179
63.115 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (c) introductory text, (d) introductory text, (e) introductory text and (f) introductory text revised; (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43181
63.116 (a) introductory text, (b)(3) through (5), (c) introductory text, (3) introductory text, (iii)(A), (c)(4) introductory text, (ii)(B), and (d) introductory text revised; (f) through (h) added; eff. 7-15-24
43183
63.117 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43184
63.118 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43185
63.119 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (5) introductory text, (ii), (e), (f)(3), and (g) revised; (a)(5) through (7), (b)(5)(ix) through (xii), (7) added; eff. 7-15-24
43188
63.120 (b)(9), (d), (e) introductory text, and (3) revised; (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43190
63.122 (a)(4), (c)(2), and (g) revised; (i) added; eff. 7-15-24
43192
63.123 (b), (j), and (k) added; (h) and (i)(3)(i) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43193
63.124 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43193
63.126 (b)(1), (2)(i), (d)(1)(i), (ii), (3)(i), (h), and (i) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43196
63.127 (a)(2), (4)(ii)(C), (b)(3), and (d) revised; (b)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
43197
63.128 (a)(9), (10), (b) introductory text, (c)(2), (7), (f)(2), and (h)(1)(iv) revised; (a)(12) added; eff. 7-15-24
43198
63.129 (a)(2), (5) introductory text, and (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43199
63.130 (a)(1), (2), (b), (c), and (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43200
63.132 (a)(2)(i), (b)(3)(i), (c)(1), (d), and (f)(2) revised; (f)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43201
63.133 (a)(2)(i), (b) introductory text, (3), and (4) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.134 (b) introductory text, (4) and (5) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.135 (b)(3), (d) introductory text, (3), and (4) revised; (b)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.136 (b)(3) and (4) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.137 (a)(1), (b) introductory text, (3), and (4) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.138 (b) introductory text, (c) introductory text, (h)(1), and (2) revised; (b)(3) and (c)(3) added; eff. 7-15-24
43202
63.139 (c) and (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43203
63.143 (c) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43205
63.144 (b)(5)(i)(I) added; eff. 7-15-24
43205
63.145 (a)(3), (d)(4), (i) introductory text, (2), (6)(i), and (j) introductory text revised; (a)(10) added; eff. 7-15-24
43205
63.146 (b)(7)(i) introductory text, (ii)(C), (9)(ii), (d), and (e) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43205
63.147 (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43206
63.148 (a), (b) introductory text, (f) introductory text, (3), (i)(3) introductory text, (j), and (k) revised; (f)(4) and (i)(3)(iii) added; eff. 7-15-24
43206
63.150 (f)(2), (g)(2)(ii), (iii)(B)(
2
), (m)(1)(ii), and (2)(i) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43207
63.151 (d)(6)(i) and (v) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43208
63.152 (b)(1)(i), (c), (d)(1), (f) introductory text, (7) introductory text, (g)(1), and (2) revised; (b)(7) through (10), (f)(7)(vi), and (h) added; eff. 7-15-24
43208
63.153 (c) introductory text revised; (c)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43212
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Heading revised; eff. 7-15-24
43175
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Table 3 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43212
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Table 4 heading revised; eff. 7-15-24
43215
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Tables 5-7 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43216
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Table 8 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43218
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Tables 13 and 20 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43219
63.110—63.153 (Subpart G) Table 38 added; eff. 7-15-24
43220
63.160—63.184 (Subpart H) Heading revised; eff. 7-15-24
43220
63.160 (b)(1), (c), (g) introductory text, and (1) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43220
63.161 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43221
63.163 (a)(1)(iii), (b)(2)(iv), (c)(4), and (e)(7) added; (b)(2) introductory text, (c)(3), (e) introductory text, (g), (j) introductory text, and (1) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43221
63.164 (h) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43221
63.165 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43221
63.168 (b)(2) introductory text and (d) introductory text revised; (b)(2)(iv) and (d)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43223
63.170 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43224
63.171 (a), (c) introductory text, (d) introductory text and (e) revised; (f) added; eff. 7-15-24
43224
63.172 (b), (d), (j) introductory text, and (3) revised; (j)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
43224
63.173 (f) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43224
63.174 (a)(2), (b) introductory text, (3) introductory text, (g) introductory text, and (3) revised; (a)(3), (b)(3)(vi), and (5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43224
63.180 (c) introductory text, (d)(1) and (e) introductory text revised; eff. 7-15-24
43225
63.181 (b)(2)(i), (3), (d)(5)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (2)(i), and (3) introductory text revised; (b)(11), (12), (g)(3)(iii), and (l) added; eff. 7-15-24
43225
63.182 (a)(3), (c) introductory text, (d) introductory text, and (2) introductory text revised; (a)(4), (c)(5), (6), (d)(2)(xviii), (xix), and (e) added; eff. 7-15-24
43226
63.183 (c) introductory text revised; (c)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43228
63.184 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43228
63.160—63.184 (Subpart H) Tables 1 through 4 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43234
63.190—63.193 (Subpart I) Heading revised; eff. 7-15-24
43235
63.192 (b)(6), (7), (10), (c)(3), (f)(2), and (g) introductory text revised; (b)(12) and (c)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43235
63.300 (b) and (e) revised
55731
63.301 Amended
55732
63.302 (a)(4) added; (d) revised
55733
63.303 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c) introductory text revised
55733
63.304 (b)(6) revised; undesignated text following (b)(6)(v) designated as (b)(7); (b)(8) added
55733
63.305 (c)(3)(iii) added; (c)(5)(ii)(A) and (f)(4) revised
55734
63.309 (a) introductory text, (d)(1), (2), (5), (g), (j)(1), (k) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (iii), and (m) revised
55735
63.310 Removed
55735
63.311 (b)(2), (5), and (6) removed; (b)(3), (4), (6), and (7) redesignated as (b)(2) through (5); (d), (e), (f) introductory text, (1)(iv), (2)(ii)(A), and (g)(1) revised; (f)(6) removed; (g) heading and (h) through (l) added
55735
63.313 (d)(6) added
55738
63.314 Added
55738
63.360—63.368 (Subpart O) Revised
24172
63.420—63.429 (Subpart R) Table 1 revised; eff. 7-8-24
39370
63.420 (a) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (2), (b) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (2), (c) introductory text, (2), (d) introductory text, (2), (g), (i), and (j) revised; (k) added; eff. 7-8-24
39358
63.421 Introductory text revised; section amended; eff. 7-8-24
39358
63.422 Revised; eff. 7-8-24
39359
63.423 Revised; eff. 7-8-24
39360
63.424 Revised; eff. 7-8-24
39360
63.425 (a) through (d), (e)(1), (f) introductory text, (1) and (h) revised; (g)(3) amended; (j) added; eff. 7-8-24
39361
63.427 (a) introductory text, (3), (b) and (c) revised; (d) through (f) added; eff. 7-8-24
39363
63.428 Revised; eff. 7-8-24
39364
63.429 (c) introductory text revised; (c)(5) added; eff. 7-8-24
39370
63.480—63.507 (Subpart U) Table 1 amended
43264
Table 6 revised
43264
Table 7 revised
43267
Table 9 amended
43268
Table 10 added
43268
63.480 (j) introductory text and (4) introductory text revised; eff. 7-15-24
43235
63.481 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (d) introductory text, and (k) revised; (k)(2) and (n) through (p) added; eff. 7-15-24
43236
63.482 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43237
63.483 (a) introductory text revised; (e) added; eff. 7-15-24
43242
63.484 (a) and (i)(2) revised; (t) and (u) added; eff. 7-15-24
43242
63.485 (a), (l), (o), (p)(3), (q)(1) introductory text, (ii), (2), (s) introductory text, (5), and (t) revised; (p)(5), (q)(3), (x), (y), and (z) added; eff. 7-15-24
43243
63.487 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (1), (e)(1)(iii), (f) introductory text, and (g) introductory text revised; (e)(1)(iv), (i), and (j) added; eff. 7-15-24
43245
63.488 (b)(5)(iii), (d), (e) introductory text, (f), and (g) revised; (e)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
43247
63.489 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (2), (7), (d) introductory text, and (e)(1)(i) revised; (b)(9), (10), (11), (d)(3), and (e)(1)(iii) added; eff. 7-15-24
43247
63.490 (a), (c)(1)(i)(D), and (e)(1) revised; (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43248
63.491 (b)(3) introductory text, (d)(1), (e)(3), (4) introductory text, and (f)(3) revised; (b)(3)(iv), (6), (e)(6), and (h) added; eff. 7-15-24
43249
63.492 (f) revised; (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43250
63.494 (a)(4) introductory text and (d) revised; (a)(7) and (e) added; eff. 7-15-24
43251
63.496 (b)(5)(iii) and (7)(i) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43251
63.497 (a) introductory text, (2), (6), and (d) introductory text revised; (a)(7), (8), and (d)(3) added; eff. 7-15-24
43252
63.498 (a) introductory text and (d) revised; (f) added; eff. 7-15-24
43252
63.499 (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43253
63.500 (c)(1)(iii) introductory text revised; eff. 7-15-24
43253
63.501 (a) introductory text, (10), (20), and (b) revised; (d), (e), and (f) added; eff. 7-15-24
43254
63.502 Heading, (a), (j), (k), and (n) revised; eff. 7-15-24
43254
63.503 (a)(3), (g)(2)(ii) introductory text, (iii)(B)(
2
), (7)(ii) introductory text, (m)(1)(ii), and (2)(i) revised; (g)(2)(iii)(
4
) added; eff. 7-15-24
43255
63.504 (a) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (c) introductory text revised; (a)(1)(iii) and (c)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
43256
63.505 (b) and (g)(2)(ii)(B) introductory text revised; (g)(2)(ii)(B)(
5
) added; eff. 7-15-24
43257
63.506 (b)(1), (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
1
), (5) introductory text, (5)(i), (6), (7) introductory text, and (i)(l) revised; (e)(4)(ii)(F)(
6
), (5)(xiii), (7)(vi), and (i)(3) added; eff. 7-15-24
43257
63.507 (c) introductory text revised; (c)(5) and (6) added; eff. 7-15-24
43261
63.508 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43261
63.509 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43261
63.510 Added; eff. 7-15-24
43262
63.480—63.510 (Subpart U) Table 1 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43264
63.480—63.510 (Subpart U) Table 6 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43264
63.480—63.510 (Subpart U) Table 7 revised; eff. 7-15-24
43267
63.480—63.510 (Subpart U) Table 9 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43268
63.480—63.510 (Subpart U) Table 10 added; eff. 7-15-24
43268
63.521 (c) added; eff. 7-15-24
43268
63.522 Amended; eff. 7-15-24
43268
63.523 (a) revised; (d) and (e) added; eff. 7-15-24
43269
63.524 (a) introductory text and (b) introductory text revised; (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c) added; eff. 7-15-24
43269
63.525 (a), (b)(1), (e) introductory text, (2)(iii), (f), (g), (h) introductory text, and (i) revised; (d)(3), (e)(3), and (j) through (m) added; eff. 7-15-24
43270
63.526 (a) introductory text, (2), (3), (4), (b) introductory text, (1)(i), (2), (3), (4), (c), and (d) revised; (a)(7) and (b)(7) added; eff. 7-15-24
43272
63.527 (b), (c) introductory text, and (d) revised; (f) and (g) added; eff. 7-15-24
43273
63.528 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
43273
63.529 (c) introductory text revised; (c)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
43274
63.520—60.529 (Subpart W) Table 1 amended; eff. 7-15-24
43274
63.520—60.529 (Subpart W) Table 2 added; eff. 7-15-24
43274
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
40 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
63 Determination
1041
Technical correction
9844
63.1 (c)(6)(iii) correctly revised
1041
63.99 (a)(37) revised; eff. 7-21-25
26218
○
