(2) Each computer not located within an approved and lockable security storage container that is used to process Safeguards Information must have a removable storage medium with a bootable operating system. The bootable operating system must be used to load and initialize the computer. The removable storage medium must also contain the software application programs. Data may be saved on either the removable storage medium that is used to boot the operating system, or on a different removable storage medium. The removable storage medium must be secured in a locked security storage container when not in use.
(3) A mobile device (such as a laptop computer) may also be used for the processing of Safeguards Information provided the device is secured in a locked security storage container when not in use. Other systems may be used if approved for security by the appropriate NRC office.
(4) Any electronic system that has been used for storage, processing or production of Safeguards Information
must be free of recoverable Safeguards Information prior to being returned to nonexclusive use.
(h)
Removal from Safeguards Information category.
Documents or other matter originally containing Safeguards Information must be removed from the Safeguards Information category at such time as the information no longer meets the criteria contained in this part. Care must be exercised to ensure that any document or other matter decontrolled not disclose Safeguards Information in some other form or be combined with other unprotected information to disclose Safeguards Information. The authority to determine that a document or other matter may be decontrolled will only be exercised by the NRC, with NRC approval, or in consultation with the individual or organization that made the original determination.
(i)
Destruction of matter containing Safeguards Information.
Documents or other matter containing Safeguards Information shall be destroyed when no longer needed. The information can be destroyed by burning, shredding or any other method that precludes reconstruction by means available to the public at large. Piece sizes no wider than one quarter inch composed of several pages or documents and thoroughly mixed are considered completely destroyed.
[73 FR 63574, Oct. 24, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 67275, Nov. 2, 2015; 88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 73.23
Protection of Safeguards Information—Modified Handling: Specific requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024.
This section contains specific requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information in the hands of any person subject to the requirements of § 73.21(a)(1)(ii) and research and test reactors that possess special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or special nuclear material of low strategic significance. The requirements of this section distinguish Safeguards Information requiring modified handling requirements (SGI-M) from the specific Safeguards Information handling requirements applicable to facilities and materials needing a higher level of protection, as set forth in § 73.22.
(a)
Information to be protected.
The types of information and documents that must be protected as Safeguards Information—Modified Handling include non-public security-related requirements such as protective measures, interim compensatory measures, additional security measures, and the following, as applicable:
(1)
Physical protection.
Information not classified as Restricted Data or National Security Information related to physical protection, including:
(i) The composite physical security plan for the facility or site;
(ii) Site specific drawings, diagrams, sketches, or maps that substantially represent the final design features of the physical security system not easily discernible by members of the public;
(iii) Alarm system layouts showing the location of intrusion detection devices, alarm assessment equipment, alarm system wiring, emergency power sources for security equipment, and duress alarms not easily discernible by members of the public;
(iv) Physical security orders and procedures issued by the licensee for members of the security organization detailing duress codes, patrol routes and schedules, or responses to security contingency events;
(v) Site specific design features of plant security communications systems;
(vi) Lock combinations, mechanical key design, or passwords integral to the physical security system;
(vii) The composite facility guard qualification and training plan/measures disclosing features of the physical security system or response procedures;
(viii) Descriptions of security activities which disclose features of the physical security system or response measures;
(ix) Information relating to onsite or offsite response forces, including size, armament of the response forces, and arrival times of such forces committed to respond to security contingency events; and
(x) Engineering and safety analyses, security-related procedures or scenarios, and other information revealing
site-specific details of the facility or materials if the unauthorized disclosure of such analyses, procedures, scenarios, or other information could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
(2)
Physical protection in transit.
Information not classified as Restricted Data or National Security Information related to the physical protection of shipments of special nuclear material in less than a formula quantity (except for those materials covered under § 73.22), including:
(i) Information regarding transportation security measures, including physical security plans and procedures, immobilization devices, and escort requirements, more detailed than NRC regulations;
(ii) Scheduling and itinerary information for shipments (scheduling and itinerary information for shipments that are inherently self-disclosing, such as a shipment that created extensive news coverage or an announcement by a public official confirming receipt, may be decontrolled after shipment departure). Scheduling and itinerary information for shipments that are not inherently self-disclosing may be decontrolled 2 days after the shipment is completed. Scheduling and itinerary information used for the purpose of preplanning, coordination, and advance notification may be shared with others on a “need to know” basis and need not be designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling);
(iii) Arrangements with and capabilities of local police response forces, and locations of safe havens identified along the transportation route;
(iv) Details of alarm and communication systems, communication procedures, and duress codes;
(v) Procedures for response to security contingency events; and
(vi) Engineering or safety analyses, security-related procedures or scenarios and other information related to the protection of the transported material if the unauthorized disclosure of such analyses, procedures, scenarios, or other information could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
(3)
Inspections, audits and evaluations.
Information not classified as National Security Information or Restricted Data pertaining to safeguards and security inspections and reports, including:
(i) Portions of inspection reports, evaluations, audits, or investigations that contain details of a licensee's or applicant's physical security system or that disclose uncorrected defects, weaknesses, or vulnerabilities in the system. Disclosure of corrected defects, weaknesses, or vulnerabilities is subject to an assessment taking into account such factors as trending analyses and the impacts of disclosure on licensees having similar physical security systems; and
(ii) Reports of investigations containing general information may be released after the corrective actions have been completed, unless withheld pursuant to other authorities, e.g., the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
(4)
Correspondence.
Portions of correspondence insofar as they contain Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling, as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.
(5) Other information within the scope of Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, that the Commission determines by order or regulation could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material or a facility.
(b)
Conditions for access.
(1) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may have access to Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling unless the person has an established “need to know” for the information
and has undergone a Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal history records check using the procedures set forth in § 73.57.
(2) In addition, a person to be granted access to Safeguards Information must be trustworthy and reliable, based on a background check or other means approved by the Commission.
(3) The categories of individuals specified in 10 CFR 73.59 are exempt from the criminal history records check and background check requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section by virtue of their occupational status:
(4) For persons participating in an NRC adjudicatory proceeding, the “need to know” determination shall be made by the originator of the Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling upon receipt of a request for access to the Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling. Where the information is in the possession of the originator and the NRC staff, whether in its original form or incorporated into another document or other matter by the recipient, the NRC staff shall make the determination. In the event of a dispute regarding the “need to know” determination, the presiding officer of the proceeding shall determine whether the “need to know” findings in § 73.2 can be made.
(5) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may disclose Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling to any other person except as set forth in this section.
(c)
Protection while in use or storage.
(1) While in use, matter containing Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be under the control of an individual authorized access to such information. This requirement is satisfied if the Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling is attended by such an individual even though the information is in fact not constantly being used. Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling within alarm stations, or rooms continuously occupied by authorized individuals, need not be locked in a file drawer or cabinet.
(2) While unattended, Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be stored in a locked file drawer or cabinet. The container shall not identify the contents of the matter contained and must preclude access by individuals not authorized access in accordance with the provisions of this section. Knowledge of lock combinations or access to keys protecting Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be limited to a minimum number of personnel for operating purposes who have a “need to know” and are otherwise authorized access to Safeguards Information in accordance with the provisions of this Part. Access to lock combinations must be strictly controlled so as to prevent disclosure to an individual not authorized access to Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.
(d)
Preparation and marking of documents or other matter.
(1) Each document or other matter that contains Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling as described in § 73.23(a) and in this section must be marked to indicate the presence of Safeguards Information with modified handling requirements in a conspicuous manner on the top and bottom of each page. The first page of the document or other matter must also contain:
(i) The name, title, and organization of the individual authorized to make a “Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling” determination, and who has determined that the document or other matter contains Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling;
(ii) The date the determination was made; and
(iii) An indication that unauthorized disclosure will be subject to civil and criminal sanctions.
(2) In addition to the markings at the top and bottom of each page, any transmittal letters or memoranda to or from the NRC which do not in themselves contain Safeguards Information
designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling shall be marked to indicate that attachments or enclosures contain Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling but that the transmittal document does not (
i.e.
, “When separated from Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling enclosure(s), this document is decontrolled provided the transmittal document does not otherwise warrant protection from unauthorized disclosure”).
(3) Any transmittal document or other matter forwarding Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must alert the recipient that protected information is enclosed. Certification that a document or other matter contains Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must include the name and title of the certifying official and date designated. Portion marking is required only for correspondence to and from the NRC (
i.e.
, cover letters, but not attachments) that contains Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling. The portion marking must be sufficient to allow the recipient to identify and distinguish those sections of the transmittal document or other information containing the Safeguards Information from non-Safeguards Information.
(4) Marking of documents or other matter containing or transmitting Safeguards Information with modified handling requirements shall, at a minimum include the words “Safeguards Information-Modified Handling” to ensure identification of protected information for the protection of facilities and material covered by § 73.23.
(e)
Reproduction of matter containing Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.
Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling may be reproduced to the minimum extent necessary, consistent with need, without permission of the originator. Equipment used to reproduce Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be evaluated to ensure that unauthorized individuals cannot access the information (e.g. , unauthorized individuals cannot access Safeguards Information by gaining access to retained memory or network connectivity).
(f)
External transmission of documents and material.
(1) Documents or other matter containing Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling, when transmitted outside an authorized place of use or storage, must be packaged in two sealed envelopes or wrappers to preclude disclosure of the presence of protected information. The inner envelope or wrapper must contain the name and address of the intended recipient and be marked on both sides, top and bottom, with the words “Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.” The outer envelope or wrapper must be opaque, addressed to the intended recipient, must contain the address of the sender, and may not bear any markings or indication that the document contains Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.
(2) Safeguards Information designated Safeguards Information-Modified Handling may be transported by any commercial delivery company that provides service with computer tracking features, U.S. first class, registered, express, or certified mail, or by any individual authorized access pursuant to these requirements.
(3) Except under emergency or extraordinary conditions, Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be transmitted electronically only by protected telecommunications circuits (including facsimile) or encryption by a method (Federal Information Processing Standard [FIPS] 140-2 or later) approved by the appropriate NRC office. For the purpose of this section, emergency or extraordinary conditions are defined as any circumstances that require immediate communications in order to report, summon assistance for, or respond to a security contingency event or an event that has potential security significance. Physical security events required to be reported pursuant to §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205 are considered to be extraordinary conditions.
(g)
Processing of Safeguards Information-Modified Handling on electronic systems.
(1) Safeguards Information designated for modified handling may be stored, processed or produced on a computer or computer system, provided that the system is assigned to the licensee's or contractor's facility. Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files must be protected, either by a password or encryption, to prevent unauthorized individuals from gaining access. Word processors such as typewriters are not subject to these requirements as long as they do not transmit information off-site.

# Note:
If Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling is produced on a typewriter, the ribbon must be properly marked and be removed and stored in the same manner as other Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.
(2) Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files may be transmitted over a network if the file is encrypted. In such cases, the licensee will select a commercially available encryption system that the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has validated as conforming to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-2 or later. Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files shall be properly labeled to indicate the presence of Safeguards Information with modified handling requirements and saved to removable matter and stored in a locked file drawer or cabinet.
(3) A mobile device (such as a laptop computer) may also be used for the processing of Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling provided the device is secured in an appropriate locked storage container when not in use. Other systems may be used if approved for security by the appropriate NRC office.
(4) Any electronic system that has been used for storage, processing or production of Safeguards Information must be free of recoverable Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling prior to being returned to nonexclusive use.
(h)
Removal from Safeguards Information-Modified Handling category.
Documents or other matter originally containing Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling must be removed from the Safeguards Information category at such time as the information no longer meets the criteria contained in this Part. Care must be exercised to ensure that any document or other matter decontrolled shall not disclose Safeguards Information in some other form or be combined with other unprotected information to disclose Safeguards Information. The authority to determine that a document or other matter may be decontrolled will only be exercised by the NRC, with NRC approval, or in consultation with the individual or organization that made the original determination.
(i)
Destruction of matter containing Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling.
Documents or other matter containing Safeguards Information shall be destroyed when no longer needed. The information can be destroyed by burning, shredding, or any other method that precludes reconstruction by means available to the public at large. Piece sizes no wider than one quarter inch composed of several pages or documents and thoroughly mixed are considered completely destroyed.
[73 FR 63577, Oct. 24, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024, § 73.23 was amended by removing the phrase “research and test reactors” and adding in its place the phrase “non-power reactors”, effective Jan. 29, 2025.

# Subpart E—Physical Protection Requirements of Special Nuclear Material and Spent Nuclear Fuel in Transit

# Source:
88 FR 15890, Apr. 13, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.24
Prohibitions.
(a) Except as specifically approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
no shipment of special nuclear material shall be made in passenger aircraft in excess of (1) 20 grams or 20 curies, whichever is less, of plutonium or uranium-233, or (2) 350 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope).
(b) Unless otherwise approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, no licensee may make shipments of special nuclear material in which individual shipments are less than a formula quantity, but the total quantity in shipments in transit at the same time could equal or exceed a formula quantity, unless either of the following conditions are met:
(1) The licensee shall confirm and log the arrival at the final destination of each individual shipment and retain the log for three years from the date of the last entry in the log. The licensee shall also schedule shipments to ensure that the total quantity for two or more shipments in transit at the same time does not equal or exceed the formula quantity, or
(2) Physical protection in accordance with the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, and 73.26 is provided by the licensee for such shipments as appropriate so that the total quantity of special nuclear material in the remaining shipments not so protected, and in transit at the same time, does not equal or exceed a formula quantity.
[44 FR 68188, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 19257, May 27, 1988]
§ 73.25
Performance capabilities for physical protection of strategic special nuclear material in transit.
(a) To meet the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20 an in-transit physical protection system shall include the performance capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section unless otherwise authorized by the Commission.
(b) Restrict access to and activity in the vicinity of transports and strategic special nuclear material. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Minimize the vulnerability of the strategic special nuclear material by using the following subfunctions and procedures:
(i) Preplanning itineraries for the movement of strategic special nuclear material;
(ii) Periodically updating knowledge of route conditions for the movement of strategic special nuclear material;
(iii) Maintaining knowledge of the status and position of the strategic special nuclear material en route; and
(iv) Determining and communicating alternative itineraries en route as conditions warrant.
(2) Detect and delay any unauthorized attempt to gain access or introduce unauthorized materials by stealth or force into the vicinity of transports and strategic special nuclear material using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Controlled access areas to isolate strategic special nuclear material and transports to assure that unauthorized persons shall not have direct access to, and unauthorized materials shall not be introduced into the vicinity of, the transports and strategic special nuclear material, and
(ii) Access detection subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any unauthorized penetration (or such attempts) of a controlled access area by persons, vehicles or materials so that the response will satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(3) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized access or introduce unauthorized materials into the vicinity of transports by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Access authorization controls and procedures to provide current authorization schedules and access criteria for persons, materials and vehicles; and
(ii) Access controls and procedures to verify the identity of persons, materials and vehicles, to assess such identity against current authorization schedules and access criteria before permitting access, and to initiate response measures to deny unauthorized entries.
(c) Prevent or delay unauthorized entry or introduction of unauthorized materials into, and unauthorized removal of, strategic special nuclear material from transports. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized entry or introduce unauthorized materials into transports by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Access authorization controls and procedures to provide current authorization schedules and entry criteria for access into transports for both persons and materials; and
(ii) Entry controls and procedures to verify the identity of persons and materials and to permit transport entry only to those persons and materials specified by the current authorization schedules and entry criteria.
(2) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized entry or introduce unauthorized material into transports by stealth or force using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Transport features to delay access to strategic special nuclear material sufficient to permit the detection and response systems to function so as to satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a);
(ii) Inspection and detection subsystems and procedures to detect unauthorized tampering with transports and cargo containers; and
(iii) Surveillance subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any unauthorized presence of persons or materials and any unauthorized attempt to penetrate the transport so that the response will satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(3) Prevent unauthorized removal of strategic special nuclear material from transports by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Authorization controls and procedures to provide current schedules for authorized removal of strategic special nuclear material which specify the persons authorized to remove and receive the material, the authorized times for such removal and receipt and authorized places for such removal and receipt.
(ii) Removal controls and procedures to establish activities for transferring cargo in emergency situations; and
(iii) Removal controls and procedures to permit removal of strategic special nuclear material only after verification of the identity of persons removing or receiving the strategic special nuclear material, and after verification of the identity and integrity of the strategic special nuclear material being removed from transports.
(4) Detect attempts to remove strategic special nuclear material from transports by stealth or force using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Transport features to delay unauthorized strategic special nuclear material removal attempts sufficient to assist detection and permit a response to satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a); and
(ii) Detection subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any attempts at unauthorized removal of strategic special nuclear material so that response to the attempt can be such as to satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(d) Respond to safeguards contingencies and emergencies to assure that the two capabilities in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are achieved, and to engage and impede adversary forces until local law enforcement forces arrive. To achieve this capability, the physical protection system shall:
(1) Respond rapidly and effectively to safeguards contingencies and emergencies using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) A security organization composed of trained and qualifed personnel, including armed escorts, one of whom is designated as escort commander, with procedures for command and control, to execute response functions.
(ii) Assessment procedures to assess the nature and extent of security related incidents.
(iii) A predetermined plan to respond to safeguards contingency events.
(iv) Equipment and procedures to enable responses to security related incidents sufficiently rapid and effective to achieve the predetermined objective of each action.
(v) Equipment, vehicle design features, and procedures to protect security organization personnel, including those at the movement control center, in their performance of assessment and response related functions.
(2) Transmit detection, assessment and other response related information using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Communications equipment and procedures to rapidly and accurately transmit security information among armed escorts.
(ii) Equipment and procedures for two-way communications between the escort commander and the movement control center to rapidly and accurately transmit assessment information and requests for assistance by local law enforcement forces, and to coordinate such assistance.
(iii) Communications equipment and procedures for the armed escorts and the movement control center personnel to notify local law enforcement forces of the need for assistance.
(3) Establish liaisons with local law enforcement authorities to arrange for assistance en route.
(4) Assure that a single adversary action cannot destroy the capability of armed escorts to notify the local law enforcement forces of the need for assistance.
[44 FR 68188, Nov. 28, 1979]
§ 73.26
Transportation physical protection systems, subsystems, components, and procedures.
(a) A transportation physical protection system established pursuant to the general performance objectives and requirements of § 73.20 and performance capability requirements of § 73.25 shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the measures specified in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section. The Commission may require, depending on the individual transportation conditions or circumstances, alternate or additional measures deemed necessary to meet the general performance objectives and requirements of § 73.20. The Commission also may authorize protection measures other than those required by this section if, in its opinion, the overall level of performance meets the general performance objectives and requirements of § 73.20 and the performance capability requirements of § 73.25.
(b)
Planning and scheduling.
(1) Shipments shall be scheduled to avoid regular patterns and preplanned to avoid areas of natural disaster or civil disorders, such as strikes or riots. Such shipments shall be planned in order to avoid storage times in excess of 24 hours and to assure that deliveries occur at a time when the receiver at the final delivery point is present to accept the shipment.
(2) Arrangements shall be made with law enforcement authorities along the route of shipments for their response to an emergency or a call for assistance.
(3) Security arrangements for each shipment shall be approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission prior to the time for the seven-day notice required by § 73.72. Information to be supplied to the Commission in addition to the general security plan information is as follows:
(i) Shipper, consignee, carriers, transfer points, modes of shipment,
(ii) Point where escorts will relinquish responsibility or will accept responsibility for the shipment,
(iii) Arrangements made for transfer of shipment security, and
(iv) Security arrangements at point where escorts accept responsibility for an import shipment.
(4) Hand-to-hand receipts shall be completed at origin and destination and at all points enroute where there is a transfer of custody.
(c)
Export/import shipments.
(1) A licensee who imports a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material shall make arrangements to assure that the material will be protected in transit as follows:
(i) An individual designated by the licensee or his agent, or as specified by a contract of carriage, shall confirm the container count and examine locks and/or seals for evidence of tampering, at the first place in the United States at which the shipment is discharged from the arriving carrier.
(ii) The shipment must be protected at all times within the geographical limits of the United States as provided in this section and §§ 73.25 and 73.27. The licensee shall retain each record required by these sections for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special
nuclear material under each license authorizing the licensee to ship this material, and superseded material for three years after each change.
(2) A licensee who exports a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material shall comply with the requirements of this section and §§ 73.25 and 73.27, as applicable, up to the first point where the shipment is taken off the transport outside the United States. The licensee shall retain each record required by these sections for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license authorizing the licensee to export this material, and superseded material for three years after each change.
(d)
Security organization.
(1) The licensee or his agent shall establish a transportation security organization, including armed escorts, armed response personnel or guards, and a movement control center manned and equipped to monitor and control shipments, to communicate with local law enforcement authorities, and to respond to safeguards contingencies.
(2) At least one full time member of the security organization who has the authority to direct the physical protection activities of the security organization shall be on duty at the movement control center during the course of any shipment.
(3) The licensee or the licensee's agent shall establish, maintain, and follow a written management system to provide for the development, revision, implementation, and enforcement of transportation physical protection procedures. The licensee or the agent shall retain as a record the current management system for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under the license for which the system was developed and, if any portion of the system is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change. The system shall include:
(i) Written security procedures which document the structure of the transportation security organization and which detail the duties of drivers and escorts and other individuals responsible for security; and
(ii) Provision for written approval of such procedures and any revisions thereto by the individual with overall responsibility for the security function.
(4) Neither the licensee nor the licensee's agent shall permit an individual to act as an escort or other security organization member unless the individual has been trained, equipped, and qualified to perform each assigned security job duty in accordance with appendix B, of this part, “General Criteria for Security Personnel.” Upon the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the licensee or the agent shall demonstrate the ability of the physical security personnel to carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities. Armed escorts shall requalify in accordance with appendix B to this part at least every 12 months. Each requalification must be documented. The licensee or the agent shall retain documentation of the initial qualification for the term of employment and of each requalification as a record for three years from the date of the requalification.
(5) Armed escort and armed response force personnel armament shall include handguns, shotguns, and semiautomatic rifles, as described in appendix B to this part.
(e)
Contingency and Response Plans and Procedures.
(1) The licensee or the licensee's agent shall establish, maintain, and follow a written safeguards contingency plan for dealing with threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage related to strategic special nuclear material in transit subject to the provisions of this section. This safeguards contingency plan must be in accordance with the criteria in appendix C of this part, “Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plan.” The licensee or the agent shall retain the contingency plan as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the plan is used and superseded material for three years after each change.
(2) Upon detection of abnormal presence or activity of persons or vehicles attempting to penetrate a moving convoy or persons attempting to gain access to a parked cargo vehicle or upon
evidence or indication of penetration of the cargo vehicle the armed escorts or other armed response personnel shall:
(i) Determine whether or not a threat exists;
(ii) Assess the extent of the threat, if any;
(iii) Take immediate concurrent measures to neutralize the threat by:
(A) Making the necessary tactical moves to prevent or impede acts of radiological sabotage or theft of strategic special nuclear material, and
(B) Informing local law enforcement agencies of the threat and requesting assistance.
(3) The licensee or his agent shall instruct every armed escort and all armed response personnel to prevent or impede acts of radiological sabotage or theft of strategic special material by using sufficient force to counter the force directed at him including the use of deadly force when armed escorts or armed response personnel have a reasonable belief that it is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others.
(f)
Transfer and storage of strategic special nuclear material for domestic shipments.
(1) Strategic special nuclear material shall be placed in a protected area at transfer points if transfer is not immediate from one transport to another. Where a protected area is not available a controlled access area shall be established for the shipment. The transport may serve as a controlled access area.
(2) All transfers shall be protected by at least seven armed escorts or other armed personnel—one of whom shall serve as commander. At least five of the armed personnel (including the commander) shall be available to protect the shipment and at least three of the five shall keep the strategic special nuclear material under continuous surveillance while it is at the transfer point. The two remaining armed personnel shall take up positions at a remote monitoring location. The remote location may be a radio-equipped vehicle or a nearby place, apart from the shipment area, so that a single act cannot remove the capability of the personnel protecting the shipment for calling for assistance. Each of the seven armed escorts or other armed personnel shall be capable of maintaining communication with each other. The commander shall have the capability to communicate with the personnel at the remote location and with local law enforcement agencies for emergency assistance. In addition, the armed escort personnel at the remote location shall have the capability to communicate with the law enforcement agencies and with the shipment movement control center. The commander shall call the remote location at least every 30 minutes to report the status of the shipment. If the calls are not received within the prescribed time, the personnel in the remote location shall request assistance from the law enforcement authorities, notify the shipment movement control center and initiate the appropriate contingency plans. Armed escorts or other armed personnel shall observe the opening of the cargo compartment of the incoming transport and ensure that the shipment is complete by checking locks and seals. A shipment loaded onto or transferred to another transport shall be checked to assure complete loading or transfer. Continuous visual surveillance of the cargo compartment shall be maintained up to the time the transport departs from the terminal. The escorts shall observe the transport until it has departed and shall notify the licensee or his agent of the latest status immediately thereafter.
(g)
Access control subsystems and procedures.
(1) A numbered picture badge identification procedure shall be used to identify all individuals who will have custody of a shipment. The identification procedure shall require that the individual who has possession of the strategic special nuclear material shall have, in advance, identification picture badges of all individuals who are to assume custody for the shipment. The shipment shall be released only when the individual who has possession of strategic special nuclear material has assured positive identification of all of the persons assuming custody for the shipment by comparing the copies of the identification badges that have been received in advance to the identification badges carried by the individuals who will assume custody of the shipment.
(2) Access to protected areas, controlled access areas, transports, escort vehicles, aircraft, rail cars, and containers where strategic special nuclear material is located shall be limited to individuals who have been properly identified and have been authorized access to these areas.
(3) Strategic special nuclear material shall be shipped in containers that are protected by tamper-indicating seals. The containers also shall be locked if they are not in another locked container or transport. The outermost container or transport also shall be protected by tamper-indicating seals.
(h)
Test and maintenance programs.
The licensee or his agent shall establish, maintain and follow a test and maintenance program for communications equipment and other physical protection related devices and equipment used pursuant to this section which shall include the following:
(1) Tests and inspections shall be conducted during the installation, and construction of physical protection related subsystems and components to assure that they comply with their respective design criteria and performance specifications.
(2) Preoperational tests and inspections shall be conducted for physical protection related subsystems and components to demonstrate their effectiveness, availability, and reliability with respect to their respective design criteria and performance specifications.
(3) Operational tests and inspections shall be conducted for physical protection related subsystems and components to assure their maintenance in an operable and effective condition.
(4) Preventive maintenance programs shall be established for physical protection related subsystems and components to assure their continued maintenance in an operable and effective condition.
(5) All physical protection related subsystems and components shall be maintained in operable condition. Corrective action procedures and compensatory measures shall be developed and employed to assure that the effectiveness of the physical protection system is not reduced by any single failure or other contingencies affecting the operation of the physical protection related equipment or structures.
(6) The transportation security program must be reviewed at least every 12 months by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The review must include an audit of transportation security procedures and practices, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the transportation physical protection system, an audit of the transportation physical protection system testing and maintenance program, and an audit of commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results and recommendations of the review, management's findings on whether the transportation security program is currently effective, and any actions taken as a result of recommendations from prior reviews, must be documented in a report to the responsible organization management and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for the day-to-day plant operation. These reports must be maintained in an auditable form, available for inspection for a period of 3 years.
(i)
Shipment by road.
(1) A detailed route plan shall be prepared which shows the routes to be taken, the refueling and rest stops, and the call-in times to the movement control center. All shipments shall be made on primary highways with minimum use of secondary roads. All shipments shall be made without intermediate stops except for refueling, rest or emergency stops.
(2) Cargo compartments of the trucks or trailers shall be locked and protected by tamper-indicating seals.
(3) The shipment shall be protected by one of the following methods:
(i) A specially designed cargo vehicle truck or trailer that reduces the vulnerability to theft. Design features of the truck or trailer shall permit immobilization of the truck or of the cargo-carrying portion of the vehicle and shall provide a deterrent to physical penetration of the cargo compartment. Two separate escort vehicles shall accompany the cargo vehicle. There shall be a total of seven armed escorts with
at least two in the cargo vehicle. Escorts may also operate the cargo and escort vehicles.
(ii) An armored car cargo vehicle. Three separate escort vehicles shall accompany such a cargo vehicle. There shall be a total of seven armed escorts, with at least two in the cargo vehicle. Escorts may also operate the cargo and escort vehicles.
(4) All escort vehicles shall be bullet-resisting.
(5) Procedures shall be established to assure that no unauthorized persons or materials are on the cargo vehicle before strategic special nuclear material is loaded, or on the escort vehicles, immediately before the trip begins.
(6) Cargo and escort vehicles shall maintain continuous intraconvoy two-way communication. In addition at least two of the vehicles shall be equipped with radio telephones having the capability of communicating with the movement control center. A redundant means of communication shall also be available. Calls to the movement control center shall be made at least every half hour to convey the status and position of the shipment. In the event no call is received in accordance with these requirements, the licensee or his agent shall immediately notify the law enforcement authorities and the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, and initiate the appropriate contingency plan.
(7) At refueling, rest, or emergency stops at least seven armed escorts or other armed personnel shall be available to protect the shipment and at least three armed escorts or other armed personnel shall maintain continuous visual surveillance of the cargo compartment.
(8) Transfers to and from other modes of transportation shall be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(j)
Shipment by air.
(1) All shipments on commercial cargo aircraft shall be accompanied by two armed escorts who shall be able to converse in a common language with the captain of the aircraft.
(2) Transfers of these shipments shall be minimized and shall be conducted in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. Such shipments shall be scheduled so that the strategic special nuclear material is loaded last and unloaded first.
(3) At scheduled stops, at least seven armed escorts or other armed personnel shall be available to protect the shipment and at least three armed escorts or other armed personnel shall maintain continuous visual surveillance of the cargo compartment.
(4) Export shipments shall be accompanied by two armed escorts from the last terminal in the United States until the shipment is unloaded at a foreign terminal and primary responsibility for physical protection is assumed by agents of the consignee. While on foreign soil, the escorts may surrender their weapons to legally constituted local authorities. After leaving the last terminal in the United States the shipment shall be scheduled with no intermediate stops.
(5) Import shipments shall be accompanied by two armed escorts at all times within the geographical limits of the United States. These escorts shall provide physical protection for the shipment until relieved by verified agents of the U.S. consignee.
(6) Procedures shall be established to assure that no unauthorized persons or material are on the aircraft before strategic special nuclear material is loaded on board.
(7) Arrangements shall be made at all domestic airports to assure that the seven required armed escorts or other armed personnel are available and that the required security measures will be taken upon landing.
(8) Arrangements shall be made at the foreign terminal at which the shipment is to be unloaded to assure that security measures will be taken on arrival.
(k)
Shipment by rail.
(1) A shipment by rail shall be escorted by seven armed escorts in the shipment car or an escort car next to the shipment car of the train. At least three escorts shall keep the shipment car under continuous visual surveillance. Escorts shall detrain at stops when practicable and time permits to maintain the shipment cars under continuous visual surveillance and to check car or container locks and seals.
(2) Procedures shall be established to assure that no unauthorized persons or materials are on the shipment or escort car before strategic special nuclear material is loaded on board.
(3) Only containers weighing 5,000 lbs or more shall be shipped on open rail cars.
(4) A voice communication capability between the escorts and the movement control center shall be maintained. A redundant means of continuous communication also shall be available. Calls to the movement control center shall be made at least every half hour to convey the status and position of the shipment. In the event no call is received in accordance with these requirements, the licensee or his agent shall immediately notify the law enforcement authorities and the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix A of this part and initiate their contingency plan.
(5) Transfer to and from other modes of transportation shall be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(l)
Shipment by sea.
(1) Shipments shall be made only on container-ships. The strategic special nuclear material container(s) shall be loaded into exclusive use cargo containers conforming to American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard MH5.1—“Basic Requirements for Cargo Containers” (1971) or International Standards Organization (ISO) 1496, “General Cargo Containers” (1978). Locks and seals shall be inspected by the escorts whenever access is possible. The ANSI Standard MH5.1 (1971) and the (ISO) 1496 (1978), have been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register. A copy of each of these standards is available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738.
(2) All shipments shall be accompanied by two armed escorts who shall be able to converse in a common language with the captain of the ship.
(3) Minimum domestic ports of call shall be scheduled and there shall be no scheduled transfer to other vessels after the shipment leaves the last port in the United States. Transfer to and from other modes of transportation shall be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(4) At all ports of call the escorts shall ensure that the shipment is not removed. At least two armed escorts or other armed personnel shall maintain continuous visual surveillance of the cargo area where the container is stored up to the time the ship departs.
(5) Export shipments shall be accompanied by two armed escorts from the last port in the United States until the shipment is unloaded at a foreign terminal and prime responsibility for physical protection is assumed by agents of the consignee. While on foreign soil, the escorts may surrender their weapons to legally constituted local authorities.
(6) Import shipments shall be accompanied by two armed escorts at all times within the geographical limits of the United States. These escorts shall provide physical protection for the shipment until relieved by verified agents of the U.S. consignee.
(7) Ship-to-shore communications shall be available, and a ship-to-shore contact shall be made every six hours to relay position information, and the status of the shipment.
(8) Arrangements shall be made at the foreign terminals at which the shipment is to be unloaded to assure that security measures will be taken upon arrival.
[44 FR 68190, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 2025, Jan. 8, 1981; 53 FR 19257, May 27, 1988; 57 FR 33430, July 29, 1992; 57 FR 61787, Dec. 29, 1992; 59 FR 50689, Oct. 5, 1994; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 14530, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018]
§ 73.27
Notification requirements.
(a)(1) A licensee who delivers formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material to a carrier for transport shall immediately notify the consignee by telephone, telegraph, or teletype, of the time of departure of the shipment, and shall notify or confirm with the consignee the method of transportation, including the names of carriers, and the estimated time of arrival of the shipment at its destination.
(2) In the case of a shipment (f.o.b.) the point where it is delivered to a carrier for transport, a licensee shall, before the shipment is delivered to the carrier, obtain written certification from the licensee who is to take delivery of the shipment at the f.o.b. point that the physical protection arrangements required by §§ 73.25 and 73.26 for licensed shipments have been made. When a contractor exempt from the requirements for a Commission license is the consignee of a shipment, the licensee shall, before the shipment is delivered to the carrier, obtain written certification from the contractor who is to take delivery of the shipment at the f.o.b. point that the physical protection arrangements required by the United States Department of Energy Order Nos. 5632.1 or 5632.2, as appropriate, have been made.
(3) A licensee who delivers formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material to a carrier for transport or releases such special nuclear material f.o.b. at the point where it is delivered to a carrier for transport shall also make arrangements with the consignee to be notified immediately by telephone and telegraph, teletype, or cable, of the arrival of the shipment at its destination or of any such shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the estimated time of arrival at its destination.
(b) Each licensee who receives a shipment of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material shall immediately notify by telephone and telegraph or teletype, the person who delivered the material to a carrier for transport and the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. When a United States Department of Energy license-exempt contractor is the consignee, the licensee who is the consignor shall notify by telephone and telegraph, or teletype, the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response of the arrival of the shipment at its destination immediately upon being notified of the receipt of the shipment by the license-exempt contractor as arranged pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. In the event such a shipment fails to arrive at its destination at the estimated time, or in the case of an export shipment, the licensee who exported the shipment, shall immediately notify by telephone and telegraph or teletype, the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, and the licensee or other person who delivered the material to a carrier for transport. The licensee who made the physical protection arrangements shall also immediately notify by telephone and telegraph, or teletype, the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response of the action being taken to trace the shipment.
(c) Each licensee who makes arrangements for physical protection of a shipment of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material as required by §§ 73.25 and 73.26 shall immediately conduct a trace investigation of any shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the estimated arrival time and file a report with the Commission as specified in §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205.
[44 FR 68192, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 14530, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 73.28
Security background checks for secure transfer of nuclear materials.
Licensees are excepted from the security background check provisions in Section 170I of the AEA if they have not received Orders from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission containing requirements for background checks for trustworthiness and reliability that include fingerprinting and criminal history record checks as a prerequisite for unescorted access to radioactive materials.
[72 FR 3027, Jan. 24, 2007]
§ 73.35
Requirements for physical protection of irradiated reactor fuel (100 grams or less) in transit.
Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a quantity of irradiated reactor fuel weighing 100 grams
(0.22 pounds) or less in net weight of irradiated fuel, exclusive of cladding or other structural or packaging material, which has a total external radiation level in excess of 1 Gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding, shall follow the physical protection requirements for category 1 quantities of radioactive material in subpart D of part 37 of this chapter.
[78 FR 17021, Mar. 19, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 43402, Aug. 9, 2021]
§ 73.37
Requirements for physical protection of irradiated reactor fuel in transit.
(a)
Performance objectives.
(1) Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a quantity of irradiated reactor fuel
1
in excess of 100 grams (0.22 lbs) in net weight of irradiated fuel, exclusive of cladding or other structural or packaging material, which has a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding, shall establish and maintain, or make arrangements for, and assure the proper implementation of, a physical protection system for shipments of such material that will achieve the following objectives:
1
For purposes of 10 CFR 73.37, the terms “irradiated reactor fuel” and “spent nuclear fuel” are used interchangeably.
(i) Minimize the potential for theft, diversion, or radiological sabotage of spent nuclear fuel shipments; and
(ii) Facilitate the location and recovery of spent nuclear fuel shipments that may have come under the control of unauthorized persons.
(2) To achieve these objectives, the physical protection system shall:
(i) Provide for early detection and assessment of attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or control over, spent nuclear fuel shipments;
(ii) Delay and impede attempts at theft, diversion, or radiological sabotage of spent nuclear fuel shipments; and
(iii) Provide for notification to the appropriate response forces of any attempts at theft, diversion, or radiological sabotage of a spent nuclear fuel shipment.
(b)
General requirements.
To achieve the performance objectives of paragraph (a) of this section, a physical protection system established and maintained, or arranged for, by the licensee shall include the following elements:
(1)
Preplan and coordinate spent nuclear fuel shipments.
Each licensee shall:
(i) Ensure that each armed escort, as defined in § 73.2, is instructed on the use of force sufficient to counter the force directed at the person, including the use of deadly force when the armed escort has a reasonable belief that the use of deadly force is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others, or any other circumstances, as authorized by applicable Federal and State laws. This deadly force training requirement does not apply to members of local law enforcement agencies (LLEAs) performing escort duties for spent nuclear fuel shipments.
(ii) Preplan and coordinate shipment itineraries to ensure that the receiver at the final delivery point is present to accept the shipment.
(iii) Ensure written certification of any transfer of custody.
(iv) Preplan and coordinate shipment information no later than 2 weeks prior to the shipment or prior to the first shipment of a series of shipments with the governor of a State, or the governor's designee, of a shipment of spent nuclear fuel through or across the boundary of the State, in order to:
(A) Minimize intermediate stops and delays;
(B) Arrange for State law enforcement escorts;
(C) Arrange for positional information sharing when requested; and
(D) Develop route information, including the identification of safe havens.
(v) Arrange with local law enforcement authorities along the shipment route, including U.S. ports where vessels carrying spent nuclear fuel shipments are docked, for their response to a security-related emergency or a call for assistance.
(vi) Preplan and coordinate with the NRC to obtain advance approval of the
routes used for road and rail shipments of spent nuclear fuel, and of any U.S. ports where vessels carrying spent nuclear fuel shipments are scheduled to stop. In addition to the requirements of this section, routes used for shipping spent nuclear fuel shall comply with the applicable requirements of the DOT regulations in Title 49 of the
Code of Federal Regulations
(49 CFR), in particular those identified in § 71.5 of this chapter. The advance approval application shall provide:
(A) For road shipments, the route shall include locations of safe havens that have been coordinated with the appropriate State(s).
(B) The NRC approval shall be obtained prior to the 10-day advance notification requirement in § 73.72 of this part.
(C) Information to be supplied to the NRC shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
(
1
) Shipper, consignee, carriers, transfer points, modes of shipment; and
(
2
) A statement of shipment security arrangements, including, if applicable, points where armed escorts transfer responsibility for the shipment.
(vii) Document the preplanning and coordination activities.
(viii) Ensure the protection of Safeguards Information relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit in accordance with §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this part, especially the information described in § 73.22(a)(2), which would include, at a minimum, the protection of the following information:
(A) The preplanning and coordination activities;
(B) Transportation physical security plan;
(C) Schedules and itineraries for specific spent nuclear fuel shipments until the information is no longer controlled as Safeguards Information, that is until at least 10 days after the shipment has entered or originated within the state; or for the case of a shipment in a series of shipments whose schedules are related, a statement that schedule information must be protected until 10 days after the last shipment in the series has entered or originated within the state and an estimate of the date on which the last shipment in the series will enter or originate within the state;
(D) Vehicle immobilization features, intrusion alarm devices, and communications;
(E) Arrangements with and capabilities of local police response forces, and locations of safe havens identified along the transportation route;
(F) Limitations of communications during transport;
(G) Procedures for response to security contingency events;
(H) Information concerning the tactics and capabilities required to defend against attempted sabotage, or theft and diversion of irradiated reactor fuel, or related information; and
(I) Engineering or safety analyses, security-related procedures or scenarios and other information related to the protection of the transported material if the unauthorized disclosure of such analyses, procedures, scenarios, or other information could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(2)
Advance notifications.
Prior to the shipment of spent nuclear fuel moving through or across the boundary of any State, outside the confines of the licensee's facility or other place of use or storage, a licensee subject to this section shall provide notification to the NRC, under § 73.72 of this part, and the governor of the State(s), or the governor's designee(s), of the spent nuclear fuel shipment. After June 11, 2013, the compliance date of the Tribal notification final rule, a licensee subject to this section shall notify the Tribal official or Tribal official's designee of each participating Tribe referenced in § 71.97(c)(3) of this chapter prior to the transport of spent fuel within or across the Tribal reservation. Contact information for each State, including telephone and mailing addresses of governors and governors' designees, and participating Tribes, including telephone and mailing addresses of Tribal officials and Tribal official's designees, is available on the NRC Web site at:
https://scp.nrc.gov/special/designee.pdf”.
A list of the contact information is
also available upon request from the Director, Division of Materials Safety, Security, State, and Tribal Programs, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. The licensee shall comply with the following criteria in regard to each notification:
(i)
Procedures for submitting advance notification.
(A) The notification must be in writing and sent to the office of each appropriate governor or the governor's designee and each appropriate Tribal official or the Tribal official's designee.
(B) A notification delivered by mail must be postmarked at least 10 days before transport of a shipment within or through the State or Tribal reservation.
(C) A notification delivered by any other method must reach the office of the governor or the governor's designee and any Tribal official or Tribal official's designee at least 7 days before transport of a shipment within or through the State.
(ii)
Information to be furnished in advance notification of shipment.
The notification must include the following information:
(A) The name, address, and telephone number of the shipper, carrier and receiver of the shipment and the license number of the shipper and receiver;
(B) A description of the shipment as specified by DOT in 49 CFR 172.202 and 172.203(d); and
(C) A listing of the routes to be used within the State or Tribal reservation.
(iii)
Separate enclosure.
The licensee shall provide the following information, under § 73.22(f)(1), in a separate enclosure to the written notification:
(A) The estimated date and time of departure from the point of origin of the shipment;
(B) The estimated date and time of entry into the State or Tribal reservation;
(C) The estimated date and time of arrival of the shipment at the destination;
(D) For the case of a single shipment whose schedule is not related to the schedule of any subsequent shipment, a statement that schedule information must be protected under the provisions of §§ 73.21 and 73.22 until at least 10 days after the shipment has entered or originated within the State or Tribal reservation; and
(E) For the case of a shipment in a series of shipments whose schedules are related, a statement that schedule information must be protected under the provisions of §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this part until 10 days after the last shipment in the series has entered or originated within the State or Tribal reservation, and an estimate of the date on which the last shipment in the series will enter or originate within the State or Tribal reservation.
(iv)
Revision notice.
A licensee shall notify by telephone a responsible individual in the office of the governor or in the office of the governor's designee and the office of the Tribal official or in the office of the Tribal official's designee of any schedule change that differs by more than 6 hours from the schedule information previously furnished under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, and shall inform that individual of the number of hours of advance or delay relative to the written schedule information previously furnished.
(v)
Cancellation notice.
Each licensee who cancels a shipment for which advance notification has been sent shall send a cancellation notice to the governor or to the governor's designee of each State previously notified, each Tribal official or the Tribal official's designee previously notified, and to the NRC's Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. The licensee shall state in the notice that it is a cancellation and identify the advance notification that is being canceled.
(vi)
Records.
The licensee shall retain a copy of the preplanning and coordination activities, advance notification, and any revision or cancellation notice as a record for 3 years under § 73.70 of this part.
(3)
Transportation physical protection program.
(i) The transportation physical protection program established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include armed escorts to protect spent nuclear fuel shipments and a movement control center, as defined in § 73.2 of this part, staffed and equipped to monitor and control spent nuclear
fuel shipments, to communicate with local law enforcement authorities, and to respond to safeguards contingencies.
(ii) The movement control center must be staffed continuously by at least one individual who will actively monitor the progress of the spent nuclear fuel shipment and who has the authority to coordinate the physical protection activities.
(iii) The movement control center personnel must monitor the shipment continuously,
i.e.
, 24-hours per day, from the time the shipment commences, or if delivered to a carrier for transport, from the time of delivery of the shipment to the carrier, until safe delivery of the shipment at its final destination, and must immediately notify the appropriate agencies in the event of a safeguards event under the provisions of § 73.1200 of this part.
(iv) The movement control center personnel and the armed escorts must maintain a written log for each spent nuclear fuel shipment, which will include information describing the shipment and significant events that occur during the shipment. The log must be available for review by authorized NRC personnel for a period of at least 3 years following completion of the shipment.
(v) The licensee shall develop, maintain, revise and implement written transportation physical protection procedures which address the following:
(A) Access controls to ensure no unauthorized persons have access to the shipment and Safeguards Information;
(B) Roles and responsibilities of the movement control center personnel, drivers, armed escorts and other individuals relative to the security of the shipment;
(C) Reporting of safeguards events under § 73.1200 of this part;
(D) Communications protocols that include a strategy for the use of authentication and duress codes, the management of refueling or other stops, detours, and the loss of communications, temporarily or otherwise; and
(E) Normal conditions operating procedures.
(vi) The licensee shall retain as a record the transportation physical protection procedures for 3 years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the spent nuclear fuel.
(vii) The transportation physical protection program shall:
(A) Provide that escorts (other than members of local law enforcement agencies serving as armed escorts, or ship's officers serving as unarmed escorts) have successfully completed the training required by appendix D of this part, including the equivalent of the weapons training and qualifications program required of guards, as described in sections III and IV of appendix B of this part, to assure that each such individual is fully qualified to use the assigned weapons;
(B) Provide that shipment escorts communicate with the movement control center at random intervals, not to exceed 2 hours, to advise of the status of the shipment for road and rail shipments, and for sea shipments while shipment vessels are docked at U.S. ports; and
(C) Provide that at least one armed escort remains alert at all times, maintains constant visual surveillance of the shipment, and periodically reports to the movement control center at regular intervals not to exceed 30 minutes during periods when the shipment vehicle is stopped, or the shipment vessel is docked.
(viii)(A) The licensee must ensure that the firearms background check requirements of § 73.17 are met for all armed escorts whose official duties require access to covered weapons or who inventory enhanced weapons.
(B) The provisions of this paragraph are only applicable to licensees subject to this section who are also subject to the firearms background check provisions of § 73.17.
(C) The provisions of this paragraph are not applicable to members of local law enforcement agencies serving as armed escorts or ship's officers serving as unarmed escorts.
(4)
Contingency and response procedures.
(i) In addition to the procedures established under paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, the licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow written contingency and response procedures to address threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage related to spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(ii) The licensee shall ensure that personnel associated with the shipment shall be appropriately trained regarding contingency and response procedures.
(iii) The licensee shall retain the contingency and response procedures as a record for 3 years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the spent nuclear fuel.
(iv) The contingency and response procedures must direct that, upon detection of the abnormal presence of unauthorized persons, vehicles, or vessels in the vicinity of a spent nuclear fuel shipment or upon detection of a deliberately induced situation that has the potential for damaging a spent nuclear fuel shipment, the armed escort will:
(A) Determine whether or not a threat exists;
(B) Assess the extent of the threat, if any;
(C) Implement the procedures developed under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section;
(D) Take the necessary steps to delay or impede threats, thefts, or radiological sabotage of spent nuclear fuel; and
(E) Inform local law enforcement agencies of the threat and request assistance without delay, but not to exceed 15 minutes after discovery.
(c)
Shipments by road.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the physical protection system for any portion of a spent nuclear fuel shipment by road shall provide that:
(1) The transport vehicle is:
(i) Occupied by at least two individuals, one of whom serves as an armed escort, and escorted by an armed member of the local law enforcement agency in a mobile unit of such agency; or
(ii) Led by a separate vehicle occupied by at least one armed escort, and trailed by a third vehicle occupied by at least one armed escort.
(2) As permitted by law, all armed escorts are equipped with a minimum of two weapons. This requirement does not apply to local law enforcement agency personnel who are performing escort duties.
(3) The transport vehicle and each escort vehicle are equipped with redundant communication abilities that provide 2-way communications between the transport vehicle, the escort vehicle(s), the movement control center, local law enforcement agencies, and one another. To ensure that 2-way communication is possible at all times, alternate communications should not be subject to the same failure modes as the primary communication.
(4) The transport vehicle is equipped with NRC-approved features that permit immobilization of the cab or cargo-carrying portion of the vehicle.
(5) The transport vehicle driver has been familiarized with, and is capable of implementing, transport vehicle immobilization, communications, and other security procedures.
(6) Shipments are continuously and actively monitored by a telemetric position monitoring system or an alternative tracking system reporting to a movement control center. A movement control center shall provide positive confirmation of the location, status, and control over the shipment. The movement control center shall implement preplanned procedures in response to deviations from the authorized route or a notification of actual, attempted, or suspicious activities related to the theft, loss, diversion, or radiological sabotage of a shipment. These procedures shall include, but not be limited to, the identification of and contact information for the appropriate local law enforcement agency along the shipment route.
(d)
Shipments by rail.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the physical protection system for any portion of a spent nuclear fuel shipment by rail shall provide that:
(1) A shipment car is accompanied by two armed escorts (who may be members of a local law enforcement agency), at least one of whom is stationed at a location on the train that will permit observation of the shipment car while in motion.
(2) As permitted by law, all armed escorts are equipped with a minimum of two weapons. This requirement does not apply to local law enforcement agency personnel who are performing escort duties.
(3) The train operator(s) and each escort are equipped with redundant communication abilities that provide 2-way
communications between the transport, the escort vehicle(s), the movement control center, local law enforcement agencies, and one another. To ensure that 2-way communication is possible at all times, alternate communications should not be subject to the same failure modes as the primary communication.
(4) Rail shipments are monitored by a telemetric position monitoring system or an alternative tracking system reporting to the licensee, third-party, or railroad movement control center. The movement control center shall provide positive confirmation of the location of the shipment and its status. The movement control center shall implement preplanned procedures in response to deviations from the authorized route or to a notification of actual, attempted, or suspicious activities related to the theft, diversion, or radiological sabotage of a shipment. These procedures shall include, but not be limited to, the identification of and contact information for the appropriate local law enforcement agency along the shipment route.
(e)
Shipments by U.S. waters.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the physical protection system for any portion of a spent nuclear fuel shipment traveling on U.S. waters shall provide that:
(1) A shipment vessel while docked at a U.S. port is protected by:
(i) Two armed escorts stationed on board the shipment vessel, or stationed on the dock at a location that will permit observation of the shipment vessel; or
(ii) A member of a local law enforcement agency, equipped with normal local law enforcement agency radio communications, who is stationed on board the shipment vessel, or on the dock at a location that will permit observation of the shipment vessel.
(2) As permitted by law, all armed escorts are equipped with a minimum of two weapons. This requirement does not apply to local law enforcement agency personnel who are performing escort duties.
(3) A shipment vessel while within U.S. territorial waters shall be accompanied by an individual, who may be an officer of the shipment vessel's crew, who will assure that the shipment is unloaded only as authorized by the licensee.
(4) Each armed escort is equipped with redundant communication abilities that provide 2-way communications between the vessel, the movement control center, local law enforcement agencies, and one another. To ensure that 2-way communication is possible at all times, alternate communications should not be subject to the same failure modes as the primary communication.
(f)
Investigations.
Each licensee who makes arrangements for the shipment of spent nuclear fuel shall immediately conduct an investigation, in coordination with the receiving licensee, of any shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the designated no-later-than arrival time in the advance notification.
(g) State officials, State employees, Tribal officials, Tribal employees, and other individuals, whether or not licensees of the NRC, who receive information of the kind specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section and any other Safeguards Information as defined in § 73.22(a) of this part shall protect that information against unauthorized disclosure as specified in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this part.
[78 FR 29550, May 20, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 30288, June 28, 2018; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021; 88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 73.38
Personnel access authorization requirements for irradiated reactor fuel in transit.
(a)
General.
(1) Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a quantity of spent nuclear fuel as described in § 73.37(a)(1) of this part shall comply with the requirements of this section, as appropriate, before any spent nuclear fuel is transported or delivered to a carrier for transport.
(2) Each licensee shall establish, implement, and maintain its access authorization program under the requirements of this section.
(i) Each licensee shall be responsible for the continuing effectiveness of the access authorization program.
(ii) Each licensee shall ensure that the access authorization program is reviewed at an appropriate frequency to confirm compliance with the requirements of this section and that prompt comprehensive actions are taken to correct any noncompliance that is identified.
(iii) The review shall evaluate all program performance objectives and requirements.
(iv) Each review report must document conditions that are adverse to the proper performance of the access authorization program, the cause of the condition(s), and when appropriate, recommended corrective actions, and corrective actions taken. The licensee shall review the audit findings and take any additional corrective actions necessary to preclude repetition of the condition, including reassessment of the deficient areas where indicated.
(3) By August 19, 2013, each licensee that is subject to this provision shall implement the requirements of this section through revisions to its physical security plan or transportation security plan.
(b)
General performance objective.
The licensee's access authorization program must ensure that the individuals specified in paragraph (c) of this section are trustworthy and reliable such that they do not constitute an unreasonable risk to public health and safety or the common defense and security.
(c)
Applicability.
(1) Licensees shall subject the following individuals to an access authorization program:
(i) Any individual to whom a licensee intends to grant unescorted access to spent nuclear fuel in transit, including employees of a contractor or vendor;
(ii) Any individual whose duties and responsibilities permit the individual to take actions by physical or electronic means that could adversely impact the safety, security, or emergency response to spent nuclear fuel in transit (
i.e.
, movement control personnel, vehicle drivers, or other individuals accompanying spent nuclear fuel shipments);
(iii) Any individual whose duties and responsibilities include implementing a licensee's physical protection program under § 73.37, including but not limited to, non-LLEA armed escorts;
(iv) Any individual whose assigned duties and responsibilities provide access to spent nuclear fuel shipment information that is considered to be Safeguards Information under § 73.22(a)(2); and
(v) The licensee access authorization program reviewing official.
(2) Fingerprinting, and the identification and criminal history records checks required by Section 149 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and other elements of the background investigation are not required for the following individuals prior to granting access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit:
(i) Persons identified in §§ 73.59 and 73.61 of this part;
(ii) Federal, State, and local officials, including inspectors, whose occupational status are consistent with the promotion of common defense and security and the protection of public health and safety relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit;
(iii) Emergency response personnel who are responding to an emergency;
(iv) An individual who has had a favorably adjudicated U.S. Government criminal history records check within the last 5 years, under a comparable U.S. Government program involving fingerprinting and an FBI identification and criminal history records check (e.g. National Agency Check, Transportation Worker Identification Credentials (TWIC) under 49 CFR part 1572, Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives background check and clearances under 27 CFR part 555, Health and Human Services security risk assessments for possession and use of select agents and toxins under 42 CFR part 73, Hazardous Material security threat assessment for hazardous material endorsement to commercial drivers license under 49 CFR part 1572, Customs and Border Patrol's Free and Secure Trade (FAST) Program) provided that he or she makes available the appropriate documentation. Written confirmation from the agency/employer that granted the Federal security clearance or reviewed the criminal history records check must be provided to the licensee. The licensee shall retain this documentation for a period of 3 years from the date the individual no
longer requires access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit; and
(v) Any individual who has an active Federal security clearance, provided that he or she makes available the appropriate documentation. Written confirmation from the agency/employer that granted the Federal security clearance or reviewed the criminal history records check must be provided to the licensee. The licensee shall retain this documentation for a period of 3 years from the date the individual no longer requires access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(d)
Background investigation.
Before allowing an individual to have unescorted access or access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel
2
in transit the licensees shall complete a background investigation as defined in § 73.2 of this part of the individual seeking to have unescorted access or access authorization. The scope of the investigation must encompass at least the past 10 years, or if 10 years of information is not available then as many years in the past that information is available. The background investigation does not apply to Federal, State or local law enforcement personnel who are performing escort duties. The background investigation must include, but is not limited to, the following elements:
2
For purposes of 10 CFR 73.38, the terms “irradiated reactor fuel” as described in 10 CFR 73.37 and “spent nuclear fuel” are used interchangeably.
(1)
Informed consent.
Licensees shall not initiate any element of a background investigation without the informed and signed consent of the subject individual. This consent shall include authorization to share personal information with appropriate entities. The licensee to whom the individual is applying for access authorization shall inform the individual of his or her right to review information collected to assure its accuracy, and provide the individual with an opportunity to correct any inaccurate or incomplete information that is developed by the licensee.
(i) The subject individual may withdraw his or her consent at any time. Licensees shall inform the individual that:
(A) Withdrawal of his or her consent will remove the individual's application for access authorization under the licensee's access authorization program; and
(B) Other licensees shall have access to information documenting the withdrawal.
(ii) If an individual withdraws his or her consent, licensees may not initiate any elements of the background investigation that were not in progress at the time the individual withdrew his or her consent, but shall complete any background investigation elements that are in progress at the time consent is withdrawn. The licensee shall record the status of the individual's application for access authorization. Additionally, licensees shall collect and maintain the individual's application for access authorization; his or her withdrawal of consent for the background investigation; the reason given by the individual for the withdrawal; and any pertinent information collected from the background investigation elements that were completed. This information must be shared with other licensees under paragraph (l)(4) of this section.
(iii) Licensees shall inform, in writing, any individual who is applying for access authorization that the following actions are sufficient cause for denial or unfavorable termination of access authorization status:
(A) Refusal to provide a signed consent for the background investigation;
(B) Refusal to provide, or the falsification of, any personal history information required under this section, including the failure to report any previous denial or unfavorable termination of access authorization;
(C) Refusal to provide signed consent for the sharing of personal information with other licensees under paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section; or
(D) Failure to report any arrests or legal actions specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Personal history disclosure.
Any individual who is required to have a background investigation under this
section shall disclose the personal history information that is required by the licensee's access authorization program for the reviewing official to make a determination of the individual's trustworthiness and reliability. Refusal to provide, or the falsification of, any personal history information required by this section is sufficient cause for denial or termination of access authorization.
(3)
Criminal history.
Fingerprinting and an FBI identification and criminal history records check under § 73.57 of this part.
(4)
Verification of true identity.
Licensees shall verify the true identity of an individual who is applying to have access authorization to ensure that the applicant is who they claim to be. A licensee shall review official identification documents (e.g., driver's license, passport, government identification, State, province, or country of birth issued certificate of birth) and compare the documents to personal information data provided by the individual to identify any discrepancy in the information. Licensees shall document the type, expiration, and identification number of the identification, or maintain a photocopy of identifying documents on file under § 73.38(c). Licensees shall certify and affirm in writing that the identification was properly reviewed and maintain the certification and all related documents for review upon inspection.
(5)
Employment history evaluation.
Licensees shall ensure that an employment history evaluation has been completed on a best effort basis, by questioning the individual's present and former employers, and by determining the activities of the individual while unemployed.
(i) For the claimed employment period, the individual must provide the reason for any termination, eligibility for rehire, and other information that could reflect on the individual's trustworthiness and reliability.
(ii) If the claimed employment was military service the individual shall provide a characterization of service, reason for separation, and any disciplinary actions that could affect a trustworthiness and reliability determination.
(iii) If education is claimed in lieu of employment, the individual shall provide any information related to the claimed education that could reflect on the individual's trustworthiness and reliability and, at a minimum, verify that the individual was registered for the classes and received grades that indicate that the individual participated in the educational process during the claimed period.
(iv) If a previous employer, educational institution, or any other entity with which the individual claims to have been engaged fails to provide information or indicates an inability or unwillingness to provide information within 3 business days of the request, the licensee shall:
(A) Document this refusal or unwillingness in the licensee's record of the investigation; and
(B) Obtain a confirmation of employment, educational enrollment and attendance, or other form of engagement claimed by the individual from at least one alternate source that has not been previously used.
(v) When any licensee is seeking the information required for an access authorization decision under this section and has obtained a signed release from the subject individual authorizing the disclosure of such information, other licensees shall make available the personal or access authorization information requested regarding the denial or unfavorable termination of an access authorization.
(vi) In conducting an employment history evaluation, the licensee may obtain information and documents by electronic means, including, but not limited to, telephone, facsimile, or email. Licensees shall make a record of the contents of the telephone call and shall retain that record, and any documents or electronic files obtained electronically, under paragraph (l) of this section.
(6)
Credit history evaluation.
Licensees shall ensure the evaluation of the full credit history of any individual who is applying for access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit. A full credit history evaluation must include, but is not limited to, an inquiry to detect potential fraud or misuse of
social security numbers or other financial identifiers, and a review and evaluation of all of the information that is provided by a national credit-reporting agency about the individual's credit history. For foreign nationals and U.S. citizens who have resided outside the U.S. and do not have established credit history that covers at least the most recent 7 years in the U.S., the licensee must document all attempts to obtain information regarding the individual's credit history and financial responsibility from some relevant entity located in that other country or countries.
(7)
Criminal history review.
The licensee shall evaluate the entire criminal history record of an individual who is applying for access authorization to determine whether the individual has a record of criminal activity that may adversely impact his or her trustworthiness and reliability. The scope of the applicant's criminal history review must cover all residences of record for the 10-year period preceding the date of application for access authorization.
(8)
Character and reputation determination.
Licensees shall ascertain the character and reputation of an individual who has applied for access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit by conducting reference checks. Reference checks may not be conducted with any person who is known to be a close member of the individual's family, including but not limited to, the individual's spouse, parents, siblings, or children, or any individual who resides in the individual's permanent household. The reference checks must focus on the individual's reputation for trustworthiness and reliability.
(9)
Corroboration.
The licensee shall also, to the extent possible, obtain independent information to corroborate that provided by the individual (e.g., seek references not supplied by the individual).
(e)
Determination of trustworthiness and reliability; Documentation.
(1) The licensee shall determine whether to grant, deny, unfavorably terminate, maintain, or administratively withdraw an individual's access authorization based on an evaluation of all of the information required by this section. The licensee may terminate or administratively withdraw an individual's access authorization based on information obtained after the background investigation has been completed and the individual granted access authorization.
(2) The licensee may not permit any individual to have unescorted access or access authorization until all of the information required by this section has been evaluated by the reviewing official and the reviewing official has determined that the individual is trustworthy and reliable. The licensee may deny unescorted access or access authorization to any individual based on disqualifying information obtained at any time during the background investigation.
(f)
Protection of information.
(1) Licensees shall protect background investigation information from unauthorized disclosure.
(2) Licensees may not disclose the background investigation information collected and maintained to persons other than the subject individual, his/her representative, or to those who have a need to know in performing assigned duties related to the process of granting or denying unescorted access to spent nuclear fuel in transit. No individual authorized to have access to the information may re-disseminate the information to any other individual who does not have a need to know.
(3) The personal information obtained on an individual from a background investigation may be transferred to another licensee:
(i) Upon the individual's written request to the licensee holding the data to re-disseminate the information contained in his/her file; and
(ii) The acquiring licensee verifies information such as name, date of birth, social security number, sex, and other applicable physical characteristics for identification.
(4) The licensee shall make background investigation records obtained under this section available for examination by an authorized representative of the NRC to determine compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
(5) The licensee shall retain all fingerprint and criminal history records received from the FBI, or a copy if the file has been transferred, on an individual (including data indicating no record) for 5 years from the date the individual no longer requires unescorted access or access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(g)
Grandfathering.
For purposes of this section, licensees are not required to obtain the fingerprints of any person who has been fingerprinted, pursuant to an NRC order or regulation, for an FBI identification and criminal history records check within the 5 years of the effective date of this rule.
(h)
Reinvestigations.
Licensees shall conduct fingerprinting and FBI identification and criminal history records check, a criminal history review, and credit history re-evaluation every 10 years for any individual who has unescorted access authorization to spent nuclear fuel in transit. The reinvestigations must be completed within 10 years of the date on which these elements were last completed and should address the 10 years following the previous investigation.
(i)
Self-reporting of legal actions.
(1) Any individual who has applied for an access authorization or is maintaining an access authorization under this section shall promptly report to the reviewing official, his or her supervisor, or other management personnel designated in licensee procedures any legal action(s) taken by a law enforcement authority or court of law to which the individual has been subject that could result in incarceration or a court order or that requires a court appearance, including but not limited to an arrest, an indictment, the filing of charges, or a conviction, but excluding minor civil actions or misdemeanors such as parking violations or speeding tickets. The recipient of the report shall, if other than the reviewing official, promptly convey the report to the reviewing official. On the day that the report is received, the reviewing official shall evaluate the circumstances related to the reported legal action(s) and re-determine the reported individual's access authorization status.
(2) The licensee shall inform the individual of this obligation, in writing, prior to granting unescorted access or certifying access authorization.
(j)
Access authorization procedures.
(1) Licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for conducting background investigations for persons who are applying for unescorted access or access authorization for spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(2) Licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for updating background investigations for persons who are applying for reinstatement of unescorted access or access authorization.
(3) Licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures to ensure that persons who have been denied unescorted access or access authorization are not allowed access to spent nuclear fuel in transit or information relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(4) Licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for the notification of individuals who are denied unescorted access or access authorization for spent nuclear fuel in transit. The procedures shall include provisions for the review, at the request of the affected individual, of a denial or termination of unescorted access or access authorization. The procedure must contain a provision to ensure that the individual is informed of the grounds for the denial or termination of unescorted access or access authorization and allow the individual an opportunity to provide additional relevant information.
(k)
Right to correct and complete information.
(1) Prior to any final adverse determination, licensees shall provide each individual subject to this section with the right to complete, correct, and explain information obtained as a result of the licensee's background investigation. Confirmation of receipt by the individual of this notification must be maintained by the licensee for a period of 1 year from the date of the notification.
(2) If after reviewing their criminal history record an individual believes that it is incorrect or incomplete in any respect and wishes to change, correct, update, or explain anything in the record, the individual may initiate challenge procedures.
(l)
Records.
(1) The licensee shall retain documentation regarding the trustworthiness and reliability of individual employees for 5 years from the date the individual no longer requires unescorted access or access authorization relative to spent nuclear fuel in transit.
(2) The licensee shall retain a copy of the current access authorization program procedures as a record for 5 years after the procedure is no longer needed or until the Commission terminates the license, if the license is terminated before the end of the retention period. If any portion of the procedure is superseded, the licensee shall retain the superseded material for 5 years after the record is superseded.
(3) The licensee shall retain the list of persons approved for unescorted access or access authorization and the list of those individuals that have been denied unescorted access or access authorization for 5 years after the list is superseded or replaced.
(4) Licensees who have been authorized to add or manipulate data that is shared with licensees subject to this section shall ensure that data linked to the information about individuals who have applied for unescorted access or access authorization, which is specified in the licensee's access authorization program documents, is retained.
(i) If the shared information used for determining individual's trustworthiness and reliability changes or new or additional information is developed about the individual, the licensees that acquire this information shall correct or augment the data and ensure it is shared with licensees subject to this section. If the changed, additional or developed information has implications for adversely affecting an individual's trustworthiness and reliability, licensees who discovered or obtained the new, additional or changed information, shall, on the day of discovery, inform the reviewing official of any licensee access authorization program under which the individual is maintaining his or her unescorted access or access authorization status of the updated information.
(ii) The reviewing official shall evaluate the shared information and take appropriate actions, which may include denial or unfavorable termination of the individual's unescorted access or access authorization. If the notification of change or updated information cannot be made through usual methods, licensees shall take manual actions to ensure that the information is shared as soon as reasonably possible. Records maintained in any database(s) must be available for the NRC review.
(5) If a licensee administratively withdraws an individual's unescorted access or access authorization status caused by a delay in completing any portion of the background investigation or for a licensee initiated evaluation, or re-evaluation that is not under the individual's control, the licensee shall record this administrative action to withdraw the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization and shall share this information with other licensees subject to this section. However, licensees shall not document this administrative withdrawal as denial or unfavorable termination and shall not respond to a suitable inquiry conducted under the provisions of 10 CFR part 26, a background investigation conducted under the provisions of this section, or any other inquiry or investigation as denial nor unfavorable termination. Upon favorable completion of the background investigation element that caused the administrative withdrawal, the licensee shall immediately ensure that any matter that could link the individual to the administrative action is eliminated from the subject individual's access authorization or personnel record and other records, except if a review of the information obtained or developed causes the reviewing official to unfavorably terminate or deny the individual's unescorted access.
[78 FR 29553, May 20, 2013]

# Subpart F—Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites

# Source:
88 FR 15881, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.40
Physical protection: General requirements at fixed sites.
Each licensee shall provide physical protection at a fixed site, or contiguous sites where licensed activities are conducted, against radiological sabotage, or against theft of special nuclear material, or against both, in accordance with the applicable sections of this Part for each specific class of facility or material license. If applicable, the licensee shall establish and maintain physical security in accordance with security plans approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
[58 FR 13700, Mar. 15, 1993]
§ 73.45
Performance capabilities for fixed site physical protection systems.
(a) To meet the general performance requirements of § 73.20 a fixed site physical protection system shall include the performance capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section unless otherwise authorized by the Commission.
(b) Prevent unauthorized access of persons, vehicles and materials into material access areas and vital areas. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized access or introduce unauthorized material across material access or vital area boundaries by stealth or force using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Barriers to channel persons and material to material access and vital area entry control points and to delay any unauthorized penetration attempts by persons or materials sufficient to assist detection and permit a response that will prevent the penetration; and
(ii) Access detection subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any unauthorized penetration attempts by persons or materials at the time of the attempt so that the response can prevent the unauthorized access or penetration.
(2) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized access or introduce unauthorized materials into material access areas or vital areas by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Access authorization controls and procedures to provide current authorization schedules and entry criteria for both persons and materials; and
(ii) Entry controls and procedures to verify the identity of persons and materials and assess such identity against current authorization schedules and entry criteria before permitting entry and to initiate response measures to deny unauthorized entries.
(c) Permit only authorized activities and conditions within protected areas, material access areas, and vital areas. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect unauthorized activities or conditions within protected areas, material access areas and vital areas using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Controls and procedures that establish current schedules of authorized activities and conditions in defined areas;
(ii) Boundaries to define areas within which the authorized activities and conditions are permitted; and
(iii) Detection and surveillance subsystems and procedures to discover and assess unauthorized activities and conditions and communicate them so that response can be such as to stop the activity or correct the conditions to satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(d) Permit only authorized placement and movement of strategic special nuclear material within material access areas. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect unauthorized placement and movement of strategic special nuclear material within the material access area using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Controls and procedures to delineate authorized placement and control for strategic special nuclear material;
(ii) Controls and procedures to establish current authorized placement and movement of all strategic special nuclear material within material access areas;
(iii) Controls and procedures to maintain knowledge of the identity, quantity, placement, and movement of all strategic special nuclear material within material access areas; and
(iv) Detection and monitoring subsystems and procedures to discover and
assess unauthorized placement and movement of strategic special nuclear material and communicate them so that response can be such as to return the strategic special nuclear material to authorized placement or control.
(e) Permit removal of only authorized and confirmed forms and amounts of strategic special nuclear material from material access areas. To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect attempts at unauthorized removal of strategic special nuclear material from material access areas by stealth or force using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Barriers to channel persons and materials exiting a material access area to exit control points and to delay any unauthorized strategic special nuclear material removal attempts sufficient to assist detection and assessment and permit a response that will prevent the removal; and satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a); and
(ii) Detection subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any attempts at unauthorized removal of strategic special nuclear material so that response to the attempt can be such as to prevent the removal and satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(2) Confirm the identity and quantity of strategic special nuclear material presented for removal from a material access area and detect attempts at unauthorized removal of strategic special nuclear material from material access areas by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Authorization controls and procedures to provide current schedules for authorized removal of strategic special nuclear material which specify the authorized properties and quantities of material to be removed, the persons authorized to remove the material, and the authorized time schedule;
(ii) Removal controls and procedures to identify and confirm the properties and quantities of material being removed and verify the identity of the persons making the removal and time of removal and assess these against the current authorized removal schedule before permitting removal; and
(iii) Communications subsystems and procedures to provide for notification of an attempted unauthorized or unconfirmed removal so that response can be such as to prevent the removal and satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(f) Provide for authorized access and assure detection of and response to unauthorized penetrations of the protected area to satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a). To achieve this capability the physical protection system shall:
(1) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized access or introduce unauthorized persons, vehicles, or materials into the protected area by stealth or force using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Barriers to channel persons, vehicles, and materials to protected area entry control points; and to delay any unauthorized penetration attempts or the introduction of unauthorized vehicles or materials sufficient to assist detection and assessment and permit a response that will prevent the penetration or prevent such penetration and satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a); and
(ii) Access detection subsystems and procedures to detect, assess and communicate any unauthorized access or penetrations or such attempts by persons, vehicles, or materials at the time of the act or the attempt so that the response can be such as to prevent the unauthorized access or penetration, and satisfy the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a).
(2) Detect attempts to gain unauthorized access or introduce unauthorized persons, vehicles, or materials into the protected area by deceit using the following subsystems and subfunctions:
(i) Access authorization controls and procedures to provide current authorization schedules and entry criteria for persons, vehicles, and materials; and
(ii) Entry controls and procedures to verify the identity of persons, materials and vehicles and assess such identity against current authorization schedules before permitting entry and to initiate response measures to deny unauthorized access.
(g)
Response.
Each physical protection program shall provide a response capability to assure that the five capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section are achieved and that adversary forces will be engaged and impeded until offsite assistance forces arrive. To achieve this capability a licensee shall:
(1) Establish a security organization to:
(i) Provide trained and qualified personnel to carry out assigned duties and responsibilities; and
(ii) Provide for routine security operations and planned and predetermined response to emergencies and safeguards contingencies.
(2) Establish a predetermined plan to respond to safeguards contingency events.
(3) Provide equipment for the security organization and facility design features to:
(i) Provide for rapid assessment of safeguards contingencies;
(ii) Provide for response by assigned security organization personnel which is sufficiently rapid and effective to achieve the predetermined objective of the response; and
(iii) Provide protection for the assessment and response personnel so that they can complete their assigned duties.
(4) Provide communications networks to:
(i) Transmit rapid and accurate security information among onsite forces for routine security operation, assessment of a contingency, and response to a contingency; and
(ii) Transmit rapid and accurate detection and assessment information to offsite assistance forces.
(5) Assure that a single adversary action cannot destroy the capability of the security organization to notify offsite response forces of the need for assistance.
[44 FR 68193, Nov. 28, 1979]
§ 73.46
Fixed site physical protection systems, subsystems, components, and procedures.
(a) A licensee physical protection system established pursuant to the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20(a) and the performance capability requirements of § 73.45 shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the measures specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section. The Commission may require, depending on individual facility and site conditions, alternate or additional measures deemed necessary to meet the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20. The Commission also may authorize protection measures other than those required by this section if, in its opinion, the overall level of performance meets the general performance objective and requirements of § 73.20 and the performance capability requirements of § 73.45.
(b)
Security organization.
(1) The licensee shall establish a security organization, including guards. If a contract guard force is utilized for site security, the licensee's written agreement with the contractor will clearly show that (i) the licensee is responsible to the Commission for maintaining safeguards in accordance with Commission regulations and the licensee's security plan, (ii) the NRC may inspect, copy, and take away copies of all reports and documents required to be kept by Commission regulations, orders, or applicable license conditions whether such reports and documents are kept by the licensee or the contractor, (iii) the requirement, in § 73.46(b)(4) of this section that the licensee demonstrate the ability of physical security personnel to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities, include demonstration of the ability of the contractor's physical security personnel to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities in carrying out the provisions of the Security Plan and these regulations, and (iv) the contractor will not assign any personnel to the site who have not first been made aware of these responsibilities.
(2) The licensee shall have onsite at all times at least one full time member of the security organization with authority to direct the physical protection activities of the security organization.
(3) The licensee shall have a management system to provide for the development, revision, implementation, and enforcement of security procedures. The system shall include:
(i) Written security procedures which document the structure of the security organization and which detail the duties of the Tactical Response Team, guards, watchmen, and other individuals responsible for security. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current procedures as a record until the Commission terminates the license for which these procedures were developed and, if any portion of these procedures is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change; and
(ii) Provision for written approval of such procedures and any revisions thereto by the individual with overall responsibility for the security function.
(4) The licensee may not permit an individual to act as a Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, guard, or other member of the security organization unless the individual has been trained, equipped, and qualified to perform each assigned security duty in accordance with Appendix B of this part, “General Criteria for Security Personnel.” In addition, Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall be trained, equipped, and qualified for use of their assigned weapons in accordance with paragraphs (b)(6) and (b)(7) of this section. Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall also be trained and qualified in accordance with either paragraphs (b)(10) and (b)(11) or paragraph (b)(12) of this section. Upon the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the licensee shall demonstrate the ability of the physical security personnel, whether licensee or contractor employees, to carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities. Each Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, and guard, whether a licensee or contractor employee, shall requalify in accordance with Appendix B of this part. Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall also requalify in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section at least once every 12 months. The licensee shall document the results of the qualification and requalification. The licensee shall retain the documentation of each qualification and requalification as a record for 3 years after each qualification and requalification.
(5) Within any given period of time, a member of the security organization may not be assigned to, or have direct operational control over, more than one of the redundant elements of a physical protection subsystem if such assignment or control could result in the loss of effectiveness of the subsystem.
(6) Each guard shall be armed with a handgun, as described in appendix B of this part. Each Tactical Response Team member shall be armed with a 9mm semiautomatic pistol. All but one member of the Tactical Response Team shall be armed additionally with either a shotgun or semiautomatic rifle, as described in appendix B of this part. The remaining member of the Tactical Response Team shall carry, as an individually assigned weapon, a rifle of no less caliber than .30 inches or 7.62mm.
(7) In addition to the weapons qualification and requalification criteria of appendix B of this part, Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall qualify and requalify, at least every 12 months, for day and night firing with assigned weapons in accordance with Appendix H of this part. Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall be permitted to practice fire prior to qualification and requalification but shall be given only one opportunity to fire for record on the same calendar day. If a Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, or guard fails to qualify or requalify, the licensee shall remove the individual from security duties which require the use of firearms and retrain the individual prior to any subsequent attempt to qualify or requalify. If an individual fails to qualify or requalify on two successive attempts, he or she shall be required to receive additional training and successfully fire two consecutive qualifying scores prior to being reassigned to armed security duties.
(i) In addition, Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall be prepared to demonstrate day and night firing qualification with their assigned weapons at
any time upon request by an authorized representative of the NRC.
(ii) The licensee or the licensee's agent shall document the results of weapons qualification and requalification for day and night firing. The licensee shall retain the documentation of each qualification and requalification as a record for 3 years after each qualification and requalification.
(8) In addition to the training requirements contained in appendix B of this part, Tactical Response Team members shall successfully complete training in response tactics. The licensee shall document the completion of training. The licensee shall retain the documentation of training as a record for three years after training is completed.
(9) The licensee shall conduct Tactical Response Team and guard exercises to demonstrate the overall security system effectiveness and the ability of the security force to perform response and contingency plan responsibilities and to demonstrate individual skills in assigned team duties. During the first 12-month period following the date specified in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, an exercise must be carried out at least every three months for each shift, half of which are to be force-on-force. Subsequently, during each 12-month period commencing on the anniversary of the date specified in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, an exercise must be carried out at least every four months for each shift, one third of which are to be force-on-force. The licensee shall use these exercises to demonstrate its capability to respond to attempts to steal strategic special nuclear material. During each of the 12-month periods, the NRC shall observe one of the force-on-force exercises which demonstrates overall security system performance. The licensee shall notify the NRC of the scheduled exercise 60 days prior to that exercise. The licensee shall document the results of all exercises. The licensee shall retain the documentation of each exercise as a record for three years after each exercise is completed.
(10) In addition to the medical examinations and physical fitness requirements of paragraph I.C of Appendix B of this part, each Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, and guard, except as provided in paragraph (b)(10)(v) of this section, shall participate in a physical fitness training program on a continuing basis.
(i) The elements of the physical fitness training program must include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
(A) Training sessions of sufficient frequency, duration, and intensity to be of aerobic benefit, e.g., normally a frequency of three times per week, maintaining an intensity of approximately 75 percent of maximum heart rate for 20 minutes;
(B) Activities that use large muscle groups, that can be maintained continuously, and that are rhythmical and aerobic in nature, e.g., running, bicycling, rowing, swimming, or cross-country skiing; and
(C) Musculoskeletal training exercises that develop strength, flexibility, and endurance in the major muscle groups, e.g., legs, arms, and shoulders.
(ii) The licensee shall assess Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards for general fitness once every 4 months to determine the effectiveness of the continuing physical fitness training program. Assessments must include a recent health history, measures of cardiovascular fitness, percent of body fat, flexibility, muscular strength, and endurance. Individual exercise programs must be modified to be consistent with the needs of each participating Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, and guard and consistent with the environments in which they must be prepared to perform their duties. Individuals who exceed 4 months without being assessed for general fitness due to excused time off from work must be assessed within 15 calendar days of returning to duty as a Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, or guard.
(iii) Within 30 days prior to participation in the physical fitness training program, the licensee shall give Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards a medical examination including a determination and written certification by a licensed physician that there are no
medical contraindications, as disclosed by the medical examination, to participation in the physical fitness training program.
(iv) Licensees may temporarily waive an individual's participation in the physical fitness training program on the advice of the licensee's examining physician, during which time the individual may not be assigned duties as a Tactical Response Team member.
(v) Guards whose duties are to staff the central or secondary alarm station and those who control exit or entry portals are exempt from the physical fitness training program specified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section, provided that they are not assigned temporary response guard duties.
(11) In addition to the physical fitness demonstration contained in paragraph I.C of Appendix B of this part, Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall meet or exceed the requirements in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) through (b)(11)(v) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(11)(vi) of this section, initially and at least once every 12 months thereafter.
(i) For Tactical Response Team members the criteria are a 1-mile run in 8 minutes and 30 seconds or less and a 40-yard dash starting from a prone position in 8 seconds or less. For armed response personnel and guards that are not members of the Tactical Response Team the criteria are a one-half mile run in 4 minutes and 40 seconds or less and a 40-yard dash starting from a prone position in 8.5 seconds or less. The test may be taken in ordinary athletic attire under the supervision of licensee designated personnel. The licensee shall retain a record of each individual's performance for 3 years.
(ii) Incumbent Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall meet or exceed the qualification criteria within 12 months of NRC approval of the licensee's revised Fixed Site Physical Protection Plan. New employees hired after the approval date shall meet or exceed the qualification criteria prior to assignment as a Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, or guard.
(iii) Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall be given a medical examination including a determination and written certification by a licensed physician that there are no medical contraindications, as disclosed by the medical examination, to participation in the physical fitness performance testing. The medical examination must be given within 30 days prior to the first administration of the physical fitness performance test, and on an annual basis thereafter.
(iv) The licensee shall place Tactical Response Team members, armed response persons, and guards, who do not meet or exceed the qualification criteria, in a monitored remedial physical fitness training program and relieve them of security duties until they satisfactorily meet or exceed the qualification criteria.
(v) Licensees may temporarily waive the annual performance testing for an individual on the advice of the licensee's examining physician, during which time the individual may not be assigned duties as a Tactical Response Team member.
(vi) Guards whose duties are to staff the central or secondary alarm station and those who control exit or entry portals are exempt from the annual performance testing specified in paragraph (b)(11) of this section, provided that they are not assigned temporary response guard duties.
(12) The licensee may elect to comply with the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section. In addition to the physical fitness qualifications of paragraph I.C of Appendix B of this part, each licensee subject to the requirements of this section shall develop and submit to the NRC for approval site specific, content-based, physical fitness performance tests which will—when administered to each Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, or guard—duplicate the response duties these individuals may need to perform during a strenuous tactical engagement.
(i) The test must be administered to each Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, and guard once
every 3 months. The test must specifically address the physical capabilities needed by armed response personnel during a strenuous tactical engagement at the licensed facility. Individuals who exceed 3 months without having been administered the test due to excused time off from work must be tested within 15 calendar days of returning to duty as a Tactical Response Team member, armed response person, or guard.
(ii) Within 30 days before the first administration of the physical fitness performance test, and on an annual basis thereafter, Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards shall be given a medical examination including a determination and written certification by a licensed physician that there are no medical contraindications, as disclosed by the medical examination, to participation in the physical fitness performance test.
(iii) Guards whose duties are to staff the central or secondary alarm station and those who control exit or entry portals are exempt from the performance test specified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section, provided that they are not assigned temporary response guard duties.
(c)
Physical barrier subsystems.
(1) vital equipment must be located only within a vital area, and strategic special nuclear material must be stored or processed only in a material access area. Both vital areas and material access areas must be located within a protected area so that access to vital equipment and to strategic special nuclear material requires passage through at least three physical barriers. The perimeter of the protected area must be provided with two separated physical barriers with an intrusion detection system placed between the two. The inner barrier must be positioned and constructed to enhance assessment of penetration attempts and to delay attempts at unauthorized exit from the protected area. The perimeter of the protected area must also incorporate features and structures that prevent forcible vehicle entry. More than one vital area or material access area may be located within a single protected area.
(2) The physical barriers at the perimeter of the protected area shall be separated from any other barrier designated as a physical barrier for a vital area or material access area within the protected area.
(3) Isolation zones shall be maintained in outdoor areas adjacent to the physical barrier at the perimeter of the protected area and shall be large enough to permit observation of the activities of people on either side of that barrier in the event of its penetration. If parking facilities are provided for employees or visitors, they shall be located outside the isolation zone and exterior to the protected area.
(4) Isolation zones and all exterior areas within the protected area shall be provided with illumination sufficient for the monitoring and observation requirements of paragraphs (c)(3), (e)(8), (h)(4) and (h)(6) of this section, but not less than 0.2 footcandle measured horizontally at ground level.
(5) Strategic special nuclear material, other than alloys, fuel elements or fuel assemblies, shall:
(i) Be stored in a vault when not undergoing processing if the material can be used directly in the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device. Vaults used to protect such material shall be capable of preventing entry to stored SSNM by a single action in a forced entry attempt, except as such single action would both destroy the barrier and render contained SSNM incapable of being removed, and shall provide sufficient delay to prevent removal of stored SSNM prior to arrival of response personnel capable of neutralizing the design basis threat stated in § 73.1.
(ii) Be stored in tamper-indicating containers;
(iii) Be processed only in material access areas constructed with barriers that provide significant delay to penetration; and
(iv) Be kept in locked compartments or locked process equipment while undergoing processing except when personally attended.
(6) Enriched uranium scrap (enriched to 20% or greater) in the form of small pieces, cuttings, chips, solutions or in
other forms which result from a manufacturing process, contained in 30 gallon or larger containers with a uranium-235 content of less than 0.25 grams per liter, may be stored within a locked and separately fenced area within a larger protected area provided that the storage area fence is no closer than 25 feet to the perimeter of the protected area. The storage area when unoccupied shall be protected by a guard or watchman who shall patrol at intervals not exceeding 4 hours, or by intrusion alarms.
(d)
Access control subsystems and procedures.
(1) A numbered picture badge identification subsystem shall be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escort. An individual not employed by the licensee but who requires frequent and extended access to protected, material access, or vital areas may be authorized access to such areas without escort provided that he receives a picture badge upon entrance into the protected area and returns the badge upon exit from the protected area, and that the badge indicates, (i) Non-employee—no escort required; (ii) areas to which access is authorized and (iii) the period for which access has been authorized. Badges shall be displayed by all individuals while inside the protected areas.
(2) Unescorted access to vital areas, material access areas and controlled access areas shall be limited to individuals who are authorized access to the material and equipment in such areas, and who require such access to perform their duties. Access to material access areas shall include at least two individuals. Authorization for such individuals shall be indicated by the issuance of specially coded numbered badges indicating vital areas, material access areas, and controlled access areas to which access is authorized. No activities other than those which require access to strategic special nuclear material or to equipment used in the processing, use, or storage of strategic special nuclear material, or necessary maintenance, shall be permitted within a material access area.
(3) The licensee shall establish and follow written procedures that will permit access control personnel to identify those vehicles that are authorized and those materials that are not authorized entry to protected, material access, and vital areas. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current procedures as a record until the Commission terminates each license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the procedures is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
(4)(i) The licensee shall control all points of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area. Identification and search of all individuals for firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices must be made and authorization must be checked at these points except for Federal, State, and local law enforcement personnel on official duty and United States Department of Energy couriers engaged in the transport of special nuclear material. The search function for detection of firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices must be accomplished through the use of detection equipment capable of detecting both firearms and explosives. The individual responsible for the last access control function (controlling admission to the protected area) shall be isolated within a structure with bullet resisting walls, doors, ceiling, floor, and windows.
(ii) When the licensee has cause to suspect that an individual is attempting to introduce firearms, explosives, or incendiary devices into a protected area, the licensee shall conduct a physical pat-down search of that individual. Whenever firearms or explosives detection equipment at a portal is out of service or not operating satisfactorily, the licensee shall conduct a physical pat-down search of all persons who would otherwise have been subject to search using the equipment.
(5) At the point of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area, all hand-carried packages except those carried by individuals exempted from personal search under the provisions of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this part must be searched for firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices.
(6) All packages and material for delivery into a protected area must be checked for proper identification and
authorization and searched for firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices prior to admittance into the protected area, except those Commission-approved delivery and inspection activities specifically designated by the licensee to be carried out within material access, vital, or protected areas for reasons of safety, security, or operational necessity.
(7) All vehicles, except United States Department of Energy vehicles engaged in transporting special nuclear material and emergency vehicles under emergency conditions, shall be searched for firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices prior to entry into the protected area. Vehicle areas to be searched shall include the cab, engine compartment, undercarriage, and cargo area.
(8) All vehicles, except designated licensee vehicles, requiring entry into the protected area shall be escorted by a member of the security organization while within the protected area, and to the extent practicable shall be off-loaded in an area that is not adjacent to a vital area. Designated licensee vehicles shall be limited in their use to onsite plant functions and shall remain in the protected area except for operational, maintenance, security and emergency purposes. The licensee shall exercise positive control over all such designated vehicles to assure that they are used only by authorized persons and for authorized purposes.
(9) The licensee shall control all points of personnel and vehicle access to material access areas, vital areas, and controlled access areas. At least two armed guards trained in accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and appendix B of this part shall be posted at each material access area control point whenever in use. Identification and authorization of personnel and vehicles must be verified at the material access area control point. Prior to entry into a material access area, packages must be searched for firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices. All vehicles, materials and packages, including trash, wastes, tools, and equipment exiting from a material access area must be searched for concealed strategic special nuclear material by a team of at least two individuals who are not authorized access to that material access area. Each individual exiting a material access area shall undergo at least two separate searches for concealed strategic special nuclear material. For individuals exiting an area that contains only alloyed or encapsulated strategic special nuclear material, the second search may be conducted in a random manner.
(10) Before exiting from a material access area, containers of contaminated wastes must be drum scanned and tamper sealed by at least two individuals, working and recording their findings as a team, who do not have access to material processing and storage areas. The licensee shall retain the records of these findings for three years after the record is made.
(11) Strategic special nuclear material being prepared for shipment offsite, including product, samples and scrap, shall be packed and placed in sealed containers in the presence of at least two individuals working as a team who shall verify and certify the content of each shipping container through the witnessing of gross weight measurements and nondestructive assay, and through the inspection of tamper seal integrity and associated seal records.
(12) Areas used for preparing strategic special nuclear material for shipment and areas used for packaging and screening trash and wastes shall be controlled access areas and shall be separated from processing and storage areas.
(13) Individuals not permitted by the licensee to enter protected areas without escort must be escorted by a watchman or other individual designated by the licensee while in a protected area and must be badged to indicate that an escort is required. In addition, the individual shall be required to register his or her name, date, time, purpose of visit and employment affiliation, citizenship, and name of the individual to be visited in a log. The licensee shall retain each log as a record for three years after the last entry is made in the log.
(14) All keys, locks, combinations and related equipment used to control access to protected, material access,
vital, and controlled access areas shall be controlled to reduce the probability of compromise. Whenever there is evidence that a key, lock, combination, or related equipment may have been compromised it shall be changed. Upon termination of employment of any employee, keys, locks, combinations, and related equipment to which that employee had access, shall be changed.
(15) The licensee may not announce or otherwise communicate to its employees or site contractors the arrival or presence of an NRC safeguards inspector unless specifically requested to do so by the NRC safeguards inspector.
(e)
Detection, surveillance and alarm subsystems and procedures.
(1) The licensee shall provide an intrusion alarm subsystem with a capability to detect penetration through the isolation zone and to permit response action.
(2) All emergency exits in each protected, material access, and vital area shall be locked to prevent entry from the outside and alarmed to provide local visible and audible alarm annunciation.
(3) All unoccupied vital areas and material access areas shall be locked and protected by an intrusion alarm subsystem which will alarm upon the entry of a person anywhere into the area, upon exit from the area, and upon movement of an individual within the area, except that for process material access areas only the location of the strategic special nuclear material within the area is required to be so alarmed. Vaults and process areas that contain strategic special nuclear material that has not been alloyed or encapsulated shall also be under the surveillance of closed circuit television that is monitored in both alarm stations. Additionally, means shall be employed which require that an individual other than an alarm station operator be present at or have knowledge of access to such unoccupied vaults or process areas.
(4) All manned access control points in the protected area barrier, all security patrols and guard stations within the protected area, and both alarm stations shall be provided with duress alarms.
(5) All alarms required pursuant to this section shall annunciate in a continuously manned central alarm station located within the protected area and in at least one other independent continuously manned onsite station not necessarily within the protected area, so that a single act cannot remove the capability of calling for assistance or responding to an alarm. The alarm stations shall be controlled access areas and their walls, doors, ceiling, floor, and windows shall be bullet-resisting. The central alarm station shall be located within a building so that the interior of the central alarm station is not visible from the perimeter of the protected area. This station may not contain any operational activities that would interfere with the execution of the alarm response function.
(6) All alarms required by this section shall remain operable from independent power sources in the event of the loss of normal power. Switchover to standby power shall be automatic and shall not cause false alarms on annunciator modules.
(7) All alarm devices including transmission lines to annunciators shall be tamper indicating and self-checking e.g., an automatic indication shall be provided when a failure of the alarm system or a component occurs, when there is an attempt to compromise the system, or when the system is on standby power. The annunciation of an alarm at the alarm stations shall indicate the type of alarm (e.g., intrusion alarm, emergency exit alarm, etc.) and location. The status of all alarms and alarm zones shall be indicated in the alarm stations.
(8) All exterior areas within the protected area shall be monitored or periodically checked to detect the presence of unauthorized persons, vehicles, materials, or unauthorized activities.
(9) Methods to observe individuals within material access areas to assure that strategic special nuclear material is not moved to unauthorized locations or in an unauthorized manner shall be provided and used on a continuing basis.
(f)
Communication subsystems.
(1) Each guard, watchman, or armed response individual on duty shall be capable of
maintaining continuous communication with an individual in each continuously manned alarm station required by paragraph (e)(5) of this section, who shall be capable of calling for assistance from other guards, watchmen, and armed response personnel and from law enforcement authorities.
(2) Each alarm station required by paragraph (e)(5) of this section shall have both conventional telephone service and radio or microwave transmitted two-way voice communication, either directly or through an intermediary, for the capability of communication with the law enforcement authorities.
(3) Non-portable communications equipment controlled by the licensee and required by this section shall remain operable from independent power sources in the event of the loss of normal power.
(g)
Test and maintenance programs.
The licensee shall have a test and maintenance program for intrusion alarms, emergency exit alarms, communications equipment, physical barriers, and other physical protection related devices and equipment used pursuant to this section that shall provide for the following:
(1) Tests and inspections during the installation and construction of physical protection related subsystems and components to assure that they comply with their respective design criteria and performance specifications.
(2) Preoperational tests and inspections of physical protection related subsystems and components to demonstrate their effectiveness and availability with respect to their respective design criteria and performance specifications.
(3) Operational tests and inspections of physical protection related subsystems and components to assure their maintenance in an operable and effective condition, including:
(i) Testing of each intrusion alarm at the beginning and end of any period that it is used. If the period of continuous use is longer than seven days, the intrusion alarm shall also be tested at least once every seven days.
(ii) Testing of communications equipment required for communications onsite, including duress alarms, for performance not less frequently than once at the beginning of each security personnel work shift. Communications equipment required for communications offsite shall be tested for performance not less than once a day.
(4) Preventive maintenance programs shall be established for physical protection related subsystems and components to assure their continued maintenance in an operable and effective condition.
(5) All physical protection related subsystems and components shall be maintained in operable condition. The licensee shall develop and employ corrective action procedures and compensatory measures to assure that the effectiveness of the physical protection system is not reduced by failure or other contingencies affecting the operation of the security related equipment or structures. Repairs and maintenance shall be performed by at least two individuals working as a team who have been trained in the operation and performance of the equipment. The security organization shall be notified before and after service is performed and shall conduct performance verification tests after the service has been completed.
(6) The security program must be reviewed at least every 12 months by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The security program review must include an audit of security procedures and practices, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the physical protection system, an audit of the physical protection system testing and maintenance program, and an audit of commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results and recommendations of the security program review, and any actions taken, must be documented in a report to the licensee's plant manager and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for the day-to-day plant operations. These reports must be maintained in an auditable form, available for inspection for a period of 3 years.
(h)
Contingency and response plans and procedures.
(1) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow an NRC-approved safeguards contingency plan for responding to threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage related to the strategic special nuclear material and nuclear facilities subject to the provisions of this section. Safeguards contingency plans must be in accordance with the criteria in appendix C to this part, “Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans.” Contingency plans must include, but not limited to, the response requirements listed in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(5) of this section. The licensee shall retain the current safeguards contingency plan as a record until the Commission terminates the license and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain that superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of change.
(2) The licensee shall establish and document response arrangements that have been made with local law enforcement authorities. The licensee shall retain documentation of the current arrangements as a record until the Commission terminates each license requiring the arrangements and, if any arrangement is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
(3) A Tactical Response Team consisting of a minimum of five (5) members must be available at the facility to fulfill assessment and response requirements. In addition, a force of guards or armed response personnel also must be available to provide assistance as necessary. The size and availability of the additional force must be determined on the basis of site-specific considerations that could affect the ability of the total onsite response force to engage and impede the adversary force until offsite assistance arrives. The rationale for the total number and availabiliy of onsite armed response personnel must be included in the physical protection plans submitted to the Commission for approval.
(4) Upon detection of abnormal presence or activity of persons or vehicles within an isolation zone, a protected area, a material access area, or a vital area, or upon evidence or indication of intrusion into a protected area, a material access area, or a vital area, the licensee security organization shall:
(i) Determine whether or not a threat exists,
(ii) Assess the extent of the threat, if any,
(iii) Take immediate concurrent measures to neutralize the threat by:
(A) Requiring responding guards or other armed response personnel to interpose themselves between vital areas and material access areas and any adversary attempting entry for purposes of radiological sabotage or theft of strategic special nuclear material and to intercept any person exiting with special nuclear material, and
(B) Informing local law enforcement agencies of the threat and requesting assistance.
(5) The licensee shall instruct every guard and all armed response personnel to prevent or impede acts of radiological sabotage or theft of strategic special nuclear material by using force sufficient to counter the force directed at him including the use of deadly force when the guard or other armed response person has a reasonable belief that it is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others.
(6) To facilitate initial response to detection of penetration of the protected area and assessment of the existence of a threat, a capability of observing the isolation zones and the physical barrier at the perimeter of the protected area shall be provided, preferably by means of closed circuit television or by other suitable means which limit exposure of responding personnel to possible attack.
(7) Alarms occurring within unoccupied vaults and unoccupied material access areas containing unalloyed or unencapsulated strategic special nuclear material shall be assessed by at least two security personnel using closed circuit television (CCTV) or other remote means.
(8) Alarms occurring within unoccupied material access areas that contain only alloyed or encapsulated strategic special nuclear material shall be assessed as in paragraph (h)(7) of this section or by at least two security personnel who shall undergo a search before exiting the material access area.
(i)
Implementation schedule for revisions to physical protection plans.
(1) By November 28, 1994, each licensee shall submit a revised Fixed Site Physical Protection Plan to the NRC for approval. The revised plan must describe how the licensee will comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section or the requirements of (b)(12) of this section. Revised plans must be mailed to the Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555.
(2) Each licensee shall implement the approved plan pursuant to paragraphs (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section or (b)(12) of this section within 1 year after NRC approval of the revised Fixed Site Physical Protection Plan.
[44 FR 68194, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 19258, May 27, 1988; 53 FR 23383, June 22, 1988; 53 FR 45452, Nov. 10, 1988; 57 FR 33430, July 29, 1992; 58 FR 29522, May 21, 1993; 58 FR 45784, Aug. 31, 1993; 59 FR 38348, July 28, 1994; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 73.50
Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities.
Each licensee who is not subject to § 73.51, but who possesses, uses, or stores formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material that are not readily separable from other radioactive material and which have a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surfaces without intervening shielding other than at a nuclear reactor facility licensed under parts 50 or 52 of this chapter, shall comply with the following:
(a)
Physical security organization.
(1) The licensee shall establish a security organization, including guards, to protect his facility against radiological sabotage and the special nuclear material in his possession against theft.
(2) At least one supervisor of the security organization shall be on site at all times.
(3) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow written security procedures that document the structure of the security organization and detail the duties of guards, watchmen, and other individuals responsible for security. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current procedures as a record until the Commission terminates each license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the procedures is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
(4) The licensee may not permit an individual to act as a guard, watchman, armed response person, or other member of the security organization unless the individual has been trained, equipped, and qualified to perform each assigned security job duty in accordance with appendix B, “General Criteria for Security Personnel,” to this part. Upon the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the licensee shall demonstrate the ability of the physical security personnel to carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities. Each guard, watchman, armed response person, and other member of the security organization shall requalify in accordance with appendix B to this part at least every 12 months. This requalification must be documented. The licensee shall retain the documentation of each requalification as a record for three years after the requalification.
(b)
Physical barriers.
(1) The licensee shall locate vital equipment only within a vital area, which, in turn, shall be located within a protected area such that access to vital equipment requires passage through at least two physical barriers. More than one vital area may be within a single protected area.
(2) The licensee shall locate material access areas only within protected areas such that access to the material access area requires passage through at least two physical barriers. More than one material access area may be within a single protected area.
(3) The physical barrier at the perimeter of the protected area shall be separated from any other barrier designated as a physical barrier within the protected area, and the intervening space monitored or periodically checked to detect the presence of persons or vehicles so that the facility security organization can respond to suspicious activity or to the breaching of any physical barrier.
(4) An isolation zone shall be maintained around the physical barrier at the perimeter of the protected area and any part of a building used as part of that physical barrier. The isolation zone shall be monitored to detect the presence of individuals or vehicles within the zone so as to allow response by armed members of the license security organization to be initiated at the time of penetration of the protected area. Parking facilities, both for employees and visitors, shall be located outside the isolation zone.
(5) Isolation zones and clear areas between barriers shall be provided with illumination sufficient for the monitoring required by paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section, but not less than 0.2 foot candles.
(c)
Access requirements.
The licensee shall control all points of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area, including shipping or receiving areas, and into each vital area. Identification of personnel and vehicles shall be made and authorization shall be checked at such points.
(1) At the point of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area, all individuals, except employees who possess a NRC or United States Department of Energy access authorization, and all hand-carried packages shall be searched for devices such as firearms, explosives, and incendiary devices, or other items which could be used for radiological sabotage. The search shall be conducted either by a physical search or by the use of equipment capable of detecting such devices. Employees who possess an NRC or Department of Energy access authorization shall be searched at random intervals. Subsequent to search, drivers of delivery and service vehicles shall be escorted at all times while within the protection area.
(2) All packages being delivered into the protected area shall be checked for proper identification and authorization. Packages other than hand-carried packages shall be searched at random intervals.
(3) A picture badge identification system shall be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escort.
(4) Access to vital areas and material access areas shall be limited to individuals who are authorized access to vital equipment or special nuclear material and who require such access to perform their duties. Authorization for such individuals shall be provided by the issuance of specially coded numbered badges indicating vital areas and material access areas to which access is authorized. Unoccupied vital areas and material access areas shall be protected by an active intrusion alarm system.
(5) Individuals not employed by the licensee must be escorted by a watchman, or other individual designated by the licensee, while in a protected area and must be badged to indicate that an escort is required. In addition, the licensee shall require that each individual not employed by the licensee register his or her name, date, time, purpose of visit, employment affiliation, citizenship, name and badge number of the escort, and name of the individual to be visited. The licensee shall retain the register of information for three years after the last entry is made in the register. Except for a driver of a delivery or service vehicle, an individual not employed by the licensee who requires frequent and extended access to a protected area or a vital area need not be escorted if the individual is provided with a picture badge, which the individual must receive upon entrance into the protected area and return each time he or she leaves the protected area, that indicates—
(i) Nonemployee-no escort required,
(ii) Areas to which access is authorized, and
(iii) The period for which access has been authorized.
(6) No vehicles used primarily for the conveyance of individuals shall be permitted within a protected area except under emergency conditions.
(7) Keys, locks, combinations, and related equipment shall be controlled to minimize the possibility of compromise and promptly changed whenever there is evidence that they have been compromised. Upon termination of employment of any employee, keys, locks, combinations, and related equipment to which that employee had access shall be changed.
(d)
Detection aids.
(1) All alarms required pursuant to this part shall annunciate in a continuously manned central alarm station located within the protected area and in at least one other continuously manned station, not necessarily within the protected area, such that a single act cannot remove the capability of calling for assistance or otherwise responding to an alarm. All alarms shall be self-checking and tamper indicating. The annunciation of an alarm at the onsite central alarm station shall indicate the type of alarm (e.g., intrusion alarm, emergency exit alarm, etc.) and location. All intrusion alarms, emergency exit alarms, alarm systems, and line supervisory systems shall at minimum meet the performance and reliability levels indicated by GSA Interim Federal Specification W-A-00450 B (GSA-FSS). The GSA Interim Federal Specification has been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register. A copy of the material is available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738.
(2) All emergency exits in each protected area and each vital area shall be alarmed.
(e)
Communication requirements.
(1) Each guard or watchman on duty shall be capable of maintaining continuous communication with an individual in a continuously manned central alarm station within the protected area, who shall be capable of calling for assistance from other guards and watchmen and from local law enforcement authorities.
(2) The alarm stations required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall have conventional telephone service for communication with the law enforcement authorities as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3) To provide the capability of continuous communication, two-way radio voice communication shall be established in addition to conventional telephone service between local law enforcement authorities and the facility and shall terminate at the facility in a continuously manned central alarm station within the protected area.
(4) All communications equipment, including offsite equipment, shall remain operable from independent power sources in the event of loss of primary power.
(f)
Testing and maintenance.
Each licensee shall test and maintain intrusion alarms, emergency alarms, communications equipment, physical barriers, and other security related devices or equipment utilized pursuant to this section as follows:
(1) All alarms, communications equipment, physical barriers, and other security related devices or equipment shall be maintained in operable and effective condition.
(2) Each intrusion alarm shall be functionally tested for operability and required performance at the beginning and end of each interval during which it is used for security, but not less frequently than once every seven (7) days.
(3) Communications equipment shall be tested for operability and performance not less frequently than once at the beginning of each security personnel work shift.
(g)
Response requirement.
(1) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow an NRC-approved safeguards contingency plan for responding to threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage related to the special nuclear material and nuclear facilities subject to the provisions of this section. Safeguards contingency plans must be in accordance with the criteria in appendix C to this part, “Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans.” The licensee shall retain the current safeguards contingency plan as a record until the Commission terminates the license and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain the superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of the change.
(2) The licensee shall establish and document liaison with law enforcement authorities. The licensee shall retain the documentation of the current liaison as a record until the Commission terminates each license for which the liaison was developed and, if any portion of the liaison documentation is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
(3) Upon detection of abnormal presence or activity of persons or vehicles within an isolation zone, a protected area, a material access area, or a vital
area; or upon evidence or indication of intrusion into a protected area, material access area, or vital area, the licensee security organization shall:
(i) Determine whether or not a threat exists,
(ii) Assess the extent of the threat, if any, and
(iii) Take immediate concurrent measures to neutralize the threat, by:
(A) Requiring responding guards to interpose themselves between material access areas and vital areas and any adversary attempting entry for the purpose of theft of special nuclear material or radiological sabotage and to intercept any person exiting with special nuclear material, and,
(B) Informing local law enforcement agencies of the threat and requesting assistance.
(4) The licensee shall instruct every guard to prevent or impede attempted acts of theft or radiological sabotage by using force sufficient to counter the force directed at him including deadly force when the guard has a reasonable belief it is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others.
(h) Each licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow an NRC-approved training and qualifications plan outlining the processes by which guards, watchmen, armed response persons, and other members of the security organization will be selected, trained, equipped, tested, and qualified to ensure that these individuals meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(Sec. 161i, Pub. L. 83-703, 68 Stat. 948, Pub. L. 93-377, 88 Stat. 475; secs. 201, 204(b)(1), Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1242-1243, 1245, Pub. L. 94-79, 89 Stat. 413 (42 U.S.C. 2201, 5841, 5844))
[38 FR 35430, Dec. 28, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 64103, Dec. 22, 1977; 43 FR 11965, Mar. 23, 1978; 43 FR 37426, Aug. 23, 1978; 44 FR 68198, Nov. 28, 1979; 53 FR 19259, May 27, 1988; 57 FR 33430, July 29, 1992; 57 FR 61787, Dec. 29, 1992; 59 FR 50689, Oct. 5, 1994; 63 FR 26962, May 15, 1998; 72 FR 49561, Aug. 28, 2007; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021; 88 FR 57879, Aug. 24, 2023]
§ 73.51
Requirements for the physical protection of stored spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.
(a)
Applicability.
Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 73.20, 73.50, or 73.67, the physical protection requirements of this section apply to each licensee that stores spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (2) of this section. This includes—
(1) Spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste stored under a specific license issued pursuant to part 72 of this chapter:
(i) At an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or
(ii) At a monitored retrievable storage (MRS) installation; or
(2) Spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste at a geologic repository operations area (GROA) licensed pursuant to part 60 or 63 of this chapter;
(b)
General performance objectives.
(1) Each licensee subject to this section shall establish and maintain a physical protection system with the objective of providing high assurance that activities involving spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste do not constitute an unreasonable risk to public health and safety.
(2) To meet the general objective of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each licensee subject to this section shall meet the following performance capabilities.
(i) Store spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste only within a protected area;
(ii) Grant access to the protected area only to individuals who are authorized to enter the protected area;
(iii) Detect and assess unauthorized penetration of, or activities within, the protected area;
(iv) Provide timely communication to a designated response force whenever necessary; and
(v) Manage the physical protection organization in a manner that maintains its effectiveness.
(3) The physical protection system must be designed to protect against loss of control of the facility that could be sufficient to cause a radiation exposure exceeding the dose as described in § 72.106 of this chapter.
(4)(i) The licensee must ensure that the firearms background check requirements of § 73.17 of this part are met for all members of the security organization whose official duties require
access to covered weapons or who inventory enhanced weapons.
(ii) The provisions of this paragraph are only applicable to licensees subject to this section who are also subject to the firearms background check provisions of § 73.17 of this part.
(c)
Plan retention.
Each licensee subject to this section shall retain a copy of the effective physical protection plan as a record for 3 years or until termination of the license for which procedures were developed.
(d)
Physical protection systems, components, and procedures.
A licensee shall comply with the following provisions as methods acceptable to NRC for meeting the performance capabilities of § 73.51(b)(2). The Commission may, on a specific basis and upon request or on its own initiative, authorize other alternative measures for the protection of spent fuel and high-level radioactive waste subject to the requirements of this section, if after evaluation of the specific alternative measures, it finds reasonable assurance of compliance with the performance capabilities of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste must be stored only within a protected area so that access to this material requires passage through or penetration of two physical barriers, one barrier at the perimeter of the protected area and one barrier offering substantial penetration resistance. The physical barrier at the perimeter of the protected area must be as defined in § 73.2. Isolation zones, typically 20 feet wide each, on both sides of this barrier, must be provided to facilitate assessment. The barrier offering substantial resistance to penetration may be provided by an approved storage cask or building walls such as those of a reactor or fuel storage building.
(2) Illumination must be sufficient to permit adequate assessment of unauthorized penetrations of or activities within the protected area.
(3) The perimeter of the protected area must be subject to continual surveillance and be protected by an active intrusion alarm system which is capable of detecting penetrations through the isolation zone and that is monitored in a continually staffed primary alarm station and in one additional continually staffed location. The primary alarm station must be located within the protected area; have bullet-resisting walls, doors, ceiling, and floor; and the interior of the station must not be visible from outside the protected area. A timely means for assessment of alarms must also be provided. Regarding alarm monitoring, the redundant location need only provide a summary indication that an alarm has been generated.
(4) The protected area must be monitored by daily random patrols.
(5) A security organization with written procedures must be established. The security organization must include sufficient personnel per shift to provide for monitoring of detection systems and the conduct of surveillance, assessment, access control, and communications to assure adequate response. Members of the security organization must be trained, equipped, qualified, and requalified to perform assigned job duties in accordance with appendix B to part 73, sections I.A, (1) (a) and (b), B(1)(a), and the applicable portions of II.
(6) Documented liaison with a designated response force or local law enforcement agency (LLEA) must be established to permit timely response to unauthorized penetration or activities.
(7) A personnel identification system and a controlled lock system must be established and maintained to limit access to authorized individuals.
(8) Redundant communications capability must be provided between onsite security force members and designated response force or LLEA.
(9) All individuals, vehicles, and hand-carried packages entering the protected area must be checked for proper authorization and visually searched for explosives before entry.
(10) Written response procedures must be established and maintained for addressing unauthorized penetration of, or activities within, the protected area including Category 5, “Procedures,” of appendix C to part 73. The licensee shall retain a copy of response procedures as a record for 3 years or until termination of the license for which the procedures were developed. Copies of superseded material must be
retained for 3 years after each change or until termination of the license.
(11) All detection systems and supporting subsystems must be tamper indicating with line supervision. These systems, as well as surveillance/assessment and illumination systems, must be maintained in operable condition. Timely compensatory measures must be taken after discovery of inoperability, to assure that the effectiveness of the of the security system is not reduced.
(12) The physical protection program must be reviewed once every 24 months by individuals independent of both physical protection program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the physical protection program. The physical protection program review must include an evaluation of the effectiveness of the physical protection system and a verification of the liaison established with the designated response force or LLEA.
(13) The following documentation must be retained as a record for 3 years after the record is made or until termination of the license. Duplicate records to those required under § 72.180 of part 72 and § 73.1210 of this part need not be retained under the requirements of this section:
(i) A log of individuals granted access to the protected area;
(ii) Screening records of members of the security organization;
(iii) A log of all patrols;
(iv) A record of each alarm received, identifying the type of alarm, location, date and time when received, and disposition of the alarm; and
(v) The physical protection program review reports.
(e)
GROA exemption.
A licensee that operates a GROA is exempt from the requirements of this section for that GROA after permanent closure of the GROA.
(f)
Response requirements.
Licensees must train each armed member of the security organization with access to enhanced weapons on the use of deadly force when the armed member of the security organization has a reasonable belief that the use of deadly force is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others, or any other circumstances as authorized by applicable State or Federal law.
[63 FR 26962, May 15, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 49414, Sept. 16, 1998; 66 FR 55816, Nov. 2, 2001; 88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 73.54
Protection of digital computer and communication systems and networks.
By November 23, 2009 each licensee currently licensed to operate a nuclear power plant under part 50 of this chapter shall submit, as specified in § 50.4 and § 50.90 of this chapter, a cyber security plan that satisfies the requirements of this section for Commission review and approval. Each submittal must include a proposed implementation schedule. Implementation of the licensee's cyber security program must be consistent with the approved schedule. Current applicants for an operating license or combined license who have submitted their applications to the Commission prior to the effective date of this rule must amend their applications to include a cyber security plan consistent with this section.
(a) Each licensee subject to the requirements of this section shall provide high assurance that digital computer and communication systems and networks are adequately protected against cyber attacks, up to and including the design basis threat as described in § 73.1.
(1) The licensee shall protect digital computer and communication systems and networks associated with:
(i) Safety-related and important-to-safety functions;
(ii) Security functions;
(iii) Emergency preparedness functions, including offsite communications; and
(iv) Support systems and equipment which, if compromised, would adversely impact safety, security, or emergency preparedness functions.
(2) The licensee shall protect the systems and networks identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from cyber attacks that would:
(i) Adversely impact the integrity or confidentiality of data and/or software;
(ii) Deny access to systems, services, and/or data; and
(iii) Adversely impact the operation of systems, networks, and associated equipment.
(b) To accomplish this, the licensee shall:
(1) Analyze digital computer and communication systems and networks and identify those assets that must be protected against cyber attacks to satisfy paragraph (a) of this section,
(2) Establish, implement, and maintain a cyber security program for the protection of the assets identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(3) Incorporate the cyber security program as a component of the physical protection program.
(c) The cyber security program must be designed to:
(1) Implement security controls to protect the assets identified by paragraph (b)(1) of this section from cyber attacks;
(2) Apply and maintain defense-in-depth protective strategies to ensure the capability to detect, respond to, and recover from cyber attacks;
(3) Mitigate the adverse affects of cyber attacks; and
(4) Ensure that the functions of protected assets identified by paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not adversely impacted due to cyber attacks.
(d) As part of the cyber security program, the licensee shall:
(1) Ensure that appropriate facility personnel, including contractors, are aware of cyber security requirements and receive the training necessary to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities.
(2) Evaluate and manage cyber risks.
(3) Ensure that modifications to assets, identified by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, are evaluated before implementation to ensure that the cyber security performance objectives identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are maintained.
(4) Conduct cyber security event notifications in accordance with the provisions of § 73.77.
(e) The licensee shall establish, implement, and maintain a cyber security plan that implements the cyber security program requirements of this section.
(1) The cyber security plan must describe how the requirements of this section will be implemented and must account for the site-specific conditions that affect implementation.
(2) The cyber security plan must include measures for incident response and recovery for cyber attacks. The cyber security plan must describe how the licensee will:
(i) Maintain the capability for timely detection and response to cyber attacks;
(ii) Mitigate the consequences of cyber attacks;
(iii) Correct exploited vulnerabilities; and
(iv) Restore affected systems, networks, and/or equipment affected by cyber attacks.
(f) The licensee shall develop and maintain written policies and implementing procedures to implement the cyber security plan. Policies, implementing procedures, site-specific analysis, and other supporting technical information used by the licensee need not be submitted for Commission review and approval as part of the cyber security plan but are subject to inspection by NRC staff on a periodic basis.
(g) The licensee shall review the cyber security program as a component of the physical security program in accordance with the requirements of § 73.55(m), including the periodicity requirements.
(h) The licensee shall retain all records and supporting technical documentation required to satisfy the requirements of this section as a record until the Commission terminates the license for which the records were developed, and shall maintain superseded portions of these records for at least three (3) years after the record is superseded, unless otherwise specified by the Commission.
[74 FR 13970, Mar. 27, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 67275, Nov. 2, 2015]
§ 73.55
Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.
(a)
Introduction.
(1) By March 31, 2010, each nuclear power reactor licensee, licensed under 10 CFR part 50, shall implement the requirements of this section through its Commission-approved Physical Security Plan, Training and
Qualification Plan, Safeguards Contingency Plan, and Cyber Security Plan referred to collectively hereafter as “security plans.” Current applicants for an operating license under 10 CFR part 50, or combined license under 10 CFR part 52 who have submitted their applications to the Commission prior to the effective date of this rule must amend their applications to include security plans consistent with this section.
(2) The security plans must identify, describe, and account for site-specific conditions that affect the licensee's capability to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(3) The licensee is responsible for maintaining the onsite physical protection program in accordance with Commission regulations through the implementation of security plans and written security implementing procedures.
(4) Applicants for an operating license under the provisions of part 50 of this chapter or holders of a combined license under the provisions of part 52 of this chapter, shall implement the requirements of this section before fuel is allowed onsite (protected area).
(5) The Tennessee Valley Authority Watts Bar Nuclear Plant, Unit 2, holding a current construction permit under the provisions of part 50 of this chapter, shall meet the revised requirements in paragraphs (a) through (r) of this section as applicable to operating nuclear power reactor facilities.
(6) Applicants for an operating license under the provisions of part 50 of this chapter, or holders of a combined license under the provisions of part 52 of this chapter that do not reference a standard design certification or reference a standard design certification issued after May 26, 2009 shall meet the requirement of § 73.55(i)(4)(iii).
(b)
General performance objective and requirements.
(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain a physical protection program, to include a security organization, which will have as its objective to provide high assurance that activities involving special nuclear material are not inimical to the common defense and security and do not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety.
(2) To satisfy the general performance objective of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the physical protection program must protect against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage as stated in § 73.1.
(3) The physical protection program must be designed to prevent significant core damage and spent fuel sabotage. Specifically, the program must:
(i) Ensure that the capabilities to detect, assess, interdict, and neutralize threats up to and including the design basis threat of radiological sabotage as stated in § 73.1, are maintained at all times.
(ii) Provide defense-in-depth through the integration of systems, technologies, programs, equipment, supporting processes, and implementing procedures as needed to ensure the effectiveness of the physical protection program.
(4) The licensee shall analyze and identify site-specific conditions, including target sets, that may affect the specific measures needed to implement the requirements of this section and shall account for these conditions in the design of the physical protection program.
(5) Upon the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the licensee shall demonstrate the ability to meet Commission requirements through the implementation of the physical protection program, including the ability of armed and unarmed personnel to perform assigned duties and responsibilities required by the security plans and licensee procedures.
(6) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a performance evaluation program in accordance with appendix B to this part, to demonstrate and assess the effectiveness of armed responders and armed security officers to implement the licensee's protective strategy.
(7) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement an access authorization program in accordance with § 73.56 and shall describe the program in the Physical Security Plan.
(8) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a cyber security program in accordance with § 73.54.
(9) The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement an insider mitigation program and shall describe the program in the Physical Security Plan.
(i) The insider mitigation program must monitor the initial and continuing trustworthiness and reliability of individuals granted or retaining unescorted access authorization to a protected or vital area, and implement defense-in-depth methodologies to minimize the potential for an insider to adversely affect, either directly or indirectly, the licensee's capability to prevent significant core damage and spent fuel sabotage.
(ii) The insider mitigation program must contain elements from:
(A) The access authorization program described in § 73.56;
(B) The fitness-for-duty program described in part 26 of this chapter;
(C) The cyber security program described in § 73.54; and
(D) The physical protection program described in this section.
(10) The licensee shall use the site corrective action program to track, trend, correct and prevent recurrence of failures and deficiencies in the physical protection program.
(11) Implementation of security plans and associated procedures must be coordinated with other onsite plans and procedures to preclude conflict during both normal and emergency conditions.
(12)(i) The licensee must ensure that the firearms background check requirements of § 73.17 of this part are met for all members of the security organization whose official duties require access to covered weapons or who inventory enhanced weapons.
(ii) The provisions of this paragraph are only applicable to licensees subject to this section that are also subject to the firearms background check provisions of § 73.17 of this part.
(c)
Security plans.
(1) Licensee security plans must describe:
(i) How the licensee will implement requirements of this section through the establishment and maintenance of a security organization, the use of security equipment and technology, the training and qualification of security personnel, the implementation of predetermined response plans and strategies, and the protection of digital computer and communication systems and networks.
(ii) Site-specific conditions that affect how the licensee implements Commission requirements.
(2)
Protection of security plans.
The licensee shall protect the security plans and other security-related information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements of § 73.21.
(3)
Physical Security Plan.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a Physical Security Plan which describes how the performance objective and requirements set forth in this section will be implemented.
(4)
Training and Qualification Plan.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement, and follow a Training and Qualification Plan that describes how the criteria set forth in appendix B, section VI, to this part, “Nuclear Power Reactor Training and Qualification Plan for Personnel Performing Security Program Duties,” will be implemented.
(5)
Safeguards Contingency Plan.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a Safeguards Contingency Plan that describes how the criteria set forth in appendix C, section II, to this part, “Nuclear Power Plant Safeguards Contingency Plans,” will be implemented.
(6)
Cyber Security Plan.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a Cyber Security Plan that describes how the criteria set forth in § 73.54 “Protection of Digital Computer and Communication systems and Networks” of this part will be implemented.
(7)
Security implementing procedures.
(i) The licensee shall have a management system to provide for the development, implementation, revision, and oversight of security procedures that implement Commission requirements and the security plans.
(ii) Implementing procedures must document the structure of the security organization and detail the types of duties, responsibilities, actions, and decisions to be performed or made by each position of the security organization.
(iii) The licensee shall:
(A) Provide a process for the written approval of implementing procedures
and revisions by the individual with overall responsibility for the security program.
(B) Ensure that revisions to security implementing procedures satisfy the requirements of this section.
(iv) Implementing procedures need not be submitted to the Commission for approval, but are subject to inspection by the Commission.
(d)
Security organization.
(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain a security organization that is designed, staffed, trained, qualified, and equipped to implement the physical protection program in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(2) The security organization must include:
(i) A management system that provides oversight of the onsite physical protection program.
(ii) At least one member, onsite and available at all times, who has the authority to direct the activities of the security organization and who is assigned no other duties that would interfere with this individual's ability to perform these duties in accordance with the security plans and the licensee protective strategy.
(3) The licensee may not permit any individual to implement any part of the physical protection program unless the individual has been trained, equipped, and qualified to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities in accordance with appendix B, section VI, to this part and the Training and Qualification Plan. Non-security personnel may be assigned duties and responsibilities required to implement the physical protection program and shall:
(i) Be trained through established licensee training programs to ensure each individual is trained, qualified, and periodically re-qualified to perform assigned duties.
(ii) Be properly equipped to perform assigned duties.
(iii) Possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities, to include physical attributes such as sight and hearing, required to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities.
(e)
Physical barriers.
Each licensee shall identify and analyze site-specific conditions to determine the specific use, type, function, and placement of physical barriers needed to satisfy the physical protection program design requirements of § 73.55(b).
(1) The licensee shall:
(i) Design, construct, install and maintain physical barriers as necessary to control access into facility areas for which access must be controlled or denied to satisfy the physical protection program design requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Describe in the physical security plan, physical barriers, barrier systems, and their functions within the physical protection program.
(2) The licensee shall retain, in accordance with § 73.70, all analyses and descriptions of the physical barriers and barrier systems used to satisfy the requirements of this section, and shall protect these records in accordance with the requirements of § 73.21.
(3) Physical barriers must:
(i) Be designed and constructed to:
(A) Protect against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage;
(B) Account for site-specific conditions; and
(C) Perform their required function in support of the licensee physical protection program.
(ii) Provide deterrence, delay, or support access control.
(iii) Support effective implementation of the licensee's protective strategy.
(4) Consistent with the stated function to be performed, openings in any barrier or barrier system established to meet the requirements of this section must be secured and monitored to prevent exploitation of the opening.
(5)
Bullet resisting physical barriers.
The reactor control room, the central alarm station, and the location within which the last access control function for access to the protected area is performed, must be bullet-resisting.
(6)
Owner controlled area.
The licensee shall establish and maintain physical barriers in the owner controlled area as needed to satisfy the physical protection program design requirements of § 73.55(b).
(7)
Isolation zone.
(i) An isolation zone must be maintained in outdoor areas
adjacent to the protected area perimeter barrier. The isolation zone shall be:
(A) Designed and of sufficient size to permit observation and assessment of activities on either side of the protected area barrier;
(B) Monitored with intrusion detection equipment designed to satisfy the requirements of § 73.55(i) and be capable of detecting both attempted and actual penetration of the protected area perimeter barrier before completed penetration of the protected area perimeter barrier; and
(C) Monitored with assessment equipment designed to satisfy the requirements of § 73.55(i) and provide real-time and play-back/recorded video images of the detected activities before and after each alarm annunciation.
(ii) Obstructions that could prevent the licensee's capability to meet the observation and assessment requirements of this section must be located outside of the isolation zone.
(8)
Protected area.
(i) The protected area perimeter must be protected by physical barriers that are designed and constructed to:
(A) Limit access into the protected area to only those personnel, vehicles, and materials required to perform official duties;
(B) Channel personnel, vehicles, and materials to designated access control portals; and
(C) Be separated from any other barrier designated as a vital area physical barrier, unless otherwise identified in the Physical Security Plan.
(ii) Penetrations through the protected area barrier must be secured and monitored in a manner that prevents or delays, and detects the exploitation of any penetration.
(iii) All emergency exits in the protected area must be alarmed and secured by locking devices that allow prompt egress during an emergency and satisfy the requirements of this section for access control into the protected area.
(iv) Where building walls or roofs comprise a portion of the protected area perimeter barrier, an isolation zone is not necessary provided that the detection and, assessment requirements of this section are met, appropriate barriers are installed, and the area is described in the security plans.
(v) All exterior areas within the protected area, except for areas that must be excluded for safety reasons, must be periodically checked to detect and deter unauthorized personnel, vehicles, and materials.
(9)
Vital areas.
(i) Vital equipment must be located only within vital areas, which must be located within a protected area so that access to vital equipment requires passage through at least two physical barriers, except as otherwise approved by the Commission and identified in the security plans.
(ii) The licensee shall protect all vital area access portals and vital area emergency exits with intrusion detection equipment and locking devices that allow rapid egress during an emergency and satisfy the vital area entry control requirements of this section.
(iii) Unoccupied vital areas must be locked and alarmed.
(iv) More than one vital area may be located within a single protected area.
(v) At a minimum, the following shall be considered vital areas:
(A) The reactor control room;
(B) The spent fuel pool;
(C) The central alarm station; and
(D) The secondary alarm station in accordance with § 73.55(i)(4)(iii).
(vi) At a minimum, the following shall be located within a vital area:
(A) The secondary power supply systems for alarm annunciation equipment; and
(B) The secondary power supply systems for non-portable communications equipment.
(10)
Vehicle control measures.
Consistent with the physical protection program design requirements of § 73.55(b), and in accordance with the site-specific analysis, the licensee shall establish and maintain vehicle control measures, as necessary, to protect against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage vehicle bomb assault.
(i)
Land vehicles.
Licensees shall:
(A) Design, construct, install, and maintain a vehicle barrier system, to include passive and active barriers, at a stand-off distance adequate to protect personnel, equipment, and systems necessary to prevent significant core damage and spent fuel sabotage against
the effects of the design basis threat of radiological sabotage land vehicle bomb assault.
(B) Periodically check the operation of active vehicle barriers and provide a secondary power source, or a means of mechanical or manual operation in the event of a power failure, to ensure that the active barrier can be placed in the denial position to prevent unauthorized vehicle access beyond the required standoff distance.
(C) Provide periodic surveillance and observation of vehicle barriers and barrier systems adequate to detect indications of tampering and degradation or to otherwise ensure that each vehicle barrier and barrier system is able to satisfy the intended function.
(D) Where a site has rail access to the protected area, install a train derailer, remove a section of track, or restrict access to railroad sidings and provide periodic surveillance of these measures.
(ii)
Waterborne vehicles.
Licensees shall:
(A) Identify areas from which a waterborne vehicle must be restricted, and where possible, in coordination with local, State, and Federal agencies having jurisdiction over waterway approaches, deploy buoys, markers, or other equipment.
(B) In accordance with the site-specific analysis, provide periodic surveillance and observation of waterway approaches and adjacent areas.
(f)
Target sets.
(1) The licensee shall document and maintain the process used to develop and identify target sets, to include the site-specific analyses and methodologies used to determine and group the target set equipment or elements.
(2) The licensee shall consider cyber attacks in the development and identification of target sets.
(3) Target set equipment or elements that are not contained within a protected or vital area must be identified and documented consistent with the requirements in § 73.55(f)(1) and be accounted for in the licensee's protective strategy.
(4) The licensee shall implement a process for the oversight of target set equipment and systems to ensure that changes to the configuration of the identified equipment and systems are considered in the licensee's protective strategy. Where appropriate, changes must be made to documented target sets.
(g)
Access controls.
(1) Consistent with the function of each barrier or barrier system, the licensee shall control personnel, vehicle, and material access, as applicable, at each access control point in accordance with the physical protection program design requirements of § 73.55(b).
(i) To accomplish this, the licensee shall:
(A) Locate access control portals outside of, or concurrent with, the physical barrier system through which it controls access.
(B) Equip access control portals with locking devices, intrusion detection equipment, and surveillance equipment consistent with the intended function.
(C) Provide supervision and control over the badging process to prevent unauthorized bypass of access control equipment located at or outside of the protected area.
(D) Limit unescorted access to the protected area and vital areas, during non-emergency conditions, to only those individuals who require unescorted access to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
(E) Assign an individual the responsibility for the last access control function (controlling admission to the protected area) and isolate the individual within a bullet-resisting structure to assure the ability of the individual to respond or summon assistance.
(ii) Where vehicle barriers are established, the licensee shall:
(A) Physically control vehicle barrier portals to ensure only authorized vehicles are granted access through the barrier.
(B) Search vehicles and materials for contraband or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(C) Observe search functions to ensure a response can be initiated if needed.
(2) Before granting access into the protected area, the licensee shall:
(i) Confirm the identity of individuals.
(ii) Verify the authorization for access of individuals, vehicles, and materials.
(iii) Confirm, in accordance with industry shared lists and databases that individuals are not currently denied access to another licensed facility.
(iv) Search individuals, vehicles, and materials in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Vehicles in the protected area.
(i) The licensee shall exercise control over all vehicles inside the protected area to ensure that they are used only by authorized persons and for authorized purposes.
(ii) Vehicles inside the protected area must be operated by an individual authorized unescorted access to the area, or must be escorted by an individual as required by paragraph (g)(8) of this section.
(iii) Vehicle use inside the protected area must be limited to plant functions or emergencies, and keys must be removed or the vehicle otherwise disabled when not in use.
(iv) Vehicles transporting hazardous materials inside the protected area must be escorted by an armed member of the security organization.
(4)
Vital areas.
(i) Licensees shall control access into vital areas consistent with access authorization lists.
(ii) In response to a site-specific credible threat or other credible information, implement a two-person (line-of-sight) rule for all personnel in vital areas so that no one individual is permitted access to a vital area.
(5)
Emergency conditions.
(i) The licensee shall design the access control system to accommodate the potential need for rapid ingress or egress of authorized individuals during emergency conditions or situations that could lead to emergency conditions.
(ii) To satisfy the design criteria of paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section during emergency conditions, the licensee shall implement security procedures to ensure that authorized emergency personnel are provided prompt access to affected areas and equipment.
(6)
Access control devices.
(i) The licensee shall control all keys, locks, combinations, passwords and related access control devices used to control access to protected areas, vital areas and security systems to reduce the probability of compromise. To accomplish this, the licensee shall:
(A) Issue access control devices only to individuals who have unescorted access authorization and require access to perform official duties and responsibilities.
(B) Maintain a record, to include name and affiliation, of all individuals to whom access control devices have been issued, and implement a process to account for access control devices at least annually.
(C) Implement compensatory measures upon discovery or suspicion that any access control device may have been compromised. Compensatory measures must remain in effect until the compromise is corrected.
(D) Retrieve, change, rotate, deactivate, or otherwise disable access control devices that have been or may have been compromised or when a person with access to control devices has been terminated under less than favorable conditions.
(ii) The licensee shall implement a numbered photo identification badge system for all individuals authorized unescorted access to the protected area and vital areas.
(A) Identification badges may be removed from the protected area only when measures are in place to confirm the true identity and authorization for unescorted access of the badge holder before allowing unescorted access to the protected area.
(B) Except where operational safety concerns require otherwise, identification badges must be clearly displayed by all individuals while inside the protected area and vital areas.
(C) The licensee shall maintain a record, to include the name and areas to which unescorted access is granted, of all individuals to whom photo identification badges have been issued.
(iii) Access authorization program personnel shall be issued passwords and combinations to perform their assigned duties and may be excepted from the requirement of paragraph (g)(6)(i)(A) of this section provided they meet the background requirements of § 73.56.
(7)
Visitors.
(i) The licensee may permit escorted access to protected and vital areas to individuals who have not
been granted unescorted access in accordance with the requirements of § 73.56 and part 26 of this chapter. The licensee shall:
(A) Implement procedures for processing, escorting, and controlling visitors.
(B) Confirm the identity of each visitor through physical presentation of a recognized identification card issued by a local, State, or Federal government agency that includes a photo or contains physical characteristics of the individual requesting escorted access.
(C) Maintain a visitor control register in which all visitors shall register their name, date, time, purpose of visit, employment affiliation, citizenship, and name of the individual to be visited before being escorted into any protected or vital area.
(D) Issue a visitor badge to all visitors that clearly indicates an escort is required.
(E) Escort all visitors, at all times, while inside the protected area and vital areas.
(F) Deny escorted access to any individual who is currently denied access in industry shared data bases.
(ii) Individuals not employed by the licensee but who require frequent or extended unescorted access to the protected area and/or vital areas to perform duties and responsibilities required by the licensee at irregular or intermittent intervals, shall satisfy the access authorization requirements of § 73.56 and part 26 of this chapter, and shall be issued a non-employee photo identification badge that is easily distinguished from other identification badges before being allowed unescorted access to the protected and vital areas. Non-employee photo identification badges must visually reflect that the individual is a non-employee and that no escort is required.
(8)
Escorts.
The licensee shall ensure that all escorts are trained to perform escort duties in accordance with the requirements of this section and site training requirements.
(i) Escorts shall be authorized unescorted access to all areas in which they will perform escort duties.
(ii) Individuals assigned to visitor escort duties shall be provided a means of timely communication with security personnel to summon assistance when needed.
(iii) Individuals assigned to vehicle escort duties shall be trained and qualified in accordance with appendix B, section VI, of this part and provided a means of continuous communication with security personnel to ensure the ability to summon assistance when needed.
(iv) When visitors are performing work, escorts shall be generally knowledgeable of the activities to be performed by the visitor and report behaviors or activities that may constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public and common defense and security, including a potential threat to commit radiological sabotage, consistent with § 73.56(f)(1).
(v) Each licensee shall describe visitor to escort ratios for the protected area and vital areas in physical security plans. Implementing procedures shall provide necessary observation and control requirements for all visitor activities.
(h)
Search programs.
(1) The objective of the search program is to detect, deter, and prevent the introduction of firearms, explosives, incendiary devices, or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage. To accomplish this the licensee shall search individuals, vehicles, and materials consistent with the physical protection program design requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and the function to be performed at each access control point or portal before granting access.
(2)
Owner controlled area searches.
(i) Where the licensee has established physical barriers in the owner controlled area, the licensee shall implement search procedures for access control points in the barrier.
(ii) For each vehicle access control point, the licensee shall describe in implementing procedures areas of a vehicle to be searched, and the items for which the search is intended to detect and prevent access. Areas of the vehicle to be searched must include, but are not limited to, the cab, engine compartment, undercarriage, and cargo area.
(iii) Vehicle searches must be performed by at least two (2) trained and
equipped security personnel, one of which must be armed. The armed individual shall be positioned to observe the search process and provide immediate response.
(iv) Vehicle searches must be accomplished through the use of equipment capable of detecting firearms, explosives, incendiary devices, or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage, or through visual and physical searches, or both, to ensure that all items are identified before granting access.
(v) Vehicle access control points must be equipped with video surveillance equipment that is monitored by an individual capable of initiating a response.
(3) Protected area searches. Licensees shall search all personnel, vehicles and materials requesting access to protected areas.
(i) The search for firearms, explosives, incendiary devices, or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage shall be accomplished through the use of equipment capable of detecting these items, or through visual and physical searches, or both, to ensure that all items are clearly identified before granting access to protected areas. The licensee shall subject all persons except official Federal, state, and local law enforcement personnel on official duty to these searches upon entry to the protected area. Armed security officers who are on duty and have exited the protected area may re-enter the protected area without being searched for firearms.
(ii) Whenever search equipment is out of service, is not operating satisfactorily, or cannot be used effectively to search individuals, vehicles, or materials, a visual and physical search shall be conducted.
(iii) When an attempt to introduce firearms, explosives, incendiary devices, or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage has occurred or is suspected, the licensee shall implement actions to ensure that the suspect individuals, vehicles, and materials are denied access and shall perform a visual and physical search to determine the absence or existence of a threat.
(iv) For each vehicle access portal, the licensee shall describe in implementing procedures areas of a vehicle to be searched before access is granted. Areas of the vehicle to be searched must include, but are not limited to, the cab, engine compartment, undercarriage, and cargo area.
(v) Exceptions to the protected area search requirements for materials may be granted for safety or operational reasons provided the design criteria of § 73.55(b) are satisfied, the materials are clearly identified, the types of exceptions to be granted are described in the security plans, and the specific security measures to be implemented for excepted items are detailed in site procedures.
(vi) To the extent practicable, excepted materials must be positively controlled, stored in a locked area, and opened at the final destination by an individual familiar with the items.
(vii) Bulk material excepted from the protected area search requirements must be escorted by an armed member of the security organization to its final destination or to a receiving area where the excepted items are offloaded and verified.
(viii) To the extent practicable, bulk materials excepted from search shall not be offloaded adjacent to a vital area.
(i)
Detection and assessment systems.
(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain intrusion detection and assessment systems that satisfy the design requirements of § 73.55(b) and provide, at all times, the capability to detect and assess unauthorized persons and facilitate the effective implementation of the licensee's protective strategy.
(2) Intrusion detection equipment must annunciate and video assessment equipment shall display concurrently, in at least two continuously staffed onsite alarm stations, at least one of which must be protected in accordance with the requirements of the central alarm station within this section.
(3) The licensee's intrusion detection and assessment systems must be designed to:
(i) Provide visual and audible annunciation of the alarm.
(ii) Provide a visual display from which assessment of the detected activity can be made.
(iii) Ensure that annunciation of an alarm indicates the type and location of the alarm.
(iv) Ensure that alarm devices to include transmission lines to annunciators are tamper indicating and self-checking.
(v) Provide an automatic indication when the alarm system or a component of the alarm system fails, or when the system is operating on the backup power supply.
(vi) Support the initiation of a timely response in accordance with the security plans, licensee protective strategy, and associated implementing procedures.
(vii) Ensure intrusion detection and assessment equipment at the protected area perimeter remains operable from an uninterruptible power supply in the event of the loss of normal power.
(4)
Alarm stations.
(i) Both alarm stations required by paragraph (i)(2) of this section must be designed and equipped to ensure that a single act, in accordance with the design basis threat of radiological sabotage defined in § 73.1(a)(1), cannot disable both alarm stations. The licensee shall ensure the survivability of at least one alarm station to maintain the ability to perform the following functions:
(A) Detect and assess alarms;
(B) Initiate and coordinate an adequate response to an alarm;
(C) Summon offsite assistance; and
(D) Provide command and control.
(ii) Licensees shall:
(A) Locate the central alarm station inside a protected area. The interior of the central alarm station must not be visible from the perimeter of the protected area.
(B) Continuously staff each alarm station with at least one trained and qualified alarm station operator. The alarm station operator must not be assigned other duties or responsibilities which would interfere with the ability to execute the functions described in § 73.55(i)(4)(i) of this section.
(C) Not permit any activities to be performed within either alarm station that would interfere with an alarm station operator's ability to execute assigned duties and responsibilities.
(D) Assess and initiate response to all alarms in accordance with the security plans and implementing procedures.
(E) Assess and initiate response to other events as appropriate.
(F) Ensure that an alarm station operator cannot change the status of a detection point or deactivate a locking or access control device at a protected or vital area portal, without the knowledge and concurrence of the alarm station operator in the other alarm station.
(G) Ensure that operators in both alarm stations are knowledgeable of the final disposition of all alarms.
(H) Maintain a record of all alarm annunciations, the cause of each alarm, and the disposition of each alarm.
(iii) Applicants for an operating license under the provisions of part 50 of this chapter, or holders of a combined license under the provisions of part 52 of this chapter, shall construct, locate, protect, and equip both the central and secondary alarm stations to the standards for the central alarm station contained in this section. Both alarm stations shall be equal and redundant, such that all functions needed to satisfy the requirements of this section can be performed in both alarm stations.
(5)
Surveillance, observation, and monitoring.
(i) The physical protection program must include surveillance, observation, and monitoring as needed to satisfy the design requirements of § 73.55(b), identify indications of tampering, or otherwise implement the site protective strategy.
(ii) The licensee shall provide continuous surveillance, observation, and monitoring of the owner controlled area as described in the security plans to detect and deter intruders and ensure the integrity of physical barriers or other components and functions of the onsite physical protection program. Continuous surveillance, observation, and monitoring responsibilities may be performed by security personnel during continuous patrols, through use of video technology, or by a combination of both.
(iii) Unattended openings that intersect a security boundary such as underground pathways must be protected by a physical barrier and monitored by intrusion detection equipment or observed by security personnel at a frequency sufficient to detect exploitation.
(iv) Armed security patrols shall periodically check external areas of the protected area to include physical barriers and vital area portals.
(v) Armed security patrols shall periodically inspect vital areas to include the physical barriers used at all vital area portals.
(vi) The licensee shall provide random patrols of all accessible areas containing target set equipment.
(vii) Security personnel shall be trained to recognize obvious indications of tampering consistent with their assigned duties and responsibilities.
(viii) Upon detection of tampering, or other threats, the licensee shall initiate response in accordance with the security plans and implementing procedures.
(6)
Illumination.
(i) The licensee shall ensure that all areas of the facility are provided with illumination necessary to satisfy the design requirements of § 73.55(b) and implement the protective strategy.
(ii) The licensee shall provide a minimum illumination level of 0.2 foot-candles, measured horizontally at ground level, in the isolation zones and appropriate exterior areas within the protected area. Alternatively, the licensee may augment the facility illumination system by means of low-light technology to meet the requirements of this section or otherwise implement the protective strategy.
(iii) The licensee shall describe in the security plans how the lighting requirements of this section are met and, if used, the type(s) and application of low-light technology.
(j)
Communication requirements.
(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain continuous communication capability with onsite and offsite resources to ensure effective command and control during both normal and emergency situations.
(2) Individuals assigned to each alarm station shall be capable of calling for assistance in accordance with the security plans and the licensee's procedures.
(3) All on-duty security force personnel shall be capable of maintaining continuous communication with an individual in each alarm station, and vehicle escorts shall maintain continuous communication with security personnel. All personnel escorts shall maintain timely communication with the security personnel.
(4) The following continuous communication capabilities must terminate in both alarm stations required by this section:
(i) Radio or microwave transmitted two-way voice communication, either directly or through an intermediary, in addition to conventional telephone service between local law enforcement authorities and the site.
(ii) A system for communication with the control room.
(5) Non-portable communications equipment must remain operable from independent power sources in the event of the loss of normal power.
(6) The licensee shall identify site areas where communication could be interrupted or cannot be maintained, and shall establish alternative communication measures or otherwise account for these areas in implementing procedures.
(k)
Response requirements.
(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain, at all times, properly trained, qualified and equipped personnel required to interdict and neutralize threats up to and including the design basis threat of radiological sabotage as defined in § 73.1, to prevent significant core damage and spent fuel sabotage.
(2) The licensee shall ensure that all firearms, ammunition, and equipment necessary to implement the site security plans and protective strategy are in sufficient supply, are in working condition, and are readily available for use.
(3) The licensee shall train each armed member of the security organization to prevent or impede attempted acts of radiological sabotage by using force sufficient to counter the force directed at that person, including the use
of deadly force when the armed member of the security organization has a reasonable belief that the use of deadly force is necessary in self-defense or in the defense of others, or any other circumstances as authorized by applicable State or Federal law.
(4) The licensee shall provide armed response personnel consisting of armed responders which may be augmented with armed security officers to carry out armed response duties within predetermined time lines specified by the site protective strategy.
(5)
Armed responders.
(i) The licensee shall determine the minimum number of armed responders necessary to satisfy the design requirements of § 73.55(b) and implement the protective strategy. The licensee shall document this number in the security plans.
(ii) The number of armed responders shall not be less than ten (10).
(iii) Armed responders shall be available at all times inside the protected area and may not be assigned other duties or responsibilities that could interfere with their assigned response duties.
(6)
Armed security officers.
(i) Armed security officers, designated to strengthen onsite response capabilities, shall be onsite and available at all times to carry out their assigned response duties.
(ii) The minimum number of armed security officers designated to strengthen onsite response capabilities must be documented in the security plans.
(7) The licensee shall have procedures to reconstitute the documented number of available armed response personnel required to implement the protective strategy.
(8)
Protective strategy.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and implement a written protective strategy in accordance with the requirements of this section and part 73, appendix C, Section II. Upon receipt of an alarm or other indication of a threat, the licensee shall:
(i) Determine the existence and level of a threat in accordance with pre-established assessment methodologies and procedures.
(ii) Initiate response actions to interdict and neutralize threats in accordance with the requirements of part 73, appendix C, section II, the safeguards contingency plan, and the licensee's response strategy.
(iii) Notify law enforcement agencies (local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies (LLEA)), in accordance with site procedures.
(9)
Law enforcement liaison.
To the extent practicable, licensees shall document and maintain current agreements with applicable law enforcement agencies to include estimated response times and capabilities.
(10)
Heightened security.
Licensees shall establish, maintain, and implement a threat warning system which identifies specific graduated protective measures and actions to be taken to increase licensee preparedness against a heightened security threat.
(i) Licensees shall ensure that the specific protective measures and actions identified for each threat level are consistent with the security plans and other emergency plans and procedures.
(ii) Upon notification by an authorized representative of the Commission, licensees shall implement the specific threat level indicated by the Commission representative.
(l)
Facilities using mixed-oxide (MOX) fuel assemblies containing up to 20 weight percent plutonium dioxide (PuO
2
). (1) Commercial nuclear power reactors licensed under 10 CFR parts 50 or 52 and authorized to use special nuclear material in the form of MOX fuel assemblies containing up to 20 weight percent PuO
2
shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of this section, protect un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies against theft or diversion as described in this paragraph.
(2) Commercial nuclear power reactors authorized to use MOX fuel assemblies containing up to 20 weight percent PuO
2
are exempt from the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.45, and 73.46 for the onsite physical protection of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies.
(3)
Administrative controls.
(i) The licensee shall describe in the security plans the operational and administrative controls to be implemented for the receipt, inspection, movement, storage, and protection of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies.
(ii) The licensee shall implement the use of tamper-indicating devices for un-irradiated MOX fuel assembly transport and shall verify their use and integrity before receipt.
(iii) Upon receipt of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies, the licensee shall:
(A) Inspect un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies for damage.
(B) Search un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies for unauthorized materials.
(iv) The licensee may conduct the required inspection and search functions simultaneously.
(v) The licensee shall ensure the proper placement and control of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies as follows:
(A) At least one armed security officer shall be present during the receipt and inspection of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies. This armed security officer shall not be an armed responder as required by paragraph (k) of this section.
(B) The licensee shall store un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies only within a spent fuel pool, located within a vital area, so that access to the un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies requires passage through at least two physical barriers and the water barrier combined with the additional measures detailed in this section.
(vi) The licensee shall implement a material control and accountability program that includes a predetermined and documented storage location for each un-irradiated MOX fuel assembly.
(4)
Physical controls.
(i) The licensee shall lock, lockout, or disable all equipment and power supplies to equipment required for the movement and handling of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies when movement activities are not authorized.
(ii) The licensee shall implement a two-person, line-of-sight rule within the spent fuel pool area whenever control systems or equipment required for the movement or handling of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies must be accessed.
(iii) The licensee shall conduct random patrols of areas containing un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies to identify indications of tampering and ensure the integrity of barriers and locks.
(iv) Locks, keys, and any other access control device used to secure equipment and power sources required for the movement of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies, or openings to areas containing un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies, must be controlled by the security organization.
(v) Removal of locks used to secure equipment and power sources required for the movement of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies or openings to areas containing un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies must require approval by both the on-duty security shift supervisor and the operations shift manager.
(A) At least one armed security officer shall be present to observe activities involving the movement of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies before the removal of the locks and providing power to equipment required for the movement or handling of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies.
(B) At least one armed security officer shall be present at all times until power is removed from equipment and locks are secured.
(C) Security officers shall be knowledgeable of authorized and unauthorized activities involving un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies.
(5) At least one armed security officer shall be present and shall maintain constant surveillance of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies when the assemblies are not located in the spent fuel pool or reactor.
(6) The licensee shall maintain at all times the capability to detect, assess, interdict and neutralize threats to un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(7)
MOX fuel assemblies containing greater than 20 weight percent
PuO
2
. (i) Requests for the use of MOX fuel assemblies containing greater than 20 weight percent PuO
2
shall be reviewed and approved by the Commission before receipt of MOX fuel assemblies.
(ii) Additional measures for the physical protection of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies containing greater than 20 weight percent PuO
2
shall be determined by the Commission on a case-by-
case basis and documented through license amendment in accordance with 10 CFR 50.90.
(m)
Security program reviews.
(1) As a minimum the licensee shall review each element of the physical protection program at least every 24 months. Reviews shall be conducted:
(i) Within 12 months following initial implementation of the physical protection program or a change to personnel, procedures, equipment, or facilities that potentially could adversely affect security.
(ii) As necessary based upon site-specific analyses, assessments, or other performance indicators.
(iii) By individuals independent of those personnel responsible for program management and any individual who has direct responsibility for implementing the onsite physical protection program.
(2) Reviews of the security program must include, but not limited to, an audit of the effectiveness of the physical security program, security plans, implementing procedures, cyber security programs, safety/security interface activities, the testing, maintenance, and calibration program, and response commitments by local, State, and Federal law enforcement authorities.
(3) The results and recommendations of the onsite physical protection program reviews, management's findings regarding program effectiveness, and any actions taken as a result of recommendations from prior program reviews, must be documented in a report to the licensee's plant manager and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for day-to-day plant operations. These reports must be maintained in an auditable form and available for inspection.
(4) Findings from onsite physical protection program reviews must be entered into the site corrective action program.
(n)
Maintenance, testing, and calibration.
(1) The licensee shall:
(i) Establish, maintain, and implement a maintenance, testing and calibration program to ensure that security systems and equipment, including secondary and uninterruptible power supplies, are tested for operability and performance at predetermined intervals, maintained in operable condition, and are capable of performing their intended functions.
(ii) Describe the maintenance, testing and calibration program in the physical security plan. Implementing procedures must specify operational and technical details required to perform maintenance, testing, and calibration activities to include, but not limited to, purpose of activity, actions to be taken, acceptance criteria, and the intervals or frequency at which the activity will be performed.
(iii) Identify in procedures the criteria for determining when problems, failures, deficiencies, and other findings are documented in the site corrective action program for resolution.
(iv) Ensure that information documented in the site corrective action program is written in a manner that does not constitute safeguards information as defined in 10 CFR 73.21.
(v) Implement compensatory measures that ensure the effectiveness of the onsite physical protection program when there is a failure or degraded operation of security-related components or equipment.
(2) The licensee shall test each intrusion alarm for operability at the beginning and end of any period that it is used for security, or if the period of continuous use exceeds seven (7) days. The intrusion alarm must be tested at least once every seven (7) days.
(3) Intrusion detection and access control equipment must be performance tested in accordance with the security plans and implementing procedures.
(4) Equipment required for communications onsite must be tested for operability not less frequently than once at the beginning of each security personnel work shift.
(5) Communication systems between the alarm stations and each control room, and between the alarm stations and local law enforcement agencies, to include backup communication equipment, must be tested for operability at least once each day.
(6) Search equipment must be tested for operability at least once each day and tested for performance at least once during each seven (7) day period.
(7) A program for testing or verifying the operability of devices or equipment located in hazardous areas must be specified in the implementing procedures and must define alternate measures to be taken to ensure the timely completion of testing or maintenance when the hazardous condition or other restrictions are no longer applicable.
(8) Security equipment or systems shall be tested in accordance with the site maintenance, testing and calibration procedures before being placed back in service after each repair or inoperable state.
(o)
Compensatory measures.
(1) The licensee shall identify criteria and measures to compensate for degraded or inoperable equipment, systems, and components to meet the requirements of this section.
(2) Compensatory measures must provide a level of protection that is equivalent to the protection that was provided by the degraded or inoperable, equipment, system, or components.
(3) Compensatory measures must be implemented within specific time frames necessary to meet the requirements stated in paragraph (b) of this section and described in the security plans.
(p)
Suspension of security measures.
(1) The licensee may suspend implementation of affected requirements of this section under the following conditions:
(i) In accordance with §§ 50.54(x) and 50.54(y) of this chapter, the licensee may suspend any security measures under this section in an emergency when this action is immediately needed to protect the public health and safety and no action consistent with license conditions and technical specifications that can provide adequate or equivalent protection is immediately apparent. This suspension of security measures must be approved as a minimum by a licensed senior operator before taking this action.
(ii) During severe weather when the suspension of affected security measures is immediately needed to protect the personal health and safety of security force personnel and no other immediately apparent action consistent with the license conditions and technical specifications can provide adequate or equivalent protection. This suspension of security measures must be approved, as a minimum, by a licensed senior operator, with input from the security supervisor or manager, before taking this action.
(2) Suspended security measures must be reinstated as soon as conditions permit.
(3) The suspension of security measures must be reported and documented in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205 of this part.
(q)
Records.
(1) The Commission may inspect, copy, retain, and remove all reports, records, and documents required to be kept by Commission regulations, orders, or license conditions, whether the reports, records, and documents are kept by the licensee or a contractor.
(2) The licensee shall maintain all records required to be kept by Commission regulations, orders, or license conditions, until the Commission terminates the license for which the records were developed, and shall maintain superseded portions of these records for at least three (3) years after the record is superseded, unless otherwise specified by the Commission.
(3) If a contracted security force is used to implement the onsite physical protection program, the licensee's written agreement with the contractor must be retained by the licensee as a record for the duration of the contract.
(4) Review and audit reports must be maintained and available for inspection, for a period of three (3) years.
(r)
Alternative measures.
(1) The Commission may authorize an applicant or licensee to provide a measure for protection against radiological sabotage other than one required by this section if the applicant or licensee demonstrates that:
(i) The measure meets the same performance objectives and requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) The proposed alternative measure provides protection against radiological sabotage or theft of un-irradiated MOX fuel assemblies, equivalent to that which would be provided by the specific requirement for which it would substitute.
(2) The licensee shall submit proposed alternative measure(s) to the
Commission for review and approval in accordance with §§ 50.4 and 50.90 of this chapter before implementation.
(3) In addition to fully describing the desired changes, the licensee shall submit a technical basis for each proposed alternative measure. The basis must include an analysis or assessment that demonstrates how the proposed alternative measure provides a level of protection that is at least equal to that which would otherwise be provided by the specific requirement of this section.
(4) Alternative vehicle barrier systems. In the case of vehicle barrier systems required by § 73.55(e)(10), the licensee shall demonstrate that:
(i) The alternative measure provides protection against the use of a vehicle as a means of transportation to gain proximity to vital areas;
(ii) The alternative measure provides protection against the use of a vehicle as a vehicle bomb; and
(iii) Based on comparison of the costs of the alternative measures to the costs of meeting the Commission's requirements using the essential elements of 10 CFR 50.109, the costs of fully meeting the Commission's requirements are not justified by the protection that would be provided.
[74 FR 13971, Mar. 27, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 39909, July 6, 2012; 88 FR 15891, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Subpart G—Access Authorization and Access Control Requirements for the Physical Protection of Special Nuclear Material

# Source:
88 FR 15891, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.56
Personnel access authorization requirements for nuclear power plants.
(a)
Introduction.
(1) By March 31, 2010, each nuclear power reactor licensee, licensed under 10 CFR part 50, shall implement the requirements of this section through revisions to its Commission-approved Physical Security Plan.
(2) The licensee shall establish, implement and maintain its access authorization program in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(3) Each applicant for an operating license under the provisions of part 50 of this chapter, and each holder of a combined license under the provisions of part 52 of this chapter, shall implement the requirements of this section before fuel is allowed on site (protected area).
(4) The licensee or applicant may accept, in part or whole, an access authorization program implemented by a contractor or vendor to satisfy appropriate elements of the licensee's access authorization program in accordance with the requirements of this section. Only a licensee shall grant an individual unescorted access. Licensees and applicants shall certify individuals' unescorted access authorization and are responsible to maintain, deny, terminate, or withdraw unescorted access authorization.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) The following individuals shall be subject to an access authorization program:
(i) Any individual to whom a licensee intends to grant unescorted access to nuclear power plant protected or vital areas or any individual for whom a licensee or an applicant intends to certify unescorted access authorization;
(ii) Any individual whose duties and responsibilities permit the individual to take actions by electronic means, either on site or remotely, that could adversely impact the licensee's or applicant's operational safety, security, or emergency preparedness;
(iii) Any individual who has responsibilities for implementing a licensee's or applicant's protective strategy, including, but not limited to, armed security force officers, alarm station operators, and tactical response team leaders; and
(iv) The licensee or applicant access authorization program reviewing official or contractor or vendor access authorization program reviewers.
(2) Other individuals, at the licensee's or applicant's discretion, including employees of a contractor or a vendor who are designated in access authorization program procedures, are subject to an access authorization program that meets the requirements of this section.
(c)
General performance objective.
The licensee's or applicant's access authorization program must provide high assurance that the individuals who are specified in paragraph (b)(1), and, if applicable, paragraph (b)(2) of this section are trustworthy and reliable, such that they do not constitute an unreasonable risk to public health and safety or the common defense and security, including the potential to commit radiological sabotage.
(d)
Background investigation.
In order to grant an individual unescorted access to the protected area or vital area of a nuclear power plant or certify an individual unescorted access authorization, licensees, applicants and contractors or vendors shall ensure that the individual has been subject to a background investigation. The background investigation must include, but is not limited to, the following elements:
(1)
Informed consent.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall not initiate any element of a background investigation without the informed and signed consent of the subject individual. This consent shall include authorization to share personal information with appropriate entities. The licensee or applicant to whom the individual is applying for unescorted access and unescorted access authorization, respectively, or the contractors or vendors supporting the licensee or applicant shall inform the individual of his or her right to review information collected to assure its accuracy, and provide the individual with an opportunity to correct any inaccurate or incomplete information that is developed by licensees, applicants, or contractors or vendors about the individual.
(i) The subject individual may withdraw his or her consent at any time. Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall inform the individual that:
(A) Withdrawal of his or her consent will remove the individual's application for access authorization under the licensee's or applicant's access authorization program or contractor or vendor access authorization program; and
(B) Other licensees and applicants shall have access to information documenting the withdrawal. Additionally, the contractors or vendors may have the same access to the information, if such information is necessary for assisting licensees or applicants complying with requirements set forth in this section.
(ii) If an individual withdraws his or her consent, licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors may not initiate any elements of the background investigation that were not in progress at the time the individual withdrew his or her consent, but shall complete any background investigation elements that are in progress at the time consent is withdrawn. The licensee or applicant shall record the status of the individual's application for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, respectively. Contractors or vendors may record the status of the individual's application for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization for licensees or applicants. Additionally, licensees, applicants, or contractors or vendors shall collect and maintain the individual's application for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization; his or her withdrawal of consent for the background investigation; the reason given by the individual for the withdrawal; and any pertinent information collected from the background investigation elements that were completed. This information must be shared with other licensees in accordance with paragraph (o)(6) of this section.
(iii) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall inform, in writing, any individual who is applying for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization that the following actions are sufficient cause for denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status:
(A) Refusal to provide a signed consent for the background investigation;
(B) Refusal to provide, or the falsification of, any personal history information required under this section, including the failure to report any previous denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization;
(C) Refusal to provide signed consent for the sharing of personal information with other licensees, applicants, or the
contractor or vendors under paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section; or
(D) Failure to report any arrests or legal actions specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(2)
Personal history disclosure.
(i) Any individual who is applying for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization shall disclose the personal history information that is required by the licensee's or applicant's access authorization program, including any information that may be necessary for the reviewing official to make a determination of the individual's trustworthiness and reliability.
(ii) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall not require an individual to disclose an administrative withdrawal of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization under the requirements of § 73.56(g), (h)(7), or (i)(1)(v) of this section. However, the individual must disclose this information if the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization is administratively withdrawn at the time he or she is seeking unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, or the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization was subsequently denied or terminated unfavorably by a licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor.
(3)
Verification of true identity.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall verify the true identity of an individual who is applying for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization in order to ensure that the applicant is the person that he or she has claimed to be. At a minimum, licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall validate that the social security number that the individual has provided is his or hers, and, in the case of foreign nationals, validate the claimed non-immigration status that the individual has provided is correct. In addition, licensees and applicants shall also determine whether the results of the fingerprinting required under § 73.57 confirm the individual's claimed identity, if such results are available.
(4)
Employment history evaluation.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall ensure that an employment history evaluation has been completed on a best effort basis, by questioning the individual's present and former employers, and by determining the activities of the individual while unemployed.
(i) For the claimed employment period, the individual must provide the reason for any termination, eligibility for rehire, and other information that could reflect on the individual's trustworthiness and reliability.
(ii) If the claimed employment was military service the individual shall provide a characterization of service, reason for separation, and any disciplinary actions that could affect a trustworthiness and reliability determination.
(iii) If education is claimed in lieu of employment, the individual shall provide any information related to the claimed education that could reflect on the individual's trustworthiness and reliability and, at a minimum, verify that the individual was registered for the classes and received grades that indicate that the individual participated in the educational process during the claimed period.
(iv) If a previous employer, educational institution, or any other entity with which the individual claims to have been engaged fails to provide information or indicates an inability or unwillingness to provide information within 3 business days of the request, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall:
(A) Document this refusal or unwillingness in the licensee's, applicant's, or contractor's or vendor's record of the investigation; and
(B) Obtain a confirmation of employment, educational enrollment and attendance, or other form of engagement claimed by the individual from at least one alternate source that has not been previously used.
(v) When any licensee, applicant, contractor, or vendor is seeking the information required for an unescorted access or unescorted access authorization decision under this section and has obtained a signed release from the subject individual authorizing the disclosure of such information, other licensees, applicants, contractors and
vendors shall make available the personal or access authorization information requested regarding the denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
(vi) In conducting an employment history evaluation, the licensee, applicant, contractor, or vendor may obtain information and documents by electronic means, including, but not limited to, telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. Licensees, applicants, contractors, or vendors shall make a record of the contents of the telephone call and shall retain that record, and any documents or electronic files obtained electronically, in accordance with paragraph (o) of this section.
(5)
Credit history evaluation.
Licensees, applicants, contractors and vendors shall ensure that the full credit history of any individual who is applying for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization is evaluated. A full credit history evaluation must include, but is not limited to, an inquiry to detect potential fraud or misuse of social security numbers or other financial identifiers, and a review and evaluation of all of the information that is provided by a national credit-reporting agency about the individual's credit history. For individuals including foreign nationals and United States citizens who have resided outside the United States and do not have established credit history that covers at least the most recent seven years in the United States, the licensee, applicant, contractor or vendor must document all attempts to obtain information regarding the individual's credit history and financial responsibility from some relevant entity located in that other country or countries.
(6)
Character and reputation evaluation.
Licensees, applicants, contractors, and vendors shall ascertain the character and reputation of an individual who has applied for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization by conducting reference checks. Reference checks may not be conducted with any person who is known to be a close member of the individual's family, including but not limited to, the individual's spouse, parents, siblings, or children, or any individual who resides in the individual's permanent household. The reference checks must focus on the individual's reputation for trustworthiness and reliability.
(7)
Criminal history review.
The licensee's or applicant's reviewing official shall evaluate the entire criminal history record of an individual who is applying for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization to determine whether the individual has a record of criminal activity that may adversely impact his or her trustworthiness and reliability. A criminal history record must be obtained in accordance with the requirements of § 73.57. For individuals who do not have or are not expected to have unescorted access, a criminal history record of the individual shall be obtained in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Psychological assessment.
In order to assist in determining an individual's trustworthiness and reliability, licensees, applicants, contractors or vendors shall ensure that a psychological assessment has been completed before the individual is granted unescorted access or certified unescorted access authorization. Individuals who are applying for initial unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, or who have not maintained unescorted access or unescorted access authorization for greater than 365 days, shall be subject to a psychological assessment. The psychological assessment must be designed to evaluate the possible adverse impact of any noted psychological characteristics on the individual's trustworthiness and reliability.
(1) A licensed psychologist or psychiatrist with the appropriate training and experience shall conduct the psychological assessment.
(2) The psychological assessment must be conducted in accordance with the applicable ethical principles for conducting such assessments established by the American Psychological Association or American Psychiatric Association.
(3) At a minimum, the psychological assessment must include the administration and interpretation of a standardized, objective, professionally-accepted psychological test that provides information to identify indications of
disturbances in personality or psychopathology that may have adverse implications for an individual's trustworthiness and reliability. A psychiatrist or psychologist specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall establish the predetermined thresholds for each scale, in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, that must be applied in interpreting the results of the psychological test to determine whether an individual must be interviewed by a licensed psychiatrist or psychologist, under § 73.56(e)(4)(i) of this section.
(4) The psychological assessment must include a clinical interview:
(i) If an individual's scores on the psychological test in paragraph (e)(3) of this section identify indications of disturbances in personality or psychopathology that may have implications for an individual's trustworthiness and reliability; or
(ii) If the individual is a member of the population that performs one or more job functions that are critical to the safe and secure operation of the licensee's facility, as defined in paragraph (i)(1)(v)(B) of this section.
(5) In the course of conducting a psychological assessment for those individuals who are specified in paragraph (h) of this section for initial unescorted access or unescorted access authorization category, if the licensed psychologist or psychiatrist identifies or discovers any information, including a medical condition, that could adversely impact the individual's fitness for duty or trustworthiness and reliability, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the psychologist or psychiatrist contact appropriate medical personnel to obtain further information as need for a determination. The results of the evaluation and a recommendation shall be provided to the licensee's or applicant's reviewing official.
(6) During psychological reassessments, if the licensed psychologist or psychiatrist identifies or discovers any information, including a medical condition, that could adversely impact the fitness for duty or trustworthiness and reliability of those individuals who are currently granted unescorted access or certified unescorted access authorization status, he or she shall inform (1) the reviewing official of the discovery within 24 hours of the discovery and (2) the medical personnel designated in the site implementing procedures, who shall ensure that an appropriate evaluation of the possible medical condition is conducted under the requirements of part 26 of this chapter. The results of the evaluation and a recommendation shall be provided to the licensee's or applicant's reviewing official.
(f)
Behavioral observation.
(1) Licensee and applicant access authorization programs must include a behavioral observation program that is designed to detect behaviors or activities that may constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public and common defense and security, including a potential threat to commit radiological sabotage. Licensees, applicants and contractors or vendors must ensure that the individuals specified in paragraph (b)(1) and, if applicable, (b)(2) of this section are subject to behavioral observation.
(2) Each person subject to the behavior observation program shall be responsible for communicating to the licensee or applicant observed behaviors of individuals subject to the requirements of this section. Such behaviors include any behavior of individuals that may adversely affect the safety or security of the licensee's facility or that may constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety or the common defense and security, including a potential threat to commit radiological sabotage.
(i) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall ensure that individuals who are subject to this section also successfully complete initial behavioral observation training and requalification behavior observation training as required in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) Behavioral observation training must be:
(A) Completed before the licensee grants unescorted access or certifies unescorted access authorization or an applicant certifies unescorted access authorization, as defined in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section,
(B) Current before the licensee grants unescorted access update or reinstatement or licensee or applicant certifies unescorted access authorization reinstatement as defined in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section, and
(C) Maintained in a current status during any period of time an individual possesses unescorted access or unescorted access authorization in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section.
(iii) For initial behavioral observation training, individuals shall demonstrate completion by passing a comprehensive examination that addresses the knowledge and abilities necessary to detect behavior or activities that have the potential to constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public and common defense and security, including a potential threat to commit radiological sabotage. Remedial training and re-testing are required for individuals who fail to satisfactorily complete the examination.
(iv) Individuals shall complete refresher training on a nominal 12-month frequency, or more frequently where the need is indicated. Individuals may take and pass a comprehensive examination that meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section in lieu of completing annual refresher training.
(v) Initial and refresher training may be delivered using a variety of media, including, but not limited to, classroom lectures, required reading, video, or computer-based training systems. The licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall monitor the completion of training.
(3) Individuals who are subject to an access authorization program under this section shall at a minimum, report any concerns arising from behavioral observation, including, but not limited to, concerns related to any questionable behavior patterns or activities of others to the reviewing official, his or her supervisor, or other management personnel designated in their site procedures. The recipient of the report shall, if other than the reviewing official, promptly convey the report to the reviewing official, who shall reassess the reported individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status. The reviewing official shall determine the elements of the reassessment based on the accumulated information of the individual. If the reviewing official has a reason to believe that the reported individual's trustworthiness or reliability is questionable, the reviewing official shall either administratively withdraw or terminate the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization while completing the re-evaluation or investigation. If the reviewing official determines from the information provided that there is cause for additional action, the reviewing official may inform the supervisor of the reported individual.
(g)
Self-reporting of legal actions.
(1) Any individual who has applied for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization or is maintaining unescorted access or unescorted access authorization under this section shall promptly report to the reviewing official, his or her supervisor, or other management personnel designated in site procedures any legal action(s) taken by a law enforcement authority or court of law to which the individual has been subject that could result in incarceration or a court order or that requires a court appearance, including but not limited to an arrest, an indictment, the filing of charges, or a conviction, but excluding minor civil actions or misdemeanors such as parking violations or speeding tickets. The recipient of the report shall, if other than the reviewing official, promptly convey the report to the reviewing official. On the day that the report is received, the reviewing official shall evaluate the circumstances related to the reported legal action(s) and re-determine the reported individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status.
(2) The licensee or applicant shall inform the individual of this obligation, in writing, prior to granting unescorted access or certifying unescorted access authorization.
(h)
Granting unescorted access and certifying unescorted access authorization.
Licensees and applicants shall implement the requirements of this paragraph for granting or certifying initial
or reinstated unescorted access or unescorted access authorization. The investigatory information collected to satisfy the requirements of this section for individuals who are being considered for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization shall be valid for a trustworthiness and reliability determination by a licensee or applicant for 30 calendar days.
(1)
Determination basis.
(i) The licensee's or applicant's reviewing official shall determine whether to grant, certify, deny, unfavorably terminate, maintain, or administratively withdraw an individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status, based on an evaluation of all of the information required by this section.
(ii) The licensee's or applicant's reviewing official may not grant unescorted access or certify unescorted access authorization status to an individual until all of the information required by this section has been evaluated by the reviewing official and the reviewing official has determined that the accumulated information supports a determination of the individual's trustworthiness and reliability. However, the reviewing official may deny or terminate unescorted access or unescorted access authorization of any individual based on disqualifying information even if not all the information required by this section has been collected or evaluated.
(2)
Unescorted access for NRC-certified personnel.
Licensees and applicants shall grant unescorted access to any individual who has been certified by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as suitable for such access.
(3)
Access denial.
Licensees or applicants may not permit an individual, who is identified as having an access-denied status by another licensee subject to this section, or has an access authorization status other than favorably terminated, to enter any nuclear power plant protected area or vital area, under escort or otherwise, or take actions by electronic means that could adversely impact the licensee's or applicant's safety, security, or emergency response or their facilities, under supervision or otherwise, except upon completion of the initial unescorted access authorization process.
(4)
Granting unescorted access and certifying unescorted access authorization
—(i)
Initial unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
In satisfying the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, for individuals who have never held unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status or whose unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status has been interrupted for a period of 3 years or more, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section. In meeting requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall evaluate the 3 years before the date on which the application for unescorted access was submitted, or since the individual's eighteenth birthday, whichever is shorter. For the 1-year period preceding the date upon which the individual applies for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, the licensee, applicant or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the employment history evaluation is conducted with every employer, regardless of the length of employment. For the remaining 2-year period, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the employment history evaluation is conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within each calendar month.
(ii)
Interruption of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
In satisfying the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, for individuals who have previously been granted unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, but whose access had been terminated under favorable conditions, licensees, applicants or contractors or vendors shall satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, with consideration of the specific requirements for periods of interruption described below in paragraphs (h)(4)(ii)(A) or (h)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, as applicable. However, for individuals whose unescorted access or unescorted access authorization was interrupted for less than or equal to 30 calendar days, licensees, applicants, or contractors or
vendors must only satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section. The applicable periods of interruption are determined by the number of calendar days between the day after the individual's access was terminated and the day upon which the individual applies for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
(A)
Update of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
For individuals whose last unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status has been interrupted for more than 30 calendar days but less than or equal to 365 calendar days, the licensee, applicant or contractor or vendor shall complete the individual's employment history evaluation in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, within 5 business days after reinstatement. The licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the employment history evaluation has been conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within the calendar month. However, if the employment history evaluation is not completed within 5 business days of reinstatement due to circumstances that are outside of the licensee's, applicant's, or contractor's or vendor's control and the licensee or applicant, contractor or vendor is not aware of any potentially disqualifying information regarding the individual within the past 5 years, the licensee may extend the individual's unescorted access an additional 5 business days. If the employment history evaluation is not completed within this extended 5 business days, the licensee shall administratively withdraw unescorted access and complete the employment history evaluation in accordance with § 73.56(d)(4) of this section. For re-certification of unescorted access authorization, prior to re-certification of unescorted access authorization status of an individual, the licensee or applicant shall complete all the elements stated above including drug screening and employment evaluation.
(B)
Reinstatement of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
For individuals whose last unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status has been interrupted for greater than 365 calendar days but fewer than 3 years the licensee, applicant or contractor or vendor shall evaluate the period of time since the individual last held unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status, up to and including the day the individual applies for re-instated unescorted access authorization. For the 1-year period preceding the date upon which the individual applies for unescorted access authorization, the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the employment history evaluation is conducted with every employer, regardless of the length of employment. For the remaining period, the licensee, applicant or contractor or vendor shall ensure that the employment history evaluation is conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within each calendar month. In addition, the individual shall be subject to the psychological assessment required in § 73.56(e).
(5)
Accepting unescorted access authorization from other access authorization programs.
Licensees who are seeking to grant unescorted access or certify unescorted access authorization or applicants who are seeking to certify unescorted access authorization to an individual who is subject to another access authorization program or another access authorization program that complies with this section may rely on those access authorization programs or access authorization program elements to comply with the requirements of this section. However, the licensee who is seeking to grant unescorted access or the licensee or applicant who is seeking to certify unescorted access authorization shall ensure that the program elements to be accepted have been maintained consistent with the requirements of this section by the other access authorization program.
(6)
Information sharing.
To meet the requirements of this section, licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors may rely upon the information that other licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors who are also subject to this section, have gathered about individuals who have previously applied for unescorted access or
unescorted access authorization, and developed about individuals during periods in which the individuals maintained unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status.
(i) Maintaining unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
(1) Individuals may maintain unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status under the following conditions:
(i) The individual remains subject to a behavioral observation program that complies with the requirements of § 73.56(f) of this section.
(ii) The individual successfully completes behavioral observation refresher training or testing on the nominal 12-month frequency required in § 73.56(f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) The individual complies with the licensee's or applicant's access authorization program policies and procedures to which he or she is subject, including the self-reporting of legal actions responsibility specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(iv) The individual is subject to an annual (within 365 calendar days) supervisory review conducted in accordance with the requirements of the licensee's or applicant's behavioral observation program. The individual shall be subject to a supervisory interview in accordance with the requirements of the licensee's or applicant's behavioral observation program, if the supervisor does not have the frequent interaction with the individual throughout the review period needed to form an informed and reasonable opinion regarding the individual's behavior, trustworthiness, and reliability.
(v) The licensee's or applicant's reviewing official determines that the individual continues to be trustworthy and reliable. This determination must, at a minimum, be based on the following:
(A) A criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation for any individual with unescorted access. The criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation must be completed within 5 years of the date on which these elements were last completed.
(B) For individuals who perform one or more of the job functions described in this paragraph, the trustworthiness and reliability determination must be based on a criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation within three years of the date on which these elements were last completed, or more frequently, based on job assignment as determined by the licensee or applicant, and a psychological re-assessment within 5 years of the date on which this element was last completed:
(
1
) Individuals who have extensive knowledge of defensive strategies and design and/or implementation of the plant's defense strategies, including—
(
i
) Site security supervisors;
(
ii
) Site security managers;
(
iii
) Security training instructors; and
(
iv
) Corporate security managers;
(
2
) Individuals in a position to grant an applicant unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, including site access authorization managers;
(
3
) Individuals assigned a duty to search for contraband or other items that could be used to commit radiological sabotage (
i.e.
, weapons, explosives, incendiary devices);
(
4
) Individuals who have access, extensive knowledge, or administrative control over plant digital computer and communication systems and networks as identified in § 73.54, including—
(
i
) Plant network systems administrators;
(
ii
) IT personnel who are responsible for securing plant networks; or
(
5
) Individuals qualified for and assigned duties as: armed security officers, armed responders, alarm station operators, response team leaders, and armorers as defined in the licensee's or applicant's Physical Security Plan; and reactor operators, senior reactor operators and non-licensed operators. Non-licensed operators include those individuals responsible for the operation of plant systems and components, as directed by a reactor operator or senior reactor operator. A non-licensed operator also includes individuals who monitor plant instrumentation and equipment and principally perform their duties outside of the control room.
(C) The criminal history update and the credit history re-evaluation shall
be completed within 30 calendar days of each other.
(vi) If the criminal history update, credit history re-evaluation, psychological re-assessment, if required, and supervisory review and interview, if applicable, have not been completed and the information evaluated by the reviewing official within the time frame specified under paragraph (v) of this section, the licensee or applicant shall administratively withdraw the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization until these requirements have been met.
(2) If an individual who has unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status is not subject to an access authorization program that meets the requirements of this part for more than 30 continuous days, then the licensee or applicant shall terminate the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status and the individual shall meet the requirements in this section, as applicable, to regain unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.
(j)
Access to vital areas.
Licensees or applicants shall establish, implement, and maintain a list of individuals who are authorized to have unescorted access to specific nuclear power plant vital areas during non-emergency conditions. The list must include only those individuals who have a continued need for access to those specific vital areas in order to perform their duties and responsibilities. The list must be approved by a cognizant licensee or applicant manager or supervisor who is responsible for directing the work activities of the individual who is granted unescorted access to each vital area, and updated and re-approved no less frequently than every 31 days.
(k)
Trustworthiness and reliability of background screeners and access authorization program personnel.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall ensure that any individual who collects, processes, or has access to personal information that is used to make unescorted access or unescorted access authorization determinations under this section has been determined to be trustworthy and reliable.
(1)
Background screeners.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors who rely on individuals who are not directly under their control to collect and process information that will be used by a reviewing official to make unescorted access or unescorted access authorization determinations shall ensure that a trustworthiness and reliability evaluation of such individuals has been completed to support a determination that such individuals are trustworthy and reliable. At a minimum, the following checks are required:
(i) Verify the individual's true identity as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(ii) A local criminal history review and evaluation based on information obtained from an appropriate State or local court or agency in which the individual resided;
(iii) A credit history review and evaluation;
(iv) An employment history review and evaluation covering the past 3 years; and
(v) An evaluation of character and reputation.
(2)
Access authorization program personnel.
Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall ensure that any individual who evaluates personal information for the purpose of processing applications for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, including but not limited to a psychologist or psychiatrist who conducts psychological assessments under § 73.56(e), has access to the files, records, and personal information associated with individuals who have applied for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, or is responsible for managing any databases that contain such files, records, and personal information has been determined to be trustworthy and reliable, as follows:
(i) The individual is subject to an access authorization program that meets the requirements of this section; or
(ii) The licensee, applicant, and contractor or vendor determines that the individual is trustworthy and reliable based upon an evaluation that meets the requirements of § 73.56(d)(1) through (d)(6) and (e) and either a local criminal history review and evaluation as specified in § 73.56(k)(1)(ii) or a criminal
history check that meets the requirements of § 73.56(d)(7).
(l)
Review procedures.
Each licensee and applicant shall include a procedure for the notification of individuals who are denied unescorted access, unescorted access authorization, or who are unfavorably terminated. Additionally, procedures must include provisions for the review, at the request of the affected individual, of a denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization that may adversely affect employment. The procedure must contain a provision to ensure the individual is informed of the grounds for the denial or unfavorable termination and allow the individual an opportunity to provide additional relevant information and an opportunity for an objective review of the information upon which the denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization was based. The procedure must provide for an impartial and independent internal management review. Licensees and applicants shall not grant unescorted access or certify unescorted access authorization, or permit the individual to maintain unescorted access or unescorted access authorization during the review process.
(m)
Protection of information.
Each licensee, applicant, contractor, or vendor shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures to ensure personal information is not disclosed to unauthorized persons.
(1) Licensees, applicants and contractors or vendors shall obtain signed consent from the subject individual that authorizes the disclosure of any information collected and maintained under this section before disclosing the information, except for disclosures to the following individuals:
(i) The subject individual or his or her representative, when the individual has designated the representative in writing for specified unescorted access authorization matters;
(ii) NRC representatives;
(iii) Appropriate law enforcement officials under court order;
(iv) A licensee's, applicant's, or contractor's or vendor's representatives who have a need to have access to the information in performing assigned duties, including determinations of trustworthiness and reliability and audits of access authorization programs;
(v) The presiding officer in a judicial or administrative proceeding that is initiated by the subject individual;
(vi) Persons deciding matters under the review procedures in paragraph (k) of this section; or
(vii) Other persons pursuant to court order.
(2) All information pertaining to a denial or unfavorable termination of the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization shall be promptly provided, upon receipt of a written request by the subject individual or his or her designated representative as designated in writing. The licensee or applicant may redact the information to be released to the extent that personal privacy information, including the name of the source of the information is withheld.
(3) A contract with any individual or organization who collects and maintains personal information that is relevant to an unescorted access or unescorted access authorization determination must require that such records be held in confidence, except as provided in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(2) of this section.
(4) Licensees, applicants, or contractors or vendors and any individual or organization who collects and maintains personal information on behalf of a licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor, shall establish, implement, and maintain a system and procedures for the secure storage and handling of the information collected.
(n)
Audits and corrective action.
Each licensee and applicant shall be responsible for the continuing effectiveness of the access authorization program, including access authorization program elements that are provided by the contractors or vendors, and the access authorization programs of any of the contractors or vendors that are accepted by the licensee or applicant. Each licensee, applicant, and contractor or vendor shall ensure that access authorization programs and program elements are audited to confirm compliance with the requirements of this section and those comprehensive actions
are taken to correct any non-conformance that is identified.
(1) Each licensee and applicant shall ensure that its entire access authorization program is audited nominally every 24 months. Licensees, applicants and contractors or vendors are responsible for determining the appropriate frequency, scope, and depth of additional auditing activities within the nominal 24-month period based on the review of program performance indicators, such as the frequency, nature, and severity of discovered problems, personnel or procedural changes, and previous audit findings.
(2) Access authorization program services that are provided to a licensee or applicant by contractor or vendor personnel who are off site or are not under the direct daily supervision or observation of the licensee's or applicant's personnel must be audited by the licensee or applicant on a nominal 12-month frequency. In addition, any access authorization program services that are provided to contractors or vendors by subcontractor personnel who are off site or are not under the direct daily supervision or observation of the contractor's or vendor's personnel must be audited by the licensee or applicant on a nominal 12-month frequency.
(3) Licensee's and applicant's contracts with contractors or vendors must reserve the licensee's or applicant's right to audit the contractors or vendors and the contractor's or vendor's subcontractors providing access authorization program services at any time, including at unannounced times, as well as to review all information and documentation that is reasonably relevant to the performance of the program.
(4) Licensee's and applicant's contracts with the contractors or vendors, and contractors' or vendors' contracts with subcontractors, must also require that the licensee or applicant shall be provided access to and be permitted to take away copies of any documents or data that may be needed to assure that the contractor or vendor and its subcontractors are performing their functions properly and that staff and procedures meet applicable requirements.
(5) Audits must focus on the effectiveness of the access authorization program or program element(s), as appropriate. At least one member of the licensee or applicant audit team shall be a person who is knowledgeable of and practiced with meeting the performance objectives and requirements of the access authorization program or program elements being audited. The individuals performing the audit of the access authorization program or program element(s) shall be independent from both the subject access authorization programs' management and from personnel who are directly responsible for implementing the access authorization program or program elements being audited.
(6) The results of the audits, along with any recommendations, must be documented in the site corrective action program in accordance with § 73.55(b)(10) and reported to senior management having responsibility in the area audited and to management responsible for the access authorization program. Each audit report must identify conditions that are adverse to the proper performance of the access authorization program, the cause of the condition(s), and, when appropriate, recommended corrective actions, and corrective actions taken. The licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor shall review the audit findings and take any additional corrective actions, to include re-auditing of the deficient areas where indicated, to preclude repetition of the condition.
(7) Licensees and applicants may jointly conduct audits, or may accept audits of the contractors or vendors that were conducted by other licensees and applicants who are subject to this section, if the audit addresses the services obtained from the contractor or vendor by each of the sharing licensees and applicants. The contractors or vendors may jointly conduct audits, or may accept audits of its subcontractors that were conducted by other licensees, applicants, or contractors or vendors who are subject to this section, if the audit addresses the services obtained from the subcontractor by each of the sharing licensees, applicants, and the contractors or vendors.
(i) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall review audit records and reports to identify any areas that were not covered by the shared or accepted audit and ensure that authorization program elements and services upon which the licensee, applicant, or contractor or vendor relies are audited, if the program elements and services were not addressed in the shared audit.
(ii) Sharing licensees and applicants need not re-audit the same contractor or vendor for the same time. Sharing contractors or vendors need not re-audit the same subcontractor for the same time.
(iii) Sharing licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall maintain a copy of the shared audits, including findings, recommendations, and corrective actions.
(o)
Records.
Licensee, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall maintain the records that are required by the regulations in this section for the period specified by the appropriate regulation. If a retention period is not otherwise specified, these records must be retained until the Commission terminates the facility's license, certificate, or other regulatory approval.
(1) Records may be stored and archived electronically, provided that the method used to create the electronic records meets the following criteria:
(i) Provides an accurate representation of the original records;
(ii) Prevents unauthorized access to the records;
(iii) Prevents the alteration of any archived information and/or data once it has been committed to storage; and
(iv) Permits easy retrieval and re-creation of the original records.
(2) Licensees and applicants who are subject to this section shall retain the following records:
(i) Records of the information that must be collected under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section that results in the granting of unescorted access or certifying of unescorted access authorization for at least 5 years after the licensee or applicant terminates or denies an individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later;
(ii) Records pertaining to denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization and related management actions for at least 5 years after the licensee or applicant terminates or denies an individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later; and
(iii) Documentation of the granting and termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization for at least 5 years after the licensee or applicant terminates or denies an individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later. Contractors or vendors may maintain the records that are or were pertinent to granting, certifying, denying, or terminating unescorted access or unescorted access authorization that they collected for licensees or applicants. If the contractors or vendors maintain the records on behalf of a licensee or an applicant, they shall follow the record retention requirement specified in this section. Upon termination of a contract between the contractor and vendor and a licensee or applicant, the contractor or vendor shall provide the licensee or applicant with all records collected for the licensee or applicant under this chapter.
(3) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall retain the following records for at least 3 years or until the completion of all related proceedings, whichever is later:
(i) Records of behavioral observation training conducted under paragraph (f)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Records of audits, audit findings, and corrective actions taken under paragraph (n) of this section.
(4) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall retain written agreements for the provision of services under this section, for three years after termination or completion of the agreement, or until completion of all proceedings related to a denial or unfavorable termination of unescorted access or unescorted access authorization
that involved those services, whichever is later.
(5) Licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors shall retain records of the background investigations, psychological assessments, supervisory reviews, and behavior observation program actions related to access authorization program personnel, conducted under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, for the length of the individual's employment by or contractual relationship with the licensee, applicant, or the contractor or vendor and three years after the termination of employment, or until the completion of any proceedings relating to the actions of such access authorization program personnel, whichever is later.
(6) Licensees, applicants, and the contractors or vendors who have been authorized to add or manipulate data that is shared with licensees subject to this section shall ensure that data linked to the information about individuals who have applied for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, which is specified in the licensee's or applicant's access authorization program documents, is retained.
(i) If the shared information used for determining individual's trustworthiness and reliability changes or new or additional information is developed about the individual, the licensees, applicants, and the contractors or vendors that acquire this information shall correct or augment the data and ensure it is shared with licensees subject to this section. If the changed, additional or developed information has implications for adversely affecting an individual's trustworthiness and reliability, the licensee, applicant, or the contractor or vendor who discovered or obtained the new, additional or changed information, shall, on the day of discovery, inform the reviewing official of any licensee or applicant access authorization program under which the individual is maintaining his or her unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status of the updated information.
(ii) The reviewing official shall evaluate the shared information and take appropriate actions, which may include denial or unfavorable termination of the individual's unescorted access authorization. If the notification of change or updated information cannot be made through usual methods, licensees, applicants, and the contractors or vendors shall take manual actions to ensure that the information is shared as soon as reasonably possible. Records maintained in any database(s) must be available for NRC review.
(7) If a licensee or applicant administratively withdraws an individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status caused by a delay in completing any portion of the background investigation or for a licensee or applicant initiated evaluation, or re-evaluation that is not under the individual's control, the licensee or applicant shall record this administrative action to withdraw the individual's unescorted access or unescorted access authorization with other licensees subject to this section. However, licensees and applicants shall not document this administrative withdrawal as denial or unfavorable termination and shall not respond to a suitable inquiry conducted under the provisions of 10 CFR parts 26, a background investigation conducted under the provisions of this section, or any other inquiry or investigation as denial nor unfavorable termination. Upon favorable completion of the background investigation element that caused the administrative withdrawal, the licensee or applicant shall immediately ensure that any matter that could link the individual to the administrative action is eliminated from the subject individual's access authorization or personnel record and other records, except if a review of the information obtained or developed causes the reviewing official to unfavorably terminate or deny the individual's unescorted access.
[74 FR 13979, Mar. 27, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 39909, July 6, 2012, 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016]
§ 73.57
Requirements for criminal history records checks of individuals granted unescorted access to a nuclear power facility, a non-power reactor, or access to Safeguards Information.
(a)
General.
(1) Each licensee who is authorized to engage in an activity
subject to regulation by the Commission shall comply with the requirements of this section.
(2) Each applicant for a license to engage in an activity subject to regulation by the Commission, as well as each entity who has provided written notice to the Commission of intent to file an application for licensing, certification, permitting, or approval of a product subject to regulation by the Commission shall submit fingerprints for those individuals who will have access to Safeguards Information.
(3) Before receiving its operating license under 10 CFR part 50 or before the Commission makes its finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter, each applicant for a license to operate a nuclear power reactor (including an applicant for a combined license) or a non-power reactor may submit fingerprints for those individuals who will require unescorted access to the nuclear power facility or non-power reactor facility.
(b)
General performance objective and requirements.
(1) Except those listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each licensee subject to the provisions of this section shall fingerprint each individual who is permitted unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, or access to Safeguards Information. The licensee will then review and use the information received from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and, based on the provisions contained in this section, determine either to continue to grant or to deny further unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information for that individual. Individuals who do not have unescorted access or access to Safeguards Information shall be fingerprinted by the licensee and the results of the criminal history records check shall be used before making a determination for granting unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, non-power reactor facility, or to Safeguards Information.
(2) Licensees need not fingerprint in accordance with the requirements of this section for the following categories:
(i) For unescorted access to the nuclear power facility or the non-power reactor facility (but must adhere to provisions contained in §§ 73.21 and 73.22): NRC employees and NRC contractors on official agency business; individuals responding to a site emergency in accordance with the provisions of § 73.55(a); offsite emergency response personnel who are responding to an emergency at a non-power reactor facility; a representative of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) engaged in activities associated with the U.S./IAEA Safeguards Agreement at designated facilities who has been certified by the NRC; law enforcement personnel acting in an official capacity; Federal, State or local government employees who have had equivalent reviews of FBI criminal history data; and individuals employed at a facility who possess “Q” or “L” clearances or possess another active government granted security clearance (
i.e.
, Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential);
(ii) For access to Safeguards Information only but must adhere to provisions contained in §§ 73.21, 73.22, and 73.23: the categories of individuals specified in 10 CFR 73.59.
(iii) Any licensee currently processing criminal history requests through the FBI pursuant to Executive Order 13467, as amended by Executive Order 13764, need not also submit such requests to the NRC under this section; and
(iv) Upon further notice to licensees and without further rulemaking, the Commission may waive certain requirements of this section on a temporary basis.
(v) Individuals who have a valid unescorted access authorization to a non-power reactor facility on November 7, 2012 are not required to undergo a new fingerprint-based criminal history records check pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, until such time that the existing authorization expires, is terminated, or is otherwise to be renewed.
(3) The licensee shall notify each affected individual that the fingerprints will be used to secure a review of his/her criminal history record, and inform the individual of proper procedures for
revising the record or including explanation in the record.
(4) Fingerprinting is not required if the licensee is reinstating the unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information granted an individual if:
(i) The individual returns to the same nuclear power utility or non-power reactor facility that granted access and such access has not been interrupted for a continuous period of more than 365 days; and
(ii) The previous access was terminated under favorable conditions.
(5) Fingerprints need not be taken, in the discretion of the licensee, if an individual who is an employee of a licensee, contractor, manufacturer, or supplier has been granted unescorted access to a nuclear power facility, a non-power reactor facility, or to Safeguards Information by another licensee, based in part on a criminal history records check under this section. The criminal history records check file may be transferred to the gaining licensee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(6) All fingerprints obtained by the licensee under this section must be submitted to the Attorney General of the United States through the Commission.
(7) The licensee shall review the information received from the Attorney General and consider it in making a determination for granting unescorted access to the individual or access to Safeguards Information.
(8) A licensee shall use the information obtained as part of a criminal history records check solely for the purpose of determining an individual's suitability for unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information.
(c)
Prohibitions.
(1) A licensee may not base a final determination to deny an individual unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information solely on the basis of information received from the FBI involving:
(i) An arrest more than 1 year old for which there is no information of the disposition of the case; or
(ii) An arrest that resulted in dismissal of the charge or an acquittal.
(2) A licensee may not use information received from a criminal history check obtained under this section in a manner that would infringe upon the rights of any individual under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, nor shall the licensee use the information in any way which would discriminate among individuals on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, or age.
(d)
Procedures for processing of fingerprint checks.
(1) For the purpose of complying with this section, licensees shall, using an appropriate method listed in § 73.4, submit to the NRC's Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Mail Stop T-07D04M , one completed, legible standard fingerprint card (Form FD-258, ORIMDNRCOOOZ) or, where practicable, other fingerprint records for each individual requiring unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information, to the Director of the NRC's Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, marked for the attention of the Division's Criminal History Check Section. Copies of these forms may be obtained by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, by calling 301-415-5877, or by email to
FORMS.Resource@nrc.gov.
Guidance on what alternative formats might be practicable is referenced in § 73.4. The licensee shall establish procedures to ensure that the quality of the fingerprints taken results in minimizing the rejection rate of fingerprint cards due to illegible or incomplete cards.
(2) The Commission will review applications for criminal history checks for completeness. Any Form FD-258 or other fingerprint record containing omissions or evident errors will be returned to the licensee for corrections. The fee for processing fingerprint checks includes one free resubmission if the initial submission is returned by the FBI because the fingerprint impressions cannot be classified. The one free
resubmission must have the FBI Transaction Control Number reflected on the resubmission. If additional submissions are necessary, they will be treated as an initial submittal and require a second payment of the processing fee. The payment of a new processing fee entitles the submitter to an additional free resubmittal, if necessary. Previously rejected submissions may not be included with the third submission because the submittal will be rejected automatically.
(3)(i) Fees for the processing of fingerprint checks are due upon application. Licensees shall submit payment with the application for the processing of fingerprints, and payment must be made payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The payments are to be made in U.S. funds using the electronic payment methods accepted at
www.Pay.gov.
(For guidance on making payments, contact the Criminal history Program, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy at 301-415-7513). Combined payment for multiple applications is acceptable.
(ii) The application fee is the sum of the user fee charged by the FBI for each fingerprint card or other fingerprint record submitted by the NRC on behalf of a licensee, and an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC. The NRC processing fee covers administrative costs associated with NRC handling of licensee fingerprint submissions. The Commission publishes the amount of the fingerprint records check application fee on the NRC public Web site. (To find the current fee amount, go to the Electronic Submittals page at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html
and see the link for the Criminal History Program.) The Commission will directly notify licensees who are subject to this regulation of any fee changes.
(4) The Commission will forward to the submitting licensee all data received from the FBI as a result of the licensee's application(s) for criminal history checks, to include the FBI fingerprint record.
(e)
Right to correct and complete information.
(1) Prior to any final adverse determination, the licensee shall make available to the individual the contents of records obtained from the FBI for the purpose of assuring correct and complete information. Confirmation of receipt by the individual of this notification must be maintained by the licensee for a period of 1 year from the date of the notification.
(2) If after reviewing the record, an individual believes that it is incorrect or incomplete in any respect and wishes changes, corrections, or updating (of the alleged deficiency), or to explain any matter in the record, the individual may initiate challenge procedures. These procedures include direct application by the individual challenging the record to the agency,
i.e.
, law enforcement agency, that contributed the questioned information or direct challenge as to the accuracy or completeness of any entry on the criminal history record to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Criminal Investigative Services Division, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, WV 26537-9700 as set forth in 28 CFR 16.30 through 16.34. In the latter case, the FBI then forwards the challenge to the agency that submitted the data requesting that agency to verify or correct the challenged entry. Upon receipt of an official communication directly from the agency that contributed the original information, the FBI Criminal Justice Information Services Division makes any changes necessary in accordance with the information supplied by that agency. Licensees must provide at least 10 days for an individual to initiate action to challenge the results of an FBI criminal history records check after the record being made available for his/her review. The licensee may make a final adverse determination based upon the criminal history record, if applicable, only upon receipt of the FBI's confirmation or correction of the record.
(3) In addition to the right to obtain records from the FBI in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the right to initiate challenge procedures in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an individual participating in an NRC adjudication and seeking to obtain Safeguards Information for use in that adjudication may appeal a final adverse determination by the NRC Office of Administration to the presiding officer of the proceeding. The request may also
seek to have the Chief Administrative Judge designate an officer other than the presiding officer of the proceeding to review the adverse determination.
(f)
Protection of information.
(1) Each licensee who obtains a criminal history record on an individual under this section shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures for protection of the record and the personal information from unauthorized disclosure.
(2) The licensee may not disclose the record or personal information collected and maintained to persons other than the subject individual, his/her representative, or to those who have a need to have access to the information in performing assigned duties in the process of granting or denying unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility or access to Safeguards Information. No individual authorized to have access to the information may re-disseminate the information to any other individual who does not have a need to know.
(3) The personal information obtained on an individual from a criminal history record check may be transferred to another licensee:
(i) Upon the individual's written request to the licensee holding the data to re-disseminate the information contained in his/her file; and
(ii) The gaining licensee verifies information such as name, date of birth, social security number, sex, and other applicable physical characteristics for identification.
(4) The licensee shall make criminal history records obtained under this section available for examination by an authorized representative of the NRC to determine compliance with the regulations and laws.
(5) The licensee shall retain all fingerprint and criminal history records received from the FBI, or a copy if the individual's file has been transferred, on an individual (including data indicating no record) for one year after termination or denial of unescorted access to the nuclear power facility, the non-power reactor facility, or access to Safeguards Information.
(g)
Fingerprinting requirements for unescorted access for non-power reactor licensees.
(1) No person shall be permitted unescorted access to a non-power reactor facility unless that person has been determined by an NRC-approved reviewing official to be trustworthy and reliable based on the results of an FBI fingerprint-based criminal history records check obtained in accordance with this paragraph. The reviewing official is required to have unescorted access in accordance with this section or access to Safeguards Information.
(2) Each non-power reactor licensee subject to the requirements of this section shall obtain the fingerprints for a criminal history records check for each individual who is seeking or permitted:
(i) Unescorted access to vital areas of the non-power reactor facility; or
(ii) Unescorted access to special nuclear material in the non-power reactor facility provided the individual who is seeking or permitted unescorted access possesses the capability and knowledge to make unauthorized use of the special nuclear material in the non-power reactor facility or to remove the special nuclear material from the non-power reactor in an unauthorized manner.
[52 FR 6314, Mar. 2, 1987; 52 FR 7821, Mar. 13, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 73.57, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 73.58
Safety/security interface requirements for nuclear power reactors.
(a) Each operating nuclear power reactor licensee with a license issued under part 50 or 52 of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of this section.
(b) The licensee shall assess and manage the potential for adverse effects on safety and security, including the site emergency plan, before implementing changes to plant configurations, facility conditions, or security.
(c) The scope of changes to be assessed and managed must include planned and emergent activities (such as, but not limited to, physical modifications, procedural changes, changes
to operator actions or security assignments, maintenance activities, system reconfiguration, access modification or restrictions, and changes to the security plan and its implementation).
(d) Where potential conflicts are identified, the licensee shall communicate them to appropriate licensee personnel and take compensatory and/or mitigative actions to maintain safety and security under applicable Commission regulations, requirements, and license conditions.
[74 FR 13987, Mar. 27, 2009]
§ 73.59
Relief from fingerprinting, identification and criminal history records checks and other elements of background checks for designated categories of individuals.
Fingerprinting, and the identification and criminal history records checks required by section 149 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and other elements of background checks are not required for the following individuals prior to granting access to Safeguards Information, including Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling as defined in 10 CFR 73.2:
(a) An employee of the Commission or the Executive Branch of the United States government who has undergone fingerprinting for a prior U.S. government criminal history records check;
(b) A member of Congress;
(c) An employee of a member of Congress or Congressional committee who has undergone fingerprinting for a prior U.S. government criminal history records check;
(d) The Comptroller General or an employee of the Government Accountability Office who has undergone fingerprinting for a prior U.S. Government criminal history records check;
(e) The Governor of a State or his or her designated State employee representative;
(f) A representative of a foreign government organization that is involved in planning for, or responding to, nuclear or radiological emergencies or security incidents who the Commission approves for access to Safeguards Information, including Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information—Modified Handling;
(g) Federal, State, or local law enforcement personnel;
(h) State Radiation Control Program Directors and State Homeland Security Advisors or their designated State employee representatives;
(i) Agreement State employees conducting security inspections on behalf of the NRC pursuant to an agreement executed under section 274.i. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(j) Representatives of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) engaged in activities associated with the U.S./IAEA Safeguards Agreement who have been certified by the NRC;
(k) Any agent, contractor, or consultant of the aforementioned persons who has undergone equivalent criminal history records and background checks to those required by 10 CFR 73.22(b) or 73.23(b).
(l) Tribal official or the Tribal official's designated representative, and Tribal law enforcement personnel.
[73 FR 63580, Oct. 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 34206, June 11, 2012]
§ 73.60
Additional requirements for physical protection at nonpower reactors.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024.
Each nonpower reactor licensee who, pursuant to the requirements of part 70 of this chapter, possesses at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the licensee uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium, alone or in any combination in a quantity of 5000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium), shall protect the special nuclear material from theft or diversion pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs 73.67 (a), (b), (c), and (d), in addition to this section, except that a licensee is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section to the extent that it possesses or uses special nuclear material that is not readily separable from other radioactive material and that has a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3
feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding.
(a)
Access requirements.
(1) Special nuclear material shall be stored or processed only in a material access area. No activities other than those which require access to special nuclear material or equipment employed in the process, use, or storage of special nuclear material, shall be permitted within a material access area.
(2) Material access areas shall be located only within a protected area to which access is controlled.
(3) Special nuclear material not in process shall be stored in a vault equipped with an intrusion alarm or in a vault-type room, and each such vault or vault-type room shall be controlled as a separate material access area.
(4) Enriched uranium scrap in the form of small pieces, cuttings, chips, solutions or in other forms which result from a manufacturing process, contained in 30-gallon or larger containers, with a uranium-235 content of less than 0.25 grams per liter, may be stored within a locked and separately fenced area which is within a larger protected area provided that the storage area is no closer than 25 feet to the perimeter of the protected area. The storage area when unoccupied shall be protected by a guard or watchman who shall patrol at intervals not exceeding 4 hours, or by intrusion alarms.
(5) Admittance to a material access area shall be under the control of authorized individuals and limited to individuals who require such access to perform their duties.
(6) Prior to entry into a material access area, packages shall be searched for devices such as firearms, explosives, incendiary devices, or counterfeit substitute items which could be used for theft or diversion of special nuclear material.
(7) Methods to observe individuals within material access areas to assure that special nuclear material is not diverted shall be provided and used on a continuing basis.
(b)
Exit requirement.
Each individual, package, and vehicle shall be searched for concealed special nuclear material before exiting from a material access area unless exit is into a contiguous material access area. The search may be carried out by a physical search or by use of equipment capable of detecting the presence of concealed special nuclear material.
(c)
Detection aid requirement.
Each unoccupied material access area shall be locked and protected by an intrusion alarm on active status. All emergency exits shall be continuously alarmed.
(d)
Testing and maintenance.
Each licensee shall test and maintain intrusion alarms, physical barriers, and other devices utilized pursuant to the requirements of this section as follows:
(1) Intrusion alarms, physical barriers, and other devices used for material protection shall be maintained in operable condition.
(2) Each intrusion alarm shall be inspected and tested for operability and required functional performance at the beginning and end of each interval during which it is used for material protection, but not less frequently than once every seven (7) days.
(e)
Response requirement.
Each licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow an NRC-approved safeguards contingency plan for responding to threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage related to the special nuclear material and nuclear facilities subject to the provisions of this section. Safeguards contingency plans must be in accordance with the criteria in Appendix C to this part, “Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans.”
(f) In addition to the fixed-site requirements set forth in this section and in § 73.67, the Commission may require, depending on the individual facility and site conditions, any alternate or additional measures deemed necessary to protect against radiological sabotage at nonpower reactors licensed to operate at or above a power level of 2 megawatts thermal.
[38 FR 35430, Dec. 28, 1973, as amended at 44 FR 68199, Nov. 28, 1979; 57 FR 33431, July 29, 1992; 58 FR 13700, Mar. 15, 1993; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024, § 73.60 was amended by removing the word “nonpower” and adding in its place the word “non-power”, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 73.61
Relief from fingerprinting and criminal history records check for designated categories of individuals permitted unescorted access to certain radioactive materials or other property.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's regulations, fingerprinting and the identification and criminal history records checks required by section 149 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, are not required for the following individuals prior to granting unescorted access to radioactive materials or other property that the Commission determines by regulation or order to be of such significance to the public health and safety or the common defense and security as to warrant fingerprinting and background checks:
(a) An employee of the Commission or of the Executive Branch of the U.S. Government who has undergone fingerprinting for a prior U.S. Government criminal history check;
(b) A Member of Congress;
(c) An employee of a member of Congress or Congressional committee who has undergone fingerprinting for a prior U.S. Government criminal history check;
(d) The Governor of a State or his or her designated State employee representative;
(e) Federal, State, or local law enforcement personnel;
(f) State Radiation Control Program Directors and State Homeland Security Advisors or their designated State employee representatives;
(g) Agreement State employees conducting security inspections on behalf of the NRC pursuant to an agreement executed under section 274.i. of the Atomic Energy Act;
(h) Representatives of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) engaged in activities associated with the U.S./IAEA Safeguards Agreement who have been certified by the NRC.
[72 FR 4948, Feb. 2, 2007]
§ 73.67
Licensee fixed site and in-transit requirements for the physical protection of special nuclear material of moderate and low strategic significance.
(a)
General performance objectives.
(1) Each licensee who possesses, uses or transports special nuclear material of moderate or low strategic significance shall establish and maintain a physical protection system that will achieve the following objectives:
(i) Minimize the possibilities for unauthorized removal of special nuclear material consistent with the potential consequences of such actions; and
(ii) Facilitate the location and recovery of missing special nuclear material.
(2) To achieve these objectives, the physical protection system shall provide:
(i) Early detection and assessment of unauthorized access or activities by an external adversary within the controlled access area containing special nuclear material;
(ii) Early detection of removal of special nuclear material by an external adversary from a controlled access area;
(iii) Assure proper placement and transfer of custody of special nuclear material; and
(iv) Respond to indications of an unauthorized removal of special nuclear material and then notify the appropriate response forces of its removal in order to facilitate its recovery.
(b)(1) A licensee is exempt from the requirements of this section to the extent that he possesses, uses, or transports:
(i) Special nuclear material which is not readily separable from other radioactive material and which has a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding, or
(ii) Sealed plutonium-beryllium neutron sources totaling 500 grams or less contained plutonium at any one site or contiguous sites, or
(iii) Plutonium with an isotopic concentration exceeding 80 percent in plutonium-238.
(2) A licensee who has quantities of special nuclear material equivalent to special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance distributed over several buildings may, for each building which contains a quantity of special nuclear material less than or equal to a level of special nuclear material of low strategic significance, protect the material in that building under the lower classification physical security requirements.
(c) Each licensee who possesses, uses, transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or 10 kg or more of special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall:
(1) Submit a security plan or an amended security plan describing how the licensee will comply with all the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, as appropriate, including schedules of implementation. The licensee shall retain a copy of the effective security plan as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the original plan was submitted. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(2) Within 30 days after the plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is approved, or when specified by the NRC in writing, implement the approved security plan.
(d)
Fixed site requirements for special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance.
Each licensee who possesses, stores, or uses quantities and types of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance at a fixed site or contiguous sites, except as allowed by paragraph (b)(2) of this section and except those who are licensed to operate a nuclear power reactor pursuant to part 50, shall:
(1) Use the material only within a controlled access area which is illuminated sufficiently to allow detection and surveillance of unauthorized penetration or activities,
(2) Store the material only within a controlled access area such as a vault-type room or approved security cabinet or their equivalent which is illuminated sufficiently to allow detection and surveillance of unauthorized penetration or activities,
(3) Monitor with an intrusion alarm or other device or procedures the controlled access areas to detect unauthorized penetration or activities,
(4) Conduct screening prior to granting an individual unescorted access to the controlled access area where the material is used or stored, in order to obtain information on which to base a decision to permit such access,
(5) Develop and maintain a controlled badging and lock system to identify and limit access to the controlled access areas to authorized individuals,
(6) Limit access to the controlled access areas to authorized or escorted individuals who require such access in order to perform their duties,
(7) Assure that all visitors to the controlled access areas are under the constant escort of an individual who has been authorized access to the area,
(8) Establish a security organization or modify the current security organization to consist of at least one watchman per shift able to assess and respond to any unauthorized penetrations or activities in the controlled access areas,
(9) Provide a communication capability between the security organization and appropriate response force,
(10) Search on a random basis vehicles and packages leaving the controlled access areas, and
(11) Establish and maintain written response procedures for dealing with threats of thefts or thefts of these materials. The licensee shall retain a copy of the response procedures as a record for the period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license for which the original procedures were developed and, for three years thereafter. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(e)
In-transit requirements for special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance.
(1) Each licensee who transports, exports or delivers to a carrier for transport special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance shall:
(i) Provide advance notification to the receiver of any planned shipments specifying the mode of transport, estimated time of arrival, location of the nuclear material transfer point, name of carrier and transport identification,
(ii) Receive confirmation from the receiver prior to the commencement of the planned shipment that the receiver will be ready to accept the shipment at the planned time and location and acknowledges the specified mode of transport,
(iii) Check the integrity of the container and locks or seals prior to shipment, and
(iv) Arrange for the in-transit physical protection of the materials in accordance with the requirements of § 73.67(e)(3) unless the receiver is a licensee and has agreed in writing to arrange for the in-transit physical protection.
(2) Each licensee who receives special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance shall:
(i) Check the integrity of the containers and seals upon receipt of the shipment,
(ii) Notify the shipper of receipt of the material as required in § 74.15 of this chapter, and
(iii) Arrange for the in-transit physical protection of the material in accordance with the requirements of § 73.67(e)(3) unless the shipper is a licensee and has agreed in writing to arrange for the in-transit physical protection.
(3) Each licensee who arranges for the in-transit physical protection of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or who takes delivery of this material free on board (f.o.b.) the point at which it is delivered to a carrier for transport shall:
(i) Arrange for telephone or radio communications between the transport and the licensee or its designee: (A) To periodically confirm the status of the shipment (B) for notification of any delays in the scheduled shipment, and (C) to request appropriate local law enforcement agency response in the event of an emergency.
(ii) Minimize the time that the material is in transit by reducing the number and duration of nuclear material transfers and by routing the material in the most safe and direct manner,
(iii) Conduct screening of all licensee employees involved in the transportation of the material in order to obtain information on which to base a decision to permit them control over the material,
(iv) Establish and maintain written response procedures for dealing with threats of thefts or thefts of this material. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current response procedures as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the original procedures were developed and copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(v) Make arrangements to be notified immediately of the arrival of the shipment at its destination, or of any such shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the estimated time of arrival at its destination, and
(vi) Initiate immediately a trace investigation of any shipment that is determined to be lost or unaccounted for after a reasonable time beyond the estimated arrival time.
(vii) Notify the NRC Operations Center after the discovery of the loss of the shipment and after recovery of or accounting for such lost shipment, in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205 of this part.
(4) Each licensee who arranges the physical protection of strategic special nuclear material in quantities of moderate strategic significance while in transit or who takes delivery of this material free on board (f.o.b.) the point at which it is delivered to a carrier for transport shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (e) (1), (2), and (3) of this section. The licensee shall retain each record required by paragraphs (e) (1), (2), (3), and (4) (i) and (ii) of this section for three years after close of period licensee possesses special nuclear material under each license that authorizes these licensee activities. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change. In addition, the licensee shall—
(i) Make all shipments of the material either (A) in dedicated transports
with no intermediate stops to load or unload other cargo and with no carrier or vehicle transfers or temporary storage in-transit, or (B) under arrangements whereby the custody of the shipment and all custody transfers are acknowledged by signature, and
(ii) Maintain the material under lock or under the control of an individual who has acknowledged acceptance of custody of the material by signature.
(5) Each licensee who exports special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) (1), (3), and (4) of this section. The licensee shall retain each record required by these sections for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license that authorizes the licensee to export this material. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(6) Each licensee who imports special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance shall,
(i) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) (2), (3), and (4) of this section. The licensee shall retain each record required by these sections for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license that authorizes the licensee to import this material. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(ii) Notify the exporter who delivered the material to a carrier for transport of the arrival of such material.
(7) If, after receiving advance notice pursuant to § 73.72 from a licensee planning to import, export, transport, deliver to a carrier for transport in a single shipment, or take delivery at the point where it is delivered to a carrier, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance containing in any part strategic special nuclear material, it appears to the Commission that two or more shipments of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, constituting in the aggregate an amount equal to or greater than a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, may be en route at the same time, the Commission may order one or more of the shippers to delay shipment according to the following provisions:
(i) The shipper shall provide to the Commission, upon request, such additional information regarding a planned shipment as the Commission considers pertinent to the decision on whether to delay such shipment.
(ii) The receiver of each shipment, or the shipper if the receiver is not a licensee, shall notify the Director, Division of Physical and Cyber Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by telephone, no later than 24 hours after arrival of such shipment at its final destination, or after such shipment has left the United States as an export, to confirm the integrity of the shipment at the time of receipt or exit from the United States.
(iii) The Commission shall notify the affected shippers no later than two days before the scheduled shipment date that a given shipment is to be delayed.
(iv) Shipments of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance which are protected in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.20, 73.25, and 73.26 shall not be subject to orders to delay shipment nor considered to constitute a portion of an aggregate formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material for the purposes of determining whether any shipments must delayed.
(f)
Fixed site requirements for special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
Each licensee who possesses, stores, or uses special nuclear material of low strategic significance at a fixed site or contiguous sites, except those who are licensed to operate a nuclear power reactor pursuant to part 50, shall:
(1) Store or use the material only within a controlled access area,
(2) Monitor with an intrusion alarm or other device or procedures the controlled access areas to detect unauthorized penetrations or activities,
(3) Assure that a watchman or offsite response force will respond to all unauthorized penetrations or activities, and
(4) Establish and maintain response procedures for dealing with threats of
thefts or thefts of this material. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current response procedures as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the procedures were established. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(g)
In-transit requirements for special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(1) Each licensee who transports or who delivers to a carrier for transport special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall:
(i) Provide advance notification to the receiver of any planned shipments specifying the mode of transport, estimated time of arrival, location of the nuclear material transfer point, name of carrier and transport identification,
(ii) Receive confirmation from the receiver prior to commencement of the planned shipment that the receiver will be ready to accept the shipment at the planned time and location and acknowledges the specified mode of transport,
(iii) Transport the material in a tamper indicating sealed container,
(iv) Check the integrity of the containers and seals prior to shipment, and
(v) Arrange for the in-transit physical protection of the material in accordance with the requirements of § 73.67(g)(3) of this part, unless the receiver is a licensee and has agreed in writing to arrange for the in-transit physical protection.
(2) Each licensee who receives quantities and types of special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall:
(i) Check the integrity of the containers and seals upon receipt of the shipment,
(ii) Notify the shipper of receipt of the material as required in § 74.15 of this chapter, and
(iii) Arrange for the in-transit physical protection of the material in accordance with the requirements of § 73.67(g)(3) of this part, unless the shipper is a licensee and has agreed in writing to arrange for the in-transit physical protection.
(3) Each licensee, either shipper or receiver, who arranges for the physical protection of special nuclear material of low strategic significance while in transit or who takes delivery of such material free on board (f.o.b.) the point at which it is delivered to a carrier for transport shall:
(i) Establish and maintain response procedures for dealing with threats or thefts of this material. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current response procedures as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the procedures were established. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(ii) Make arrangements to be notified immediately of the arrival of the shipment at its destination, or of any such shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the estimated time of arrival at its destination, and
(iii)(A) Immediately conduct a trace investigation of any shipment that is lost or unaccounted for after the estimated arrival time; and
(B) Notify the NRC Operations Center after the discovery of the loss of the shipment and after recovery of or accounting for such lost shipment, in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205 of this part.
(4) Each licensee who exports special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall comply with the appropriate requirements specified in paragraphs (c) and (g) (1) and (3) of this section. The licensee shall retain each record required by these sections for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license that authorizes the licensee to export this material. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(5) Each licensee who imports special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall:
(i) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) and (g) (2) and (3) of this section and retain each record required by these paragraphs for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special
nuclear material under each license that authorizes the licensee to import this material. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(ii) Notify the person who delivered the material to a carrier for transport of the arrival of such material.
[44 FR 43283, July 24, 1979. Redesignated at 44 FR 68198, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 19215, Mar. 25, 1980; 47 FR 19114, May 4, 1982; 52 FR 21657, June 9, 1987; 53 FR 19260, May 27, 1988; 57 FR 33431, July 29, 1992, 59 FR 14087, Mar. 25, 1994; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 67 FR 78143, Dec. 23, 2002; 68 FR 14530, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021; 88 FR 15891, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Subpart H—Records and Postings

# Source:
88 FR 15801, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.70
Records.
Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records. Each licensee subject to the provisions of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27, 73.45, 73.46, 73.55, or 73.60 shall keep the following records:
(a) Names and addresses of all individuals who have been designated as authorized individuals. The licensee shall retain this record of currently designated authorized individuals for the period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement and, for three years thereafter. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(b) Names, addresses, and badge numbers of all individuals authorized to have access to vital equipment or special nuclear material, and the vital areas and material access areas to which authorization is granted. The licensee shall retain the record of individuals currently authorized this access for the period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement and, for three years thereafter. Copies of superseded material must be retained for three years after each change.
(c) A register of visitors, vendors, and other individuals not employed by the licensee pursuant to §§ 73.46(d)(13), 73.55(g)(7), or 73.60. The licensee shall retain this register as a record, available for inspection, for 3 years after the last entry is made in the register.
(d) A log indicating name, badge number, time of entry, and time of exit of all individuals granted access to a vital area except those individuals entering or exiting the reactor control room. The licensee shall retain this log as a record for three years after the last entry is made in the log.
(e) Documentation of all routine security tours and inspections, and of all tests, inspections, and maintenance performed on physical barriers, intrusion alarms, communications equipment, and other security related equipment used pursuant to the requirements of this part. The licensee shall retain the documentation for these events for three years from the date of documenting each event.
(f) A record at each onsite alarm annunciation location of each alarm, false alarm, alarm check, and tamper indication that identifies the type of alarm, location, alarm circuit, date, and time. In addition, details of response by facility guards and watchmen to each alarm, intrusion, or other security incident shall be recorded. The
license shall retain each record for three years after the record is made.
(g) Shipments of special nuclear material subject to the requirements of this part, including names of carriers, major roads to be used, flight numbers in the case of air shipments, dates and expected times of departure and arrival of shipments, verification of communication equipment on board the transfer vehicle, names of individuals who are to communicate with the transport vehicle, container seal descriptions and identification, and any other information to confirm the means utilized to comply with §§ 73.25, 73.26, and 73.27. This information must be recorded prior to shipment. Information obtained during the course of the shipment such as reports of all communications, change of shipping plan, including monitor changes, trace investigations, and others must also be recorded. The licensee shall retain each record about a shipment required by this paragraph (g) for three years after the record is made.
(h) Procedures for controlling access to protected areas and for controlling access to keys for locks used to protect special nuclear material. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current procedures as a record until the Commission terminates each license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the procedure is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
[53 FR 19261, May 27, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 33431, July 29, 1992; 83 FR 30288, June 28, 2018; 84 FR 63568, Nov. 18, 2019]
§ 73.71
[Reserved]
§ 73.72
Requirement for advance notice of shipment of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel.
(a) A licensee, other than one specified in paragraph (b) of this section, who, in a single shipment, plans to deliver to a carrier for transport, to take delivery at the point where a shipment is delivered to a carrier for transport, to import, to export, or to transport a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel
1
required to be protected in accordance with § 73.37, shall:
1
For purposes of 10 CFR 73.72, the terms “irradiated reactor fuel” as described in 10 CFR 73.37 and “spent nuclear fuel” are used interchangeably.
(1) Notify in writing by mail addressed to ATTN: Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, or by using any appropriate method listed in § 73.4 of this part. Classified notifications shall be sent to the NRC headquarters classified mailing address listed in appendix A to this part.
(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipping facility;
(3) Include the following information in the notification:
(i) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s);
(ii) A physical description of the shipment:
(A) For a shipment other than irradiated fuel, the elements, isotopes, enrichment, and quantity;
(B) For a shipment of irradiated fuel, the physical form, quantity, type of reactor, and original enrichment;
(iii) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer point(s), and route(s) to be used;
(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and
(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination;
(4) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified about the shipment status by telephone at the phone numbers listed in appendix A to this part. Classified and safeguards notifications shall be made by secure telephone. The notifications shall take place at the following intervals:
(i) At least 2 days before commencement of the shipment;
(ii) Two hours before commencement of the shipment; and
(iii) Once the shipment is received at its destination.
(5) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified by telephone of schedule changes of more than 6 hours at the phone numbers listed in appendix A to this part. Classified and safeguards notifications shall be made by secure telephone.
(b) A licensee who conducts an on-site transfer of spent nuclear fuel that does not travel upon or cross a public highway is exempt from the requirements of this section for that transfer.
[52 FR 9653, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4111, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 78 FR 29557, May 20, 2013; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 63568, Nov. 18, 2019; 84 FR 67659, Dec. 11, 2019; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 73.73
Requirement for advance notice and protection of export shipments of special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(a) A licensee authorized to export special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall:
(1) Notify in writing the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to
AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov
or by using any appropriate method listed in § 73.4;
(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipper's facility;
(3) Include the following information in the notification:
(i) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s);
(ii) A physical description of the shipment (the elements, isotopes, form, etc.);
(iii) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used;
(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and
(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination;
(4) Assure that during transport outside the United States, the shipment will be protected in accordance with Annex I to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (see appendix E of this part).
(b) A licensee who needs to amend a written advance notification required by paragraph (a) of this section may notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers listed in appendix A to this part.
[52 FR 9653, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4112, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 67843, Nov. 30, 2021]
§ 73.74
Requirement for advance notice and protection of import shipments of nuclear material from countries that are not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.
(a) A licensee authorized to import special nuclear material of low strategic significance from a country not a party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (
i.e.
, not listed in appendix F of this part) shall:
(1) Notify in writing the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to
AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov
or by using any appropriate method listed in § 73.4;
(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipper's facility; and
(3) Include the following information in the notification:
(i) The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s);
(ii) A physical description of the shipment (the isotopes, enrichment, quantity, etc.);
(iii) A listing of mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used;
(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and
(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination.
(b) A licensee who needs to amend a written advance notification required by paragraph (a) of this section may
notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers listed in appendix A to this part.
(c) A licensee authorized to import from a country not a party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (
i.e.
, not listed in appendix F of this part) a formula quantity of special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, special nuclear material of low strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel shall assure that during transport outside the United States the shipment will be protected in accordance with Annex I to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (see appendix E of this part).
[52 FR 9654, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4112, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 67843, Nov. 30, 2021]
§ 73.75
Posting.
(a) This section applies to:
(1) Production or utilization facilities;
(2) High-level waste storage or disposal facilities and independent spent fuel storage installations;
(3) Uranium enrichment, uranium conversion, or nuclear fuel fabrication facilities.
(b)(1) Licensees or certificate holders operating facilities described in paragraph (a) of this section that have a protected area shall conspicuously post notices at every vehicle and pedestrian entrance to the protected area.
(2) Licensees or certificate holders operating facilities described in paragraph (a) of this section that include buildings not within a protected area that nonetheless contain special nuclear material, byproduct material, or source material shall conspicuously post notices at the personnel and vehicle entrances to each such building, except with respect to buildings for which no security plan is required under this part.
(3) The required notices must state: “The willful unauthorized introduction of any dangerous weapon, explosive, or other dangerous instrument or material likely to produce substantial injury or damage to persons or property into or upon these premises is a Federal crime. (42 U.S.C. 2278a.)”
(4) Every notice posted under this section must be easily readable day and night by both pedestrian and vehicular traffic entering the facility or installation.
(5) These notices may be combined with other notices.
(c) This section does not apply to facilities that, in addition to being regulated by the NRC under a license or certificate of compliance issued by the Commission, are also covered by U.S. Department of Energy regulations imposing criminal penalties, and associated posting requirements, under section 229 of the Atomic Energy Act with respect to unauthorized introduction of dangerous weapons, explosives, or other dangerous instruments or materials likely to produce substantial injury or damage to persons or property.
[74 FR 52674, Oct. 14, 2009]

# Subpart I—Enforcement

# Source:
88 FR 15891, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.77
Cyber security event notifications.
(a) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.54 shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via the Emergency Notification System (ENS), in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Within one hour after discovery of a cyber attack that adversely impacted safety-related or important-to-safety functions, security functions, or emergency preparedness functions (including offsite communications); or that compromised support systems and equipment resulting in adverse impacts to safety, security, or emergency preparedness functions within the scope of § 73.54.
(2) Within four hours:
(i) After discovery of a cyber attack that could have caused an adverse impact to safety-related or important-to-safety functions, security functions, or emergency preparedness functions (including offsite communications); or that could have compromised support
systems and equipment, which if compromised, could have adversely impacted safety, security, or emergency preparedness functions within the scope of § 73.54.
(ii) After discovery of a suspected or actual cyber attack initiated by personnel with physical or electronic access to digital computer and communication systems and networks within the scope of § 73.54.
(iii) After notification of a local, State, or other Federal agency (e.g., law enforcement, FBI, etc.) of an event related to the licensee's implementation of their cyber security program for digital computer and communication systems and networks within the scope of § 73.54 that does not otherwise require a notification under paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) Within eight hours after receipt or collection of information regarding observed behavior, activities, or statements that may indicate intelligence gathering or pre-operational planning related to a cyber attack against digital computer and communication systems and networks within the scope of § 73.54.
(b)
Twenty-four hour recordable events.
(1) The licensee shall use the site corrective action program to record vulnerabilities, weaknesses, failures and deficiencies in their § 73.54 cyber security program within twenty-four hours of their discovery.
(2) The licensee shall use the site corrective action program to record notifications made under paragraph (a) of this section within twenty-four hours of their discovery.
(c)
Notification process.
(1) Each licensee shall make telephonic notifications required by paragraph (a) of this section to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via the ENS. If the ENS is inoperative or unavailable, the licensee shall make the notification via a commercial telephone service or other dedicated telephonic system or any other methods that will ensure a report is received by the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within the timeframe. Commercial telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are specified in appendix A to this part.
(2) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information may be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center without using secure communications systems under the exception in § 73.22(f)(3) for emergency or extraordinary conditions.
(3) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information and/or classified national security information and/or restricted data must be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center using secure communications systems appropriate to the sensitivity/classification level of the message. Licensees making these types of telephonic notifications must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the commercial numbers specified in appendix A to this part and request a transfer to a secure telephone.
(i) If the licensee's secure communications capability is unavailable (e.g., due to the nature of the security event), the licensee must provide as much information to the NRC as is required by this section, without revealing or discussing any Safeguards Information and/or Classified Information, in order to meet the timeliness requirements of this section. The licensee must also indicate to the NRC that its secure communications capability is unavailable.
(ii) Licensees using a non-secure communications capability may be directed by the NRC Emergency Response management to provide classified information to the NRC over the non-secure system, due to the significance of the ongoing security event. In such circumstances, the licensee must document this direction and any information provided to the NRC over a non-secure communications capability in the written security follow-up report required in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) For events reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee maintain an open and continuous communication channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.
(5) Licensees desiring to retract a previous security event report that has been determined to not meet the
threshold of a reportable event must telephonically notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center and indicate the report being retracted and basis for the retraction.
(6)
Declaration of emergencies.
Notifications made to the NRC for the declaration of an emergency class shall be performed in accordance with § 50.72 of this chapter, as applicable.
(7)
Elimination of duplication.
Separate notifications and reports are not required for events that are also reportable in accordance with §§ 50.72 and 50.73 of this chapter. However, these notifications should also indicate the applicable § 73.77 reporting criteria.
(d)
Written security follow-up reports.
Each licensee making an initial telephonic notification of security events to the NRC according to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(2)(ii) of this section must also submit a written security follow-up report to the NRC within 60 days of the telephonic notification in accordance with § 73.4.
(1) Licensees are not required to submit a written security follow-up report following a telephonic notification made under § 73.77(a)(2)(iii) or (a)(3).
(2) Each licensee shall submit to the NRC written security follow-up reports that are of a quality that will permit legible reproduction and processing.
(3) Licensees shall prepare the written security follow-up report on NRC Form 366.
(4) In addition to the addressees specified in § 73.4, the licensee shall also provide one copy of the written security follow-up report addressed to the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, or the Director's designee. Any written security follow-up reports containing classified information shall be transmitted to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address as specified in appendix A to this part.
(5) The written security follow-up report must include sufficient information for NRC analysis and evaluation.
(6) Significant supplemental information which becomes available after the initial telephonic notification to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center or after the submission of the written security follow-up report must be telephonically reported to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center under paragraph (c) of this section and also submitted in a revised written security follow-up report (with the revisions indicated) as required under this section.
(7) Errors discovered in a written security follow-up report must be corrected in a revised written security follow-up report with the revision(s) indicated.
(8) The revised written security follow-up report must replace the previous written security follow-up report; the update must be complete and not be limited to only supplementary or revised information.
(9) If the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under this section as not meeting the threshold of a reportable event, and has not yet submitted a written security follow-up report then submission of a written security follow-up report is not required.
(10) If the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under this section as not meeting the threshold of a reportable event after it has submitted a written security follow-up report required by this paragraph, then the licensee shall submit a revised written security follow-up report in accordance with this paragraph.
(11) Each written security follow-up report submitted containing Safeguards Information or Classified Information must be created, stored, marked, labeled, handled, and transmitted to the NRC according to the requirements of §§ 73.21 and 73.22 or with part 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(12) Each licensee shall maintain a copy of the written security follow-up report of an event submitted under this section as a record for a period of three years from the date of the report or until the Commission terminates the license for which the records were developed, whichever comes first.
[80 FR 67275, Nov. 2, 2015]
§ 73.80
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended:
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under Section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55078, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 73.81
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 73 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 73 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 73.1, 73.2, 73.3, 73.4, 73.5, 73.6, 73.8, 73.25, 73.45, 73.75, 73.80, and 73.81.
(c)(1) No person without authorization may carry, transport, or otherwise introduce or cause to be introduced any dangerous weapon, explosive, or other dangerous instrument or material likely to produce substantial injury or damage to persons or property into or upon a protected facility or installation. Willful violations of this provision are punishable by the criminal penalties set forth in sections 229b and 229c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(2) As used in this section:
(i) “Protected facility or installation” means any production or utilization facility, high-level waste storage or disposal facility, independent spent fuel storage installation, uranium enrichment, uranium conversion, or nuclear fuel fabrication facility, but does not include those portions of such facilities that are not required under § 73.75(b) of this part to be identified by notices posted at their pedestrian and vehicle entrances, and does not include facilities described in § 73.75(c) of this part.
(ii) “Without authorization” means not authorized as part of one's official duties to carry the weapon, explosive, or other instrument or material;
(iii) “Dangerous weapon” includes any firearm, as defined in either 18 U.S.C. 921 or 26 U.S.C. 5845, or dangerous weapon, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 930;
(iv) “Explosive” means any explosive as defined in 18 U.S.C. 844(j).
(3) An item, such as a dangerous weapon, explosive, or other dangerous instrument or material, is considered to have been carried, transported, or otherwise introduced or caused to be introduced into or upon a protected facility or installation for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section once the item has traveled past a notice posted pursuant to § 73.75 of this part at a vehicle or pedestrian entrance to the protected facility, or once the item has entered the protected facility or installation at a location that is not a vehicle or pedestrian entrance to the facility, whether such entry is accomplished through, over, under, or around a fence, wall, floor, roof, or other structural barrier enclosing the protected facility or installation or by any other means.
(4) For all protected facilities or installations that do not possess special nuclear material, byproduct material, or source material as of the effective date of this rule, this provision shall take effect upon receipt of such material at the applicable facility or installation.
[57 FR 55079, Nov. 24, 1992, as amended at 74 FR 52674, Oct. 14, 2009]
Subparts J-S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping

# Source:
88 FR 15891, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.1200
Notification of physical security events.
(a)
15-minute notifications—facilities.
Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.51, or § 73.55 of this part must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, as soon as possible but within 15 minutes after—
(1) The licensee's initiation of a security response in accordance with its safeguards contingency plan or protective strategy, based on an imminent or actual hostile action against a licensee's facility; or
(2) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or act of sabotage anticipated within the next 12 hours against a licensee's facility.
(3) Licensee notifications to the NRC must:
(i) Identify the facility's name; and
(ii) Briefly describe the nature of the hostile action or event, including:
(A) The type of hostile action or event (e.g., armed assault, vehicle bomb, bomb threat, sabotage, etc.); and
(B) The current status (
i.e.,
imminent, in progress, or neutralized).
(4) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(5) The licensee is not required to notify the NRC of security responses initiated as a result of threat or warning information communicated to the licensee from the NRC.
(6) The licensee's request for immediate local law enforcement agency (LLEA) assistance or initiation of a contingency response may take precedence over the notification to the NRC. However, in such instances, the licensee must notify the NRC as soon as possible thereafter.
(b)
15-minute notifications—shipments.
Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, or § 73.37 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, as soon as possible but within 15 minutes after—
(1) The licensee's initiation of a security response in accordance with its safeguards contingency plan or protective strategy, based on an imminent or actual hostile action against a shipment of Category I SSNM, spent nuclear fuel (SNF), or high-level radioactive waste (HLW); or
(2) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or attempted act of sabotage anticipated within less than the next 12 hours against a shipment of Category I SSNM, SNF, or HLW.
(3) Licensee notifications to the NRC must:
(i) Identify the name of the facility making the shipment, the material being shipped, and the last known location of the shipment; and
(ii) Briefly describe the nature of the threat or event, including:
(A) Type of hostile threat or event (e.g., armed assault, vehicle bomb, theft of shipment, sabotage, etc.); and
(B) Threat or event status (
i.e.,
imminent, in progress, or neutralized).
(4) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(5) The licensee is not required to notify the NRC of security responses initiated as a result of threat or warning information communicated to the licensee from the NRC.
(6) The licensee's request for immediate LLEA assistance may take precedence over the notification to the NRC. However, in such instances, the licensee must notify the NRC as soon as possible thereafter.
(c)
One-hour notifications—facilities.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant facility security events involving—
(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:
(A) The theft or diversion of a Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM or
a Category II or III quantity of special nuclear material (SNM);
(B) Significant physical damage to any nuclear power reactor, to a facility possessing a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, or to a facility storing or disposing of SNF and/or HLW;
(C) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear power reactor's controls or with structures, systems, and components (SSCs) that results in the interruption of normal operation of the reactor; or
(D) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any Category I SSNM facility's SSCs that results in an accidental criticality.
(ii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the introduction beyond the vehicle barrier of a quantity of unauthorized explosives that meets or exceeds the relevant facility's adversary characteristics.
(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at the Protected Area boundary.
(iii) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or act of sabotage anticipated within greater than 12 hours against a licensee's facility.
(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(3) Notifications made under paragraph (a) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(4) As an exemption, licensees subject to § 73.50, § 73.60, or § 73.67 are not required to make notifications for events listed under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(d)
One-hour notifications—shipments.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant transportation security events involving—
(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:
(A) The theft or diversion of the Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM; a Category II or III quantity of SNM; SNF; or HLW being transported;
(B) Significant physical damage to any vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or
(C) Significant physical damage to the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported.
(ii) The discovery of the loss of a shipment of Category I SSNM.
(iii) The recovery of, or accounting for, a lost shipment of Category I SSNM.
(iv) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or attempted act of sabotage anticipated within greater than the next 12 hours against a shipment of Category I quantities of SSNM, SNF, or HLW.
(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(3) Notifications made under paragraph (b) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(e)
Four-hour notifications—facilities.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 of this part must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 4 hours after time of discovery of the following facility security events involving—
(i) The actual access of an unauthorized person into a facility's protected area (PA), vital area (VA), material access area (MAA), or controlled access area (CAA);
(ii) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into a PA, VA, MAA, or CAA;
(iii) The actual introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;
(iv) The attempted introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA.
(v)(A) The discovery that a weapon that is authorized by the licensee's security plan is lost or uncontrolled within a PA, VA, or MAA;
(B) Uncontrolled authorized weapons are defined as weapons that are authorized by the licensee's security plan and are not in the possession of authorized personnel or are not in an authorized weapons storage location;
(vi) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear reactor or Category I SSNM facility's controls or SSCs that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set;
(vii) The identification or discovery of a previously unrecognized or unidentified vulnerability that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set; or
(viii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the identification or discovery at or beyond the vehicle barrier of unauthorized explosives.
(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at a distance from the Protected Area boundary greater than that assumed in the facility's blast analysis.
(2) An event related to the licensee's implementation of their security program for which a notification was made to local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials provided that the event does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(3)(i) An event involving a law enforcement response to the facility that could reasonably be expected to result in public or media inquiries and that does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, or in other NRC regulations such as § 50.72(b)(2)(xi) of this chapter.
(ii) As an exemption, licensees need not report law enforcement responses to minor incidents, such as traffic accidents.
(4) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.55 of this part, an event involving the licensee's suspension of security measures.
(5) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(6) Notifications made under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(f)
Four-hour notifications—shipments.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 4 hours after time of discovery of the following transportation security events involving—
(i) The actual access of an unauthorized person into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;
(ii) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;
(iii) The actual access of an unauthorized person into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(iv) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(v) The actual introduction of contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;
(vi) The attempted introduction of contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;
(vii) The actual introduction of contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(viii) The attempted introduction of contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(ix) The discovery of the loss of a shipment of Category II or III quantities of SSNM, Category II or III quantities of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or
(x) The recovery of or accounting for a lost shipment of Category II or III
quantities of SSNM, Category II or III quantities of SNM, SNF, or HLW.
(2) An event related to the licensee's implementation of their security program for which a notification was made to local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials, provided that the event does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(3) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(4) Notifications made under paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(g)
Eight-hour notifications—facilities.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 8 hours after time of discovery of the following facility security program failures involving—
(i) Any failure, degradation, or vulnerability in a security or safeguards system, for which compensatory measures have not been employed within the required timeframe, that could allow unauthorized or undetected access of—
(A) Unauthorized personnel into a PA, VA, MAA, or CAA; or
(B) Contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;
(ii) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear power reactor's controls or with SSCs that does not result in the interruption of normal operation of the reactor; or
(iii) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any Category I SSNM facility's SSCs that does not result in the interruption of normal operation of the facility or an accidental criticality.
(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(3) Notifications made under paragraphs (a), (c), and (e) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(h)
Eight-hour notifications—shipments.
(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 8 hours after time of discovery of the following transportation security program failures involving any failure, degradation, or vulnerability in a security or safeguards system, for which compensatory measures have not been employed within the required timeframe, that could allow unauthorized or undetected access of—
(i) Personnel or contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or
(ii) Personnel or contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(3) Notifications made under paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
(i) through (l) [Reserved]
(m)
Enhanced weapons notifications—stolen or lost.
(1) Each licensee possessing enhanced weapons in accordance with § 73.15 must—
(i) Immediately notify the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) upon discovery of any stolen or lost enhanced weapons (see 27 CFR 479.141).
(ii) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 1 hour, after notification to the ATF of the discovery of any stolen or lost enhanced weapons possessed by the licensee.
(iii) Notify the appropriate local law enforcement agency (LLEA) officials as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours, after the discovery of stolen or lost enhanced weapons. This notification must be made by telephone or in person to the appropriate LLEA officials. Licensees must include appropriate point of contact information in their security event notification procedures.
(2) Notifications to the NRC must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(n)
Enhanced weapons—adverse ATF findings.
(1) Each licensee possessing
enhanced weapons in accordance with § 73.15 must—
(i) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours, after receipt of an adverse inspection finding, enforcement finding, or other adverse notice from the ATF regarding the licensee's possession, receipt, transfer, transportation, or storage of enhanced weapons; and
(ii) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after receipt of an adverse inspection finding, enforcement finding or other adverse notice from the ATF regarding any ATF issued Federal firearms license to the NRC licensee.
(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.
(o)
Notification process.
(1) Each licensee must make the telephonic notifications to the NRC required by paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via any available telephone system. Commercial telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.
(2) Licensees must make required telephonic notifications via any method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Headquarters Operations Center or other specified government officials within the timeliness requirements of paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section, as applicable.
(3) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information may be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center without using secure communications systems under the exception of § 73.22(f)(3) for the communication of emergency or extraordinary conditions.
(4)(i) Notifications required by this section that contain classified national security information and/or classified restricted data must be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center using secure communications systems appropriate to the classification level of the message. Licensees making classified telephonic notifications must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the commercial numbers specified in Table 1 of appendix A to this part and request a transfer to a secure telephone, as specified in paragraph III of appendix A to this part.
(ii) If the licensee's secure communications capability is unavailable (e.g., due to the nature of the security event), the licensee must provide to the NRC the information required by this section, without revealing or discussing any classified information, in order to meet the timeliness requirements of this section. The licensee must also indicate to the NRC that its secure communications capability is unavailable.
(iii) Licensees using a non-secure communications capability may be directed by the NRC emergency response management, in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.52(a), to provide classified national security information to the NRC over the non-secure system, due to the significance of the ongoing security event. In such circumstances, the licensee must document this direction and any information provided to the NRC over a non-secure communications capability in the follow-up written report required in accordance with § 73.1205.
(5) For events reported under paragraph (a) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible.
(i) Licensees must establish the requested continuous communications channel once the licensee has completed other required notifications under this section, § 50.72 of this chapter, appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, § 70.50 of this chapter; or § 72.75 of this chapter; as appropriate.
(ii) Licensees must complete any immediate actions required to stabilize the plant, to place the plant in a safe condition, to implement defensive measures, or to request assistance from the LLEA.
(iii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations from a location deemed appropriate by the licensee.
(iv) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.
(6) For events reported under paragraph (b) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee or its movement control center establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible.
(i) Licensees must establish the requested continuous communications channel once the licensee or the movement control center has completed other required notifications under this section, § 50.72 of this chapter, appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, or § 70.50 of this chapter; § 72.75 of this chapter; or requested assistance from the LLEA, as appropriate.
(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations or the movement control center monitoring the shipment.
(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.
(7)(i) For events reported under paragraphs (c), (e), (g), and (m) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.
(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations from a location deemed appropriate by the licensee.
(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.
(8)(i) For events reported under paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee or the movement control center establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.
(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the movement control center monitoring the shipment.
(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.
(p)
Significant supplemental information.
Licensees identifying significant supplemental information for events reported under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, subsequent to the initial telephonic notification to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center of such supplemental information under paragraph (o) of this section.
(q)
Retraction of previous security event reports.
(1) Licensees desiring to retract a previous physical security event notification made under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, which have been determined to be invalid, not reportable in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, or recharacterized as recordable under § 73.1210 of this part (instead of reportable under § 73.1200), must telephonically notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center in accordance with paragraph (o) of this section and indicate the report that is being retracted and the basis for the retraction.
(2) Invalid, not reportable, or recharacterized events include, but are not limited to, events for which the licensee subsequently receives new information regarding the event or relevant information from an external entity (e.g., the initial information on a reportable event is subsequently determined to be incorrect or a law enforcement determination is made on the absence of a malevolent intent).
(r)
Declaration of emergencies.
Licensees notifying the NRC of the declaration of an emergency class must do so in accordance with §§ 50.72, 63.73, 70.50, and 72.75 of this chapter, as applicable.
(s)
Elimination of duplication.
Licensees with notification obligations under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section and §§ 50.72, 63.73, 70.50, and 72.75 of this chapter may notify the NRC of events in a single communication. This communication must identify each regulation under which the licensee is reporting.
(t)
Classified information.
Licensee notifications regarding security events associated with the deliberate disclosure, theft, loss, compromise, or possible compromise of classified documents, information, or material must comply with the requirements found in § 95.57 of this chapter.
§ 73.1205
Written follow-up reports of physical security events.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) Licensees making a telephonic notification under § 73.1200 of this part must also submit a written follow-up report to the NRC within 60 days of such notifications, in accordance with § 73.4.
(2) As an exemption, licensees are not required to submit a written follow-up report subsequent to a telephonic notification made—
(i) Under the provisions of § 73.1200(e) and (f) regarding interactions with a Federal, State, or local law-enforcement agency;
(ii) Under the provisions of § 73.1200(m) regarding lost or stolen enhanced weapons; or
(iii) Under the provisions of § 73.1200(n) regarding adverse findings from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) for enhanced weapons possessed by the licensee.
(3)(i) Licensees are not required to submit a written follow-up report if the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under § 73.1200 as invalid, not reportable under § 73.1200, or recharacterized as recordable under § 73.1210 (instead of reportable under § 73.1200), and has not yet submitted a written follow-up report under this section.
(ii) If the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under § 73.1200 after it has submitted a written follow-up report under this section, then the licensee must submit a revised written follow-up report documenting the retraction.
(b)
Submission criteria.
(1) Each licensee must submit to the NRC written follow-up reports that contain sufficient information for NRC analysis and evaluation and are of a quality that will permit legible reproduction and processing.
(2)(i) Licensees subject to § 50.73 of this chapter must prepare the written follow-up report on NRC Form 366.
(ii) Licensees not subject to § 50.73 of this chapter must prepare the written follow-up report in a letter format.
(3)(i) If significant supplemental information becomes available after the submission of the initial written follow-up report, then the licensee must submit a revised report with the revisions indicated.
(ii) The revised written follow-up report must replace the previous written report in its entirety. The update must be complete and not be limited to only supplementary or revised information.
(iii) Errors discovered in a written follow-up report must be corrected in a revised report with the revisions indicated.
(c)
Contents.
A written follow-up report must contain:
(1) A brief abstract describing the major occurrences during the event or condition, including all component or system failures that contributed to the event or condition, and significant corrective actions taken or planned to prevent recurrence.
(2) A clear, specific, narrative description of what occurred so that a knowledgeable reader conversant with general security program requirements, but not familiar with the security requirements for the specific facility or activity, can understand the complete event.
(3) The narrative description must include, as a minimum, the following information, as applicable—
(i) The date and time the event or condition was discovered;
(ii) The date and time the event or condition occurred;
(iii) The affected structures, systems, components, equipment, or procedures;
(iv) The environmental conditions at the time of the event or occurrence, if relevant;
(v) The root cause of the event or condition;
(vi) Whether any human performance errors were the cause or were a contributing factor to the event or condition, including: personnel errors, inadequate procedures, or inadequate training;
(vii) Whether previous events or conditions are relevant to the current event or condition and whether corrective actions to prevent recurrence were ineffective or insufficient;
(viii) Whether this event or condition is a recurring failure of a structure, system, component, or procedure important to security;
(ix) What compensatory measures, if any, were implemented in response to the event or condition;
(x) What corrective actions, if any, were taken in response to the event or condition; and
(xi) When corrective actions, if any, were taken or will be completed.
(d)
Transmission criteria.
(1) In addition to the addressees specified in § 73.4, the licensee must also provide one copy of the written follow-up report addressed to the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response (NSIR).
(2) For copies of a classified written follow-up report, the licensee must transmit them to the NRC via either the NRC Headquarters classified mailing address specified in Table 2 of appendix A to this part or via the NRC's secure email address specified in Table 1 of appendix A to this part.
(3) Each written follow-up report containing classified information must be created, stored, marked, labeled, handled, transmitted to the NRC, and destroyed in accordance with the requirements of part 95 of this chapter.
(4) Each written follow-up report containing Safeguards Information must be created, stored, marked, labeled, handled, transmitted to the NRC, and destroyed in accordance with the requirements of §§ 73.21 and 73.22.
(e)
Records retention.
Licensees must maintain a copy of a written follow-up report as a record for a period of 3 years from the date of the report or until termination of the license, whichever is later.
§ 73.1210
Recordkeeping of physical security events.
(a)
Objective and purpose.
(1) Licensees with facilities or shipment activities subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67, must record the physical security events and conditions adverse to security that are specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(2) These records facilitate the licensee's monitoring of the effectiveness of its physical security program. These records also facilitate the licensee's effective tracking, trending, and performance monitoring of these security events and conditions adverse to security; and the subsequent identification and implementation of corrective actions to prevent recurrence.
(3) These physical security events and conditions adverse to security include, but are not limited to, human performance security errors; failure to comply with security procedures; insufficient or inadequate security procedures; security equipment failures and malfunctions; security structures, systems, and components design deficiencies; and inadequate or insufficient security structures, systems, and components. This includes events or conditions where the licensee has implemented compensatory measures within the required timeframe specified in its physical security plan.
(b)
General requirements.
(1) Licensees must record within 24 hours of the time of discovery the physical security events and conditions adverse to security specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(2) Licensees must retain these records for a period up to 3 years after the last entry is recorded, or until their license is terminated, whichever is later.
(3)(i) Licensees must record these physical security events and conditions adverse to security in either a stand-alone safeguards event log or as part of the licensee's corrective action program, as specified under the applicable quality assurance program provisions of parts 50, 52, 60, 63, 70, and 72 of this chapter, or both.
(ii) Licensees choosing to use their corrective action program to record these physical security events and conditions adverse to security must ensure that the records contain sufficient information to permit the effective tracking, trending, and performance monitoring of these events and conditions and the implementation of corrective actions.
(iii) Licensees must ensure that Safeguards Information or classified security information associated with these records is created, stored, and handled in accordance with the provisions of § 73.21, or of part 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(iv) Licensees choosing to use their corrective action program for these records may also choose to bifurcate the information in such records systems so as to maximize the use and advantages of their corrective action programs' tracking, trending, and performance monitoring capabilities while simultaneously compartmenting sensitive security information and security vulnerabilities (
i.e.,
by controlling access and limiting need to know to necessary personnel), in order to ensure information protection requirements are effectively implemented.
(4) These records must include, but are not limited to, information on the following data elements, as applicable—
(i) The date and time the event or condition was discovered;
(ii) The date and time the event or condition occurred;
(iii) The affected structures, systems, components, equipment, or procedures;
(iv) A description of the event or condition;
(v) The environmental conditions at the time of the event or occurrence, if relevant;
(vi) The root cause of the event or condition;
(vii) Whether any human performance errors were the cause or were a contributing factor of the event or condition, including: personnel errors, inadequate procedures, or inadequate training;
(viii) Whether previous events or conditions are relevant to the current event or condition and whether corrective actions were ineffective or insufficient;
(ix) Whether this event or condition is a recurring failure of a structure, system, component, or procedure;
(x) What compensatory measures, if any, were implemented in response to the event or condition;
(xi) What corrective actions, if any, were taken in response to the event or condition; and
(xii) When corrective actions, if any, were taken or will be completed.
(5) Physical security events and conditions adverse to security for which notifications were made to the NRC under § 73.1200 are not required to be recorded under this section.
(6) Suspicious activities that are reported under § 73.1215 are not required to be recorded under this section.
(7) Enhanced weapons events that are reported under § 73.1200 are not required to be recorded under this section.
(c)
Compensated security events.
The requirements of this section apply to any failure, degradation, or discovered vulnerability in a security or safeguards system for which compensatory measures were established within the required timeframe and for which the following could have resulted in—
(1) Undetected access of unauthorized explosives beyond a required vehicle barrier;
(2) Unauthorized personnel gaining access into a protected area (PA), vital area (VA), material access area (MAA), or controlled access area (CAA);
(3) Undetected access of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;
(4) Unauthorized personnel accessing a vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of strategic special nuclear material (SSNM), spent nuclear fuel (SNF), or high-level radioactive waste (HLW);
(5) Unauthorized personnel accessing a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;
(6) Undetected introduction of contraband into a vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, SNF, or HLW; or
(7) Undetected introduction of contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, SNF, or HLW being transported.
(d)
Ammunition events.
(1) For licensees with armed security personnel, the discovery that greater than a small quantity of live ammunition authorized by the licensee's security plan:
(i) Has been lost inside a PA, VA, or MAA; or
(ii) Has been found uncontrolled inside a PA, VA, or MAA.
(2)(i) The discovery that greater than a small quantity of unauthorized live
ammunition is inside a PA, VA, or MAA.
(ii) A small quantity of live ammunition means five rounds or fewer of ammunition.
(iii) Uncontrolled authorized ammunition means ammunition authorized by the licensee's security plans that is not in the possession of authorized personnel or is not in an authorized ammunition storage location.
(iv) Unauthorized ammunition means ammunition that is not authorized by the licensee's security plans.
(3) As exemptions, licensees are not required to record:
(i) Ammunition that is in the possession of Federal, State, or local law-enforcement personnel performing official duties inside a PA, VA, or MAA is considered controlled and authorized; or
(ii) Blank ammunition used for training purposes by the licensee.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Decreases in the effectiveness of the physical security program.
The requirements of this section apply to any other threatened, attempted, or committed act not previously defined in this section that has resulted in or has the potential for decreasing the effectiveness of the licensee's physical security program below that committed to in a licensee's NRC-approved physical security plan.
(g)
Classified Information.
Licensee recordkeeping requirements regarding any security events or conditions adverse to security involving any infractions, losses, compromises, or possible compromise of classified information or classified documents are found in § 95.57 of this chapter.
(h)
Recordkeeping—exemptions.
Licensees subject to § 73.67 who possess or transport SSNM or special nuclear material (SNM) in the following categories are exempt from the provisions of this section:
(1) Category III quantity of SSNM;
(2) Category II quantity of SNM; or
(3) Category III quantity of SNM.
§ 73.1215
Suspicious activity reports.
(a)
Purpose.
This section sets forth the reporting criteria and process for licensees to use in reporting suspicious activities. Licensees are required to report suspicious activities to the local law enforcement agency (LLEA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) local field office, the NRC, and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) local control tower if aircraft are a part of the suspicious activity.
(b)
Objective.
(1) A licensee's timely submission of suspicious activity reports (SARs) to Federal and local law enforcement agencies is an important part of the U.S. government's efforts to disrupt or dissuade malevolent acts against the nation's critical infrastructure. Despite the increasingly fluid and unpredictable nature of the threat environment, some elements of terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures remain constant. For example, attack planning and preparation generally proceed through several predictable stages, including intelligence gathering and preattack surveillance or reconnaissance. These preattack stages, in particular, offer law enforcement and security personnel a significant opportunity to identify and disrupt or dissuade acts of terrorism before they occur. However, to use this information most effectively, timely reporting of suspicious activities by licensees to both Federal and local law enforcement is of vital importance.
(2) Licensee's timely submission of SARs to the NRC supports one of the agency's primary mission essential functions of threat assessment for licensed facilities, materials, and shipping activities.
(c)
General requirements.
(1)(i) Licensees subject to paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section must report suspicious activities that are applicable to their facility, material, or shipping activity.
(ii) If a suspicious activity requires a physical security event notification pursuant to § 73.1200, then the licensee is not required to also report the occurrence as a suspicious activity pursuant to this section.
(iii) If a suspicious activity report results in a LLEA response the licensee must notify the NRC in accordance with the requirements of § 73.1200.
(2)(i) Licensees must promptly assess whether an activity is suspicious. Licensees may review additional information as part of an assessment process, including interactions with their LLEA. However, such assessments and any subsequent reporting must be completed as soon as possible, but within 4 hours of the time of discovery. The licensee must base its assessment upon its best available information on the activity, which may include its knowledge of its locale and the local population.
(ii) The licensee's assessment of a potential suspicious activity, and any discussion of this activity with its LLEA, does not constitute a conclusion, in and of itself, that the activity is suspicious.
(iii) Licensees are not required to report activities that, based on their assessment, appear to be innocent or innocuous.
(3) For a suspicious activity specified under paragraph (d) of this section, the licensee must make the following reports:
(i) First, to their LLEA;
(ii) Second, to their applicable FBI local field office;
(iii) Third, to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center; and
(iv) Lastly, to the local FAA control tower if the suspicious activity involves aircraft overflights in proximity to the licensee's facility.
(4) For a suspicious activity specified under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, the licensee or its designated movement control center must make the following reports, in the order indicated:
(i) First, to the applicable LLEA;
(ii) Second, to the applicable FBI local field office; and
(iii) Lastly, to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.
(iv) For licensees making such reports related to shipping activities, the licensee responsible for the security of the shipment must contact the applicable FBI local field office.
(v) For a movement control center making such reports related to shipping activities, the applicable FBI local field office is as requested by the FBI. As such, the FBI may direct the use of the FBI local field office applicable to the movement control center itself or to the FBI local field office applicable to the licensee responsible for the security of the shipment.
(5)(i) Licensees subject to paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section must establish a point of contact with their local FBI field office.
(ii) Licensees subject to paragraph (d) of this section must establish a point of contact with their local FAA control tower.
(6)(i) For licensees subject to paragraph (e) of this section who are responsible for the security of the shipment(s), the licensee must establish a point of contact with their local FBI field office.
(ii) For licensees subject to paragraph (e) of this section who are employing the services of a movement control center, the movement control center must establish a point of contact with its local FBI field office.
(7) Licensees and movement control centers reporting suspicious activities to the NRC must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via the telephone number specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.
(8)(i) Licensees and movement control centers reporting suspicious activities must document the LLEA and FBI points of contact in written security communication procedures or route approvals, as applicable.
(ii) Licensees reporting suspicious aircraft overflight activities must document the FAA point of contact in written communication procedures.
(d)
Suspicious activities—facilities and materials.
(1) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67, the licensees must report activities they assess are suspicious. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Challenges to the licensee's security systems and procedures;
(ii) Elicitation of non-public information from knowledgeable licensee or contractor personnel regarding the licensee's security or emergency response programs;
(iii) Observed surveillance or reconnaissance activity from within posted or restricted areas (
i.e.,
non-public
areas), including surface activity, underwater activity, manned aerial activity, and unmanned aerial activity;
(iv) Observed surveillance activity from public spaces outside of the licensee's control; or
(v) Unauthorized aircraft activities in close proximity to the facility (
i.e.,
above or near), involving either manned or unmanned aircraft, operating in a manner potentially indicative of surveillance or reconnaissance activity.
(2) As an exemption, this paragraph does not apply to:
(i) Licensees who are subject to the provisions of § 73.67, and who are also engaged in the enrichment of special nuclear material using Restricted Data (RD) information, technology, or materials.
(ii) Licensees who are subject to the provisions of § 73.67 of this part, and who are also engaged in the fabrication of new fuel assemblies.
(3) Licensees are not required to report commercial or military aircraft activity that is assessed as routine or non-threatening.
(e)
Suspicious activity—shipping activities.
(1) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, or § 73.37, the licensee must report activities they assess are suspicious. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Challenges to the licensee's or its transportation contractor's communications subsystems regarding the transport system;
(ii) Challenges to the licensee's or its transportation contractor's security subsystems for the transport system;
(iii) Interference with or harassment of in-progress shipments;
(iv) Elicitation of non-public information from knowledgeable licensee personnel or the licensee's transportation contractor personnel regarding transportation program elements, including: security programs, operations programs, communication protocols, shipment routes, safe haven locations, and emergency response programs; or
(v) Observed surveillance or reconnaissance activity of ongoing shipments.
(2) For licensees using a movement control center for shipments of radioactive material or special nuclear material (SNM), the movement control center may report suspicious activities to LLEA, the FBI, and the NRC, in lieu of the licensee making such reports.
(f)
Suspicious activities—enrichment facilities.
(1) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.67, who are also engaged in the enrichment of SNM using RD information, technology, or materials; the licensee must report activities they assess are suspicious. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Aggressive noncompliance by visitors to the licensee's facility involving willful unauthorized departure from a tour group or willful unauthorized entry into restricted areas;
(ii) Unauthorized recording or imaging of sensitive technology, equipment, or materials; or
(iii) Elicitation of non-public information from knowledgeable licensee or contractor personnel regarding physical or information security programs intended to protect RD information, technology, or materials.
(2)(i) Licensees must report, in accordance with § 95.57 of this chapter, alleged or suspected activities involving actual, attempted, or conspiracies to obtain RD, communicate RD, remove RD, or disclose RD in potential violation of Sections 224, 225, 226, and 227 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2274, 2275, 2276, and 2277).
(ii) As an exemption, the licensee is not required to also report such actual, attempted, or conspiracies to obtain RD, communicate RD, remove RD, or disclose RD as suspicious activities pursuant to this section.
(g)
Suspicious activities—exemptions.
(1) Licensees subject to § 73.67 who possess strategic special nuclear material in quantities greater than 15 grams but less than the quantity necessary to form a critical mass, as specified in § 150.11(a) of this chapter, are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(2) The following licensees are exempt from the provisions of this section:
(i) Docket number 70-7020; and
(ii) Docket number 70-7028.
Pt. 73, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 73—U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Offices and Classified Mailing Addresses
Table 1—Mailing Addresses, Telephone Numbers, and Email Addresses
Address
Telephone
(24-hour)
Email
NRC Headquarters Operations Center
USNRC, Division of Preparedness and Response, Washington, DC 20555-0001
(301) 816-5100; (301) 816-5151 (fax)
Hoo.Hoc@nrc.gov; Hoo1@nrc.sgov.gov
(secure).
Region I: Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont
USNRC, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415
(610) 337-5000, (800) 432-1156 TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn1MailCenter@nrc.gov.
Region II: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia
USNRC, Region II, 245 Peachtree Center Avenue, NE., Suite 1200, Atlanta, GA 30303-1257
(404) 997-4000, (800) 877-8510, TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn2Mail Center@nrc.gov
Region III: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Wisconsin
USNRC, Region III, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352
(630) 829-9500, (800) 522-3025, TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn3MailCenter@nrc.gov
Region IV: Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, and the U.S. territories and possessions in the Pacific
US NRC, Region IV, 1600 E Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511
(817) 200-1100, (800) 952-9677, TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.
Table 2—Classified Mailing Addresses
Classified Mailing Addresses
Address
NRC Headquarters
U.S. NRC, Caller Box 2500, Rockville, MD 20852.
Region I
U.S. NRC, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415.
Region II
USNRC, P.O. Box 56267, Atlanta, GA 30343.
Region III
USNRC, Region III, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352.
Region IV
US NRC, Region IV, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511.
I. Classified mail shall be transmitted in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter to the appropriate NRC classified mailing address listed in this appendix.
II. Classified documents may be hand delivered to the NRC to the appropriate NRC street address listed in this appendix. Hand delivered classified documents shall be transmitted in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter.
III. Classified telephone calls must be made to the telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center in Table 1 of this appendix and the caller must request transfer to a secure telephone to communicate the classified information.
IV. Classified emails must be sent to the secure email address specified in Table 1 of this appendix.
[68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 15012, Mar. 27, 2006; 73 FR 30460, May 28, 2008; 75 FR 21981, Apr. 27, 2010; 76 FR 72086, Nov. 22, 2011; 77 FR 39909, July 6, 2012; 79 FR 66606, Nov. 10, 2014; 82 FR 52825, Nov. 15, 2017; 87 FR 20698, Apr. 8, 2022; 87 FR 68032, Nov. 14, 2022; 88 FR 15898, Mar. 14, 2023]
Pt. 73, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 73—General Criteria for Security Personnel

# Table of Contents
Introduction.
Definitions.
Criteria.
I. Employment suitability and qualification.
A. Suitability.
B. Physical and mental qualifications.
C. Medical examination and physical fitness qualifications.
D. Contract security personnel.
E. Physical and medical requalification.
F. Documentation.
II. Training and qualifications.
A. Training requirements.
B. Qualification requirements.
C. Contract personnel.
D. Security knowledge, skills, and abilities.
E. Requalification.
III. Weapons training and qualification.
IV. Weapons qualification and requalification program.
V. Guard, armed response personnel, and armed escort equipment.
A. Fixed site.
B. Transportation.
VI. Nuclear Power Reactor Training and Qualification Plan for Personnel Performing Security Program Duties
A. General Requirements and Introduction
B. Employment Suitability and Qualification
C. Duty Training
D. Duty Qualification and Requalification
E. Weapons Training
F. Weapons Qualification and Requalification Program
G. Weapons, Personal Equipment and Maintenance
H. Records
I. Reviews
J. Definitions

# Introduction
Applicants and power reactor licensees subject to the requirements of § 73.55 shall comply only with the requirements of section VI of this appendix. All other licensees, applicants, or certificate holders shall comply only with sections I through V of this appendix.
Security personnel who are responsible for the protection of special nuclear material on site or in transit and for the protection of the facility or shipment vehicle against radiological sabotage should, like other elements of the physical security system, be required to meet minimum criteria to ensure that they will effectively perform their assigned security-related job duties. In order to ensure that those individuals responsible for security are properly equipped and qualified to execute the job duties prescribed for them, the NRC has developed general criteria that specify security personnel qualification requirements.
These general criteria establish requirements for the selection, training, equipping, testing, and qualification of individuals who will be responsible for protecting special nuclear materials, nuclear facilities, and nuclear shipments.
When required to have security personnel that have been trained, equipped, and qualified to perform assigned security job duties in accordance with the criteria in this appendix, the licensee must establish, maintain, and follow a plan that shows how the criteria will be met. The plan must be submitted to the NRC for approval and must be implemented within 30 days after approval by the NRC unless otherwise specified by the NRC in writing.

# Definitions
Terms defined in parts 50, 70, and 73 of this chapter have the same meaning when used in this appendix.

# Criteria
A. Employment Suitability and Qualification.
1. Suitability.
(a) Before employment, or assignment to the security organization, an individual shall:
(1) Possess a high school diploma or pass an equivalent performance examination designed to measure basic mathematical, language, and reasoning skills, abilities, and knowledge required to perform security duties and responsibilities;
(2) Have attained the age of 21 for an armed capacity or the age of 18 for an unarmed capacity;
(3) Not have any felony convictions that reflect on the individual's reliability; and
(4) Not be disqualified, in accordance with applicable state or Federal law from possessing or using firearms or ammunition.
(i) Licensees may use the information that has been obtained during the completion of the individual's background investigation for unescorted access to determine suitability; or
(ii) Licensees may use the satisfactory completion of a firearms background check for the individual under § 73.17 of this part to also fulfill this requirement.
(b) The qualification of each individual to perform assigned duties and responsibilities must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested to by a security supervisor.
B. Physical and mental qualifications. 1. Physical qualifications:
a. Individuals whose security tasks and job duties are directly associated with the effective implementation of the licensee physical security and contingency plans shall have no physical weaknesses or abnormalities that would adversely affect their performance of assigned security job duties.
b. In addition to a. above, guards, armed response personnel, armed escorts, and central alarm station operators shall successfully pass a physical examination administered by a licensed physician. The examination shall be designed to measure the individual's physical ability to perform assigned security job duties as identified in the licensee physical security and contingency plans. Armed personnel shall meet the following additional physical requirements:
(1) Vision: (a) For each individual, distant visual acuity in each eye shall be correctable to 20/30 (Snellen or equivalent) in the better eye and 20/40 in the other eye with eyeglasses or contact lenses. If uncorrected distance vision is not at least 20/40 in the better eye, the individual shall carry an extra pair of corrective lenses. Near visual acuity, corrected or uncorrected, shall be at least 20/40 in the better eye. Field of vision must be at least 70° horizontal meridian in each eye. The ability to distinguish red, green, and yellow colors is required. Loss of vision in one eye is disqualifying. Glaucoma shall be disqualifying, unless controlled by acceptable medical or surgical means, provided such medications as may be used for controlling glaucoma do not cause undesirable side effects which adversely affect the individual's ability to perform assigned security job duties, and provided the visual acuity and field of vision requirements stated above are met. On-the-job evaluation shall be used for individuals who exhibit a mild color vision defect.
(b) Where corrective eyeglasses are required, they shall be of the safety glass type.
(c) The use of corrective eyeglasses or contact lenses shall not interfere with an individual's ability to effectively perform assigned security job duties during normal or emergency operations.
(2) Hearing: (a) Individuals shall have no hearing loss in the better ear greater than 30 decibels average at 500 Hz, 1,000 Hz, and 2,000 Hz with no level greater that 40 decibels at any one frequency (by ISO 389 “Standard Reference Zero for the Calibration of Puritone Audiometer” (1975) or ANSI S3.6-1969 (R. 1973) “Specifications for Audiometers”). ISO 389 and ANSI S3.6-1969 have been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register. A copy of each standard is available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738.
(b) A hearing aid is acceptable provided suitable testing procedures demonstrate auditory acuity equivalent to the above stated requirement.
(c) The use of a hearing aid shall not decrease the effective performance of the individual's assigned security job duties during normal or emergency operations.
(3) Diseases—Individuals shall have no established medical history or medical diagnosis of epilepsy or diabetes, or, where such a condition exists, the individual shall provide medical evidence that the condition can be controlled with proper medication so that the individual will not lapse into a coma or unconscious state while performing assigned security job duties.
(4) Addiction—Individuals shall have no established medical history or medical diagnosis of habitual alcoholism or drug addiction, or, where such a condition has existed, the individual shall provide certified documentation of having completed a rehabilitation program which would give a reasonable degree of confidence that the individual would be capable of performing assigned security job duties.
(5) Other physical requirements—An individual who has been incapacitated due to a serious illness, injury, disease, or operation, which could interfere with the effective performance of assigned security job duties shall, prior to resumption of such duties, provide medical evidence of recovery and ability to perform such security job duties.
2. Mental qualifications: a. Individuals whose security tasks and job duties are directly associated with the effective implementation of the licensee physical security and contingency plans shall demonstrate
mental alertness and the capability to exercise good judgment, implement instructions, assimilate assigned security tasks, and possess the acuity of senses and ability of expression sufficient to permit accurate communication by written, spoken, audible, visible, or other signals required by assigned job duties.
b. Armed individuals, and central alarm station operators, in addition to meeting the requirement stated in paragraph a. above, shall have no emotional instability that would interfere with the effective performance of assigned security job duties. The determination shall be made by a licensed psychologist or psychiatrist, or physician, or other person professionally trained to identify emotional instability.
c. The licensee shall arrange for continued observation of security personnel and for appropriate corrective measures by responsible supervisors for indications of emotional instability of individuals in the course of performing assigned security job duties. Identification of emotional instability by responsible supervisors shall be subject to verification by a licensed, trained person.
C. Medical examinations and physical fitness qualifications—Guards, armed response personnel, armed escorts and other armed security force members shall be given a medical examination including a determination and written certification by a licensed physician that there are no medical contraindications as disclosed by the medical examination to participation by the individual in physical fitness tests. Subsequent to this medical examination, guards, armed response personnel, armed escorts and other armed security force members shall demonstrate physical fitness for assigned security job duties by performing a practical physical exercise program within a specific time period. The exercise program performance objectives shall be described in the license training and qualifications plan and shall consider job-related functions such as strenuous activity, physical exertion, levels of stress, and exposure to the elements as they pertain to each individual's assigned security job duties for both normal and emergency operations. The physical fitness qualification of each guard, armed response person, armed escort, and other security force member shall be documented and attested to by a licensee security supervisor. The licensee shall retain this documentation as a record for three years from the date of each qualification.
D. Contract security personnel—Contract security personnel shall be required to meet the suitability, physical, and mental requirements as appropriate to their assigned security job duties in accordance with section I of this appendix.
E. Physical requalification—At least every 12 months, central alarm station operators shall be required to meet the physical requirements of B.1.b of this section, and guards, armed response personnel, and armed escorts shall be required to meet the physical requirements of paragraphs B.1.b (1) and (2), and C of this section. The licensee shall document each individual's physical requalification and shall retain this documentation of requalification as a record for three years from the date of each requalification.
F. Documentation—The results of suitability, physical, and mental qualifications data and test results must be documented by the licensee or the licensee's agent. The licensee or the agent shall retain this documentation as a record for three years from the date of obtaining and recording these results.
G. Nothing herein authorizes or requires a licensee to investigate into or judge the reading habits, political or religious beliefs, or attitudes on social, economic, or political issues of any person.
II. Training and qualifications.
A. Training requirements—Each individual who requires training to perform assigned security-related job tasks or job duties as identified in the licensee physical security or contingency plans shall, prior to assignment, be trained to perform these tasks and duties in accordance with the licensee or the licensee's agent's documented training and qualifications plan. The licensee or the agent shall maintain documentation of the current plan and retain this documentation of the plan as a record for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license for which the plan was developed and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain the material that is superseded for three years after each change.
B. Qualification requirements—Each person who performs security-related job tasks or job duties required to implement the licensee physical security or contingency plan shall, prior to being assigned to these tasks or duties, be qualified in accordance with the licensee's NRC-approved training and qualifications plan. The qualifications of each individual must be documented and attested by a licensee security supervisor. The licensee shall retain this documentation of each individual's qualifications as a record for three years after the employee ends employment in the security-related capacity and for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license, and superseded material for three years after each change.
C. Contract personnel—Contract personnel shall be trained, equipped, and qualified as appropriate to their assigned security-related job tasks or job duties, in accordance with sections II, III, IV, and V of this appendix. The qualifications of each individual
must be documented and attested by a licensee security supervisor. The licensee shall retain this documentation of each individual's qualifications as a record for three years after the employee ends employment in the security-related capacity and for three years after the close of period for which the licensee possesses the special nuclear material under each license, and superseded material for three years after each change.
D. Security knowledge, skills, and abilities—Each individual assigned to perform the security related task identified in the licensee physical security or contingency plan shall demonstrate the required knowledge, skill, and ability in accordance with the specified standards for each task as stated in the NRC approved licensee training and qualifications plan. The areas of knowledge, skills, and abilities that shall be considered in the licensee's training and qualifications plan are as follows:
1. Protection of nuclear facilities, transport vehicles, and special nuclear material.
2. NRC requirements and guidance for physical security at nuclear facilities and for transportation.
3. The private security guard's role in providing physical protection for the nuclear industry.
4. The authority of private guards.
5. The use of nonlethal weapons.
6. The use of deadly force.
7. Power of arrest and authority to detain individuals.
8. Authority to search individuals and seize property.
9. Adversary group operations.
10. Motivation and objectives of adversary groups.
11. Tactics and force that might be used by adversary groups to achieve their objectives.
12. Recognition of sabotage related devices and equipment that might be used against the licensee's facility or shipment vehicle.
13. Facility security organization and operation.
14. Types of physical barriers.
15. Weapons, lock and key control system operation.
16. Location of SNM and/or vital areas within a facility.
17. Protected area security and vulnerability.
18. Types of alarm systems used.
19. Response and assessment to alarm annunciations and other indications of intrusion.
20. Familiarization with types of special nuclear material processed.
21. General concepts of fixed site security systems.
22. Vulnerabilities and consequences of theft of special nuclear material or radiological sabotage of a facility.
23. Protection of security system information.
24. Personal equipment use and operation for normal and contingency operations.
25. Surveillance and assessment systems and techniques.
26. Communications systems operation, fixed site.
27. Access control systems and operation for individuals, packages, and vehicles.
28. Contraband detection systems and techniques.
29. Barriers and other delay systems around material access or vital areas.
30. Exterior and interior alarm systems operation.
31. Duress alarm operation.
32. Alarm stations operation.
33. Response force organization.
34. Response force mission.
35. Response force operation.
36. Response force engagement.
37. Security command and control system during normal operation.
38. Security command and control system during contingency operation.
39. Transportation systems security organization and operation.
40. Types of SNM transport vehicles.
41. Types of SNM escort vehicles.
42. Modes of transportation for SNM.
43. Road transport security system command and control structure.
44. Use of weapons.
45. Communications systems operation for transportation, shipment to control center and intraconvoy.
46. Vulnerabilities and consequences of theft of special nuclear material or radiological sabotage of a transport vehicle.
47. Protection of transport system security information.
48. Control of area around transport vehicle.
49. Normal convoy techniques and operations.
50. Familiarization with types of special nuclear materials shipped.
51. Fixed post station operations.
52. Access control system operation.
53. Search techniques and systems for individuals, packages and vehicles.
54. Escort and patrol responsibilities and operation.
55. Contengency response to confirmed intrusion or attempted intrusion.
56. Security system operation after component failure.
57. Fixed site security information protection.
58. Security coordination with local law enforcement agencies.
59. Security and situation reporting, documentation and report writing.
60. Contingency duties.
61. Self defense.
62. Use of and defenses against incapacitating agents.
63. Security equipment testing.
64. Contingency procedures.
65. Night vision devices and systems.
66. Mechanics of detention.
67. Basic armed and unarmed defensive tactics.
68. Response force deployment.
69. Security alert procedures.
70. Security briefing procedures.
71. Response force tactical movement.
72. Response force withdrawal.
73. Reponse force use of support fire.
74. Response to bomb and attack threats.
75. Response to civil disturbances (e.g., strikes, demonstrators).
76. Response to confirmed attempted theft of special nuclear material and/or radiological sabotage of facilities.
77. Response to hostage situations.
78. Site specific armed tactical procedures and operation.
79. Security response to emergency situations other than security incidents.
80. Basic transportation defensive response tactics.
81. Armed escort deployment.
82. Armed escort adversary engagement.
83. Armed escort formations.
84. Armed escort use of weapons fire (tactical and combat).
85. Armed escort and shipment movement under fire.
86. Tactical convoying techniques and operations.
87. Armed escort tactical exercises.
88. Armed escort response to bomb and attack threats.
89. Verification of shipment documentation and contents.
90. Continuous surveillance of shipment vehicle.
91. Normal and contingency operation for shipment mode transfer.
92. Armed personnel procedures and operation during temporary storage between mode transfers of shipments.
93. Armed escort threat assessment and response.
94. System for and operation of shipment vehicle lock and key control.
95. Techniques and procedures for isolation of shipment vehicle during a contingency situation.
96. Transportation coordination with local law enforcement agencies.
97. Procedures for verification of shipment locks and seals.
98. Transportation security and situation reporting, documentation, and report writing.
99. Procedures for shipment delivery and pickup.
100. Transportation security system for escort by road, rail, air and sea.
E. Requalification—Security personnel shall be requalified at least every 12 months to perform assigned security-related job tasks and duties for both normal and contingency operations. Requalification shall be in accordance with the NRC-approved licensee training and qualifications plan. The results of requalification must be documented and attested by a licensee security supervisor. The licensee shall retain this documentation of each individual's requalification as a record for three years from the date of each requalification.
III. Weapons training.
A. Guards, armed response personnel and armed escorts requiring weapons training to perform assigned security related job tasks or job duties shall be trained in accordance with the licensees' documented weapons training programs. Each individual shall be proficient in the use of his assigned weapon(s) and shall meet prescribed standards in the following areas:
1. Mechanical assembly, dissasembly, range penetration capability of weapon, and bullseye firing.
2. Weapons cleaning and storage.
3. Combat firing, day and night.
4. Safe weapons handling.
5. Clearing, loading, unloading, and reloading.
6. When to draw and point a weapon.
7. Rapid fire techniques.
8. Close quarter firing.
9. Stress firing.
10. Zeroing assigned weapon(s).
IV. Weapons qualification and requalification program.
Qualification firing for the handgun and the rifle must be for daylight firing, and each individual shall perform night firing for familiarization with assigned weapon(s). The results of weapons qualification and requalification must be documented by the licensee or the licensee's agent. Each individual shall be requalified at least every 12 months. The licensee shall retain this documentation of each qualification and requalification as a record for three years from the date of the qualification or requalification, as appropriate.
A. Handgun—Guards, armed escorts and armed response personnel shall qualify with a revolver or semiautomatic pistol firing the national police course, or an equivalent nationally recognized course. Qualifying score shall be an accumulated total of 70 percent of the maximum obtainable score.
B. Semiautomatic Rifle—Guards, armed escorts and armed response personnel, assigned to use the semiautomatic rifle by the licensee training and qualifications plan, shall qualify with a semiautomatic rifle by firing the 100-yard course of fire specified in section 17.5(1) of the National Rifle Association, High Power Rifle Rules book (effective
March 15, 1976),
1
or a nationally recognized equivalent course of fire. Targets used shall be as stated in section 17.5 for the 100-yard course. Time limits for individuals shall be as specified in section 8.2 of the NRA rule book, regardless of the course fired. Qualifying score shall be an accumulated total of 80 percent of the maximum obtainable score.
1
Copies of the “NRA High Power Rifle Rules” may be examined at, or obtained from, the National Rifle Association, 1600 Rhode Island Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20036.
C. Shotgun—Guards, armed escorts, and armed response personnel assigned to use the 12 gauge shotgun by the licensee training and qualifications plan shall qualify with a full choke or improved modified choke 12 gauge shotgun firing the following course:
Range
Position
No. Rounds
1
Target
2
15 yds
Hip fire point
4
B-27
25 yds
Shoulder
4
B-27
1
The 4 rounds shall be fired at 4 separate targets within 10 seconds using 00 gauge (9 pellet) shotgun shells.
2
As set forth by the National Rifle Association (NRA) in its official rules and regulations, “NRA Target Manufacturers Index,” December 1976. The Index has been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register. A copy of the index is available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738.
To qualify the individual shall be required to place 50 percent of all pellets (36 pellets) within the black silhouette.
D. Requalification—Individuals shall be weapons requalified at least every 12 months in accordance with the NRC approved licensee training and qualifications plan, and in accordance with the requirements stated in A, B, and C of this section.
V. Guard, armed response personnel, and armed escort equipment.
A. Fixed Site—Fixed site guards and armed response personnel shall either be equipped with or have available the following security equipment appropriate to the individual's assigned contingency security related tasks or job duties as described in the licensee physical security and contingency plans:
1. Semiautomatic rifles with following nominal minimum specifications:
(a) .223 caliber.
(b) Muzzle velocity, 1980 ft/sec.
(c) Muzzle energy, 955 foot-pounds.
(d) Magazine or clip load of 10 rounds.
(e) Magazine reload,
10 seconds.
(f) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
2. 12 gauge shotguns with the following capabilities:
(a) 4 round pump or semiautomatic.
(b) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
(c) Full or modified choke.
3. Semiautomatic pistols or revolvers with the following nominal minimum specifications:
(a) .354 caliber.
(b) Muzzle energy, 250 foot-pounds.
(c) Full magazine or cylinder reload capability
6 seconds.
(d) Muzzle velocity, 850 ft/sec.
(e) Full cylinder or magazine capacity, 6 rounds.
(f) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
4. Ammunition:
(a) For each assigned weapon as appropriate to the individual's assigned contingency security job duties and as readily available as the weapon:
(1) 18 rounds per handgun.
(2) 100 rounds per semiautomatic rifle.
(3) 12 rounds each per shotgun (00 gauge and slug).
(b) Ammunition available on site—two (2) times the amount stated in (a) above for each weapon.
5. Personal equipment to be readily available for individuals whose assigned contingency security job duties, as described in the licensee physical security and contingency plans, warrant such equipment:
(a) Helmet, combat.
(b) Gas mask, full face.
(c) Body armor (bullet-resistant vest).
(d) Flashlights and batteries.
(e) Baton.
(f) Handcuffs.
(g) Ammunition/equipment belt.
6. Binoculars.
7. Night vision aids,
i.e.
, hand-fired illumination flares or equivalent.
8. Tear gas or other nonlethal gas.
9. Duress alarms.
10. Two-way portable radios (handi-talkie) 2 channels minimum, 1 operating and 1 emergency.
B. Transportation—Armed escorts shall either be equipped with or have readily available the following security equipment appropriate to the individual's assigned contingency security related tasks or job duties, as described in the licensee physical security and contingency plans:
1. Semiautomatic rifles with the following nominal minimum specifications:
(a) .223 caliber.
(b) Muzzle velocity, 1,980 ft/sec.
(c) Muzzle energy, 955 foot-pounds.
(d) Magazine or clip of 10 rounds.
(e) Reload capability, 10 seconds.
(f) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
2. 12 gauge shotguns.
(a) 4 round pump or semiautomatic.
(b) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
(c) Full or modified choke.
3. Semiautomatic pistols or revolvers with the following nominal minimum specifications:
(a) .354 caliber.
(b) Muzzle energy, 250 foot-pounds.
(c) Full magazine or cylinder reload capability 6 seconds.
(d) Muzzle velocity, 850 ft/sec.
(e) Full cylinder or magazine capacity, 6 rounds.
(f) Operable in any environment in which it will be used.
4. Ammunition for each shipment.
(a) For each assigned weapon as appropriate to the individual's assigned contingency security job duties and as readily available as the weapon:
(1) 36 rounds per handgun.
(2) 120 rounds per semiautomatic rifle.
(3) 12 rounds each per shotgun (00 gauge and slug).
5. Escort vehicles, bullet resisting, equipped with communications systems, red flares, first aid kit, emergency tool kit, tire changing equipment, battery chargers for radios (where appropriate, for recharging portable radio batteries).
6. Personal equipment to be readily available for individuals whose assigned contingency security job duties, as described in the licensee physical security and contingency plans, warrant such equipment:
(a) Helmet, combat.
(b) Gas mask, full face.
(c) Body armor (bullet-resistant vest).
(d) Flashlights and batteries.
(e) Baton.
(f) Ammunition/equipment belt.
(g) Pager/duress alarms.
7. Binoculars.
8. Night vision aids,
i.e.
, hand-fired illumination flares or equivalent.
9. Tear gas or other nonlethal gas.
VI. Nuclear Power Reactor Training and Qualification Plan for Personnel Performing Security Program Duties
A. General Requirements and Introduction
1. The licensee shall ensure that all individuals who are assigned duties and responsibilities required to prevent significant core damage and spent fuel sabotage, implement the Commission-approved security plans, licensee response strategy, and implementing procedures, meet minimum training and qualification requirements to ensure each individual possesses the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to effectively perform the assigned duties and responsibilities.
2. To ensure that those individuals who are assigned to perform duties and responsibilities required for the implementation of the Commission-approved security plans, licensee response strategy, and implementing procedures are properly suited, trained, equipped, and qualified to perform their assigned duties and responsibilities, the Commission has developed minimum training and qualification requirements that must be implemented through a Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
3. The licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow a Commission-approved training and qualification plan, describing how the minimum training and qualification requirements set forth in this appendix will be met, to include the processes by which all individuals, will be selected, trained, equipped, tested, and qualified.
4. Each individual assigned to perform security program duties and responsibilities required to effectively implement the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and the licensee implementing procedures, shall demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to effectively perform the assigned duties and responsibilities before the individual is assigned the duty or responsibility.
5. The licensee shall ensure that the training and qualification program simulates, as closely as practicable, the specific conditions under which the individual shall be required to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
6. The licensee may not allow any individual to perform any security function, assume any security duties or responsibilities, or return to security duty, until that individual satisfies the training and qualification requirements of this appendix and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan, unless specifically authorized by the Commission.
7. Annual requirements must be scheduled at a nominal twelve (12) month periodicity. Annual requirements may be completed up to three (3) months before or three (3) months after the scheduled date. However, the next annual training must be scheduled twelve (12) months from the previously scheduled date rather than the date the training was actually completed.
B. Employment Suitability and Qualification
1. Suitability.
(a) Before employment, or assignment to the security organization, an individual shall:
(1) Possess a high school diploma or pass an equivalent performance examination designed to measure basic mathematical, language, and reasoning skills, abilities, and knowledge required to perform security duties and responsibilities;
(2) Have attained the age of 21 for an armed capacity or the age of 18 for an unarmed capacity; and
(3) Not have any felony convictions that reflect on the individual's reliability.
(4) Individuals in an armed capacity, would not be disqualified from possessing or using firearms or ammunition in accordance with applicable state or Federal law, to include 18 U.S.C. 922. Licensees shall use information
that has been obtained during the completion of the individual's background investigation for unescorted access to determine suitability.
(b) The qualification of each individual to perform assigned duties and responsibilities must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested to by a security supervisor.
2. Physical qualifications.
(a) General physical qualifications.
(1) Individuals whose duties and responsibilities are directly associated with the effective implementation of the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures, may not have any physical conditions that would adversely affect their performance of assigned security duties and responsibilities.
(2) Armed and unarmed individuals assigned security duties and responsibilities shall be subject to a physical examination designed to measure the individual's physical ability to perform assigned duties and responsibilities as identified in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures.
(3) This physical examination must be administered by a licensed health professional with the final determination being made by a licensed physician to verify the individual's physical capability to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
(4) The licensee shall ensure that both armed and unarmed individuals who are assigned security duties and responsibilities identified in the Commission-approved security plans, the licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures, meet the following minimum physical requirements, as required to effectively perform their assigned duties.
(b) Vision.
(1) For each individual, distant visual acuity in each eye shall be correctable to 20/30 (Snellen or equivalent) in the better eye and 20/40 in the other eye with eyeglasses or contact lenses.
(2) Near visual acuity, corrected or uncorrected, shall be at least 20/40 in the better eye.
(3) Field of vision must be at least 70 degrees horizontal meridian in each eye.
(4) The ability to distinguish red, green, and yellow colors is required.
(5) Loss of vision in one eye is disqualifying.
(6) Glaucoma is disqualifying, unless controlled by acceptable medical or surgical means, provided that medications used for controlling glaucoma do not cause undesirable side effects which adversely affect the individual's ability to perform assigned security duties, and provided the visual acuity and field of vision requirements stated previously are met.
(7) On-the-job evaluation must be used for individuals who exhibit a mild color vision defect.
(8) If uncorrected distance vision is not at least 20/40 in the better eye, the individual shall carry an extra pair of corrective lenses in the event that the primaries are damaged. Corrective eyeglasses must be of the safety glass type.
(9) The use of corrective eyeglasses or contact lenses may not interfere with an individual's ability to effectively perform assigned duties and responsibilities during normal or emergency conditions.
(c) Hearing.
(1) Individuals may not have hearing loss in the better ear greater than 30 decibels average at 500 Hz, 1,000 Hz, and 2,000 Hz with no level greater than 40 decibels at any one frequency.
(2) A hearing aid is acceptable provided suitable testing procedures demonstrate auditory acuity equivalent to the hearing requirement.
(3) The use of a hearing aid may not decrease the effective performance of the individual's assigned security duties during normal or emergency operations.
(d) Existing medical conditions.
(1) Individuals may not have an established medical history or medical diagnosis of existing medical conditions which could interfere with or prevent the individual from effectively performing assigned duties and responsibilities.
(2) If a medical condition exists, the individual shall provide medical evidence that the condition can be controlled with medical treatment in a manner which does not adversely affect the individual's fitness-for-duty, mental alertness, physical condition, or capability to otherwise effectively perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
(e) Addiction. Individuals may not have any established medical history or medical diagnosis of habitual alcoholism or drug addiction, or, where this type of condition has existed, the individual shall provide certified documentation of having completed a rehabilitation program which would give a reasonable degree of confidence that the individual would be capable of effectively performing assigned duties and responsibilities.
(f) Other physical requirements. An individual who has been incapacitated due to a serious illness, injury, disease, or operation, which could interfere with the effective performance of assigned duties and responsibilities shall, before resumption of assigned duties and responsibilities, provide medical evidence of recovery and ability to perform these duties and responsibilities.
3. Psychological qualifications.
(a) Armed and unarmed individuals shall demonstrate the ability to apply good judgment, mental alertness, the capability to implement instructions and assigned tasks, and
possess the acuity of senses and ability of expression sufficient to permit accurate communication by written, spoken, audible, visible, or other signals required by assigned duties and responsibilities.
(b) A licensed psychologist, psychiatrist, or physician trained in part to identify emotional instability shall determine whether armed members of the security organization and alarm station operators in addition to meeting the requirement stated in paragraph (a) of this section, have no emotional instability that would interfere with the effective performance of assigned duties and responsibilities.
(c) A person professionally trained to identify emotional instability shall determine whether unarmed individuals in addition to meeting the requirement stated in paragraph (a) of this section, have no emotional instability that would interfere with the effective performance of assigned duties and responsibilities.
4. Medical examinations and physical fitness qualifications.
(a) Armed members of the security organization shall be subject to a medical examination by a licensed physician, to determine the individual's fitness to participate in physical fitness tests.
(1) The licensee shall obtain and retain a written certification from the licensed physician that no medical conditions were disclosed by the medical examination that would preclude the individual's ability to participate in the physical fitness tests or meet the physical fitness attributes or objectives associated with assigned duties.
(b) Before assignment, armed members of the security organization shall demonstrate physical fitness for assigned duties and responsibilities by performing a practical physical fitness test.
(1) The physical fitness test must consider physical conditions such as strenuous activity, physical exertion, levels of stress, and exposure to the elements as they pertain to each individual's assigned security duties for both normal and emergency operations and must simulate site specific conditions under which the individual will be required to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
(2) The licensee shall describe the physical fitness test in the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(3) The physical fitness test must include physical attributes and performance objectives which demonstrate the strength, endurance, and agility, consistent with assigned duties in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures during normal and emergency conditions.
(4) The physical fitness qualification of each armed member of the security organization must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested to by a security supervisor.
5. Physical requalification.
(a) At least annually, armed and unarmed individuals shall be required to demonstrate the capability to meet the physical requirements of this appendix and the licensee training and qualification plan.
(b) The physical requalification of each armed and unarmed individual must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested to by a security supervisor.
C. Duty Training
1. Duty training and qualification requirements. All personnel who are assigned to perform any security-related duty or responsibility shall be trained and qualified to perform assigned duties and responsibilities to ensure that each individual possesses the minimum knowledge, skills, and abilities required to effectively carry out those assigned duties and responsibilities.
(a) The areas of knowledge, skills, and abilities that are required to perform assigned duties and responsibilities must be identified in the licensee's Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(b) Each individual who is assigned duties and responsibilities identified in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures shall, before assignment:
(1) Be trained to perform assigned duties and responsibilities in accordance with the requirements of this appendix and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(2) Meet the minimum qualification requirements of this appendix and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(3) Be trained and qualified in the use of all equipment or devices required to effectively perform all assigned duties and responsibilities.
2. On-the-job training.
(a) The licensee training and qualification program must include on-the-job training performance standards and criteria to ensure that each individual demonstrates the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to effectively carry-out assigned duties and responsibilities in accordance with the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures, before the individual is assigned the duty or responsibility.
(b) In addition to meeting the requirement stated in paragraph C.2.(a) of this appendix, before assignment, individuals (e.g., response team leaders, alarm station operators, armed responders, and armed security officers designated as a component of the protective strategy) assigned duties and responsibilities to implement the Safeguards Contingency Plan shall complete a minimum of 40 hours of on-the-job training to demonstrate their
ability to effectively apply the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to effectively perform assigned
contingency
duties and responsibilities in accordance with the approved safeguards contingency plan, other security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures. On-the-job training must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested to by a security supervisor.
(c) On-the-job training for contingency activities and drills must include, but is not limited to, hands-on application of knowledge, skills, and abilities related to:
(1) Response team duties.
(2) Use of force.
(3) Tactical movement.
(4) Cover and concealment.
(5) Defensive positions.
(6) Fields-of-fire.
(7) Re-deployment.
(8) Communications (primary and alternate).
(9) Use of assigned equipment.
(10) Target sets.
(11) Table top drills.
(12) Command and control duties.
(13) Licensee Protective Strategy.
3. Performance Evaluation Program.
(a) Licensees shall develop, implement and maintain a Performance Evaluation Program that is documented in procedures which describes how the licensee will demonstrate and assess the effectiveness of their onsite physical protection program and protective strategy, including the capability of the armed response team to carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities during safeguards contingency events. The Performance Evaluation Program and procedures shall be referenced in the licensee's Training and Qualifications Plan.
(b) The Performance Evaluation Program shall include procedures for the conduct of tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises designed to demonstrate and assess the effectiveness of the licensee's physical protection program, protective strategy and contingency event response by all individuals with responsibilities for implementing the safeguards contingency plan.
(c) The licensee shall conduct tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises in accordance with Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures.
(d) Tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises must be designed to challenge the site protective strategy against elements of the design basis threat and ensure each participant assigned security duties and responsibilities identified in the Commission-approved security plans, the licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures demonstrate the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities.
(e) Tactical response drills, force-on-force exercises, and associated contingency response training shall be conducted under conditions that simulate, as closely as practicable, the site-specific conditions under which each member will, or may be, required to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.
(f) The scope of tactical response drills conducted for training purposes shall be determined by the licensee and must address site-specific, individual or programmatic elements, and may be limited to specific portions of the site protective strategy.
(g) Each tactical response drill and force-on-force exercise shall include a documented post-exercise critique in which participants identify failures, deficiencies or other findings in performance, plans, equipment or strategies.
(h) Licensees shall document scenarios and participants for all tactical response drills and annual force-on-force exercises conducted.
(i) Findings, deficiencies and failures identified during tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises that adversely affect or decrease the effectiveness of the protective strategy and physical protection program shall be entered into the licensee's corrective action program to ensure that timely corrections are made to the appropriate program areas.
(j) Findings, deficiencies and failures associated with the onsite physical protection program and protective strategy shall be protected as necessary in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR 73.21.
(k) For the purpose of tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises, licensees shall:
(1) Use no more than the total number of armed responders and armed security officers documented in the security plans.
(2) Minimize the number and effects of artificialities associated with tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises.
(3) Implement the use of systems or methodologies that simulate the realities of armed engagement through visual and audible means, and reflect the capabilities of armed personnel to neutralize a target through the use of firearms.
(4) Ensure that each scenario used provides a credible, realistic challenge to the protective strategy and the capabilities of the security response organization.
(l) The Performance Evaluation Program must be designed to ensure that:
(1) Each member of each shift who is assigned duties and responsibilities required to implement the safeguards contingency plan and licensee protective strategy participates in at least one (1) tactical response drill on a quarterly basis and one (1) force-on-force exercise on an annual basis. Force-on-force
exercises conducted to satisfy the NRC triennial evaluation requirement can be used to satisfy the annual force-on-force requirement for the personnel that participate in the capacity of the security response organization.
(2) The mock adversary force replicates, as closely as possible, adversary characteristics and capabilities of the design basis threat described in 10 CFR 73.1(a)(1), and is capable of exploiting and challenging the licensees protective strategy, personnel, command and control, and implementing procedures.
(3) Protective strategies can be evaluated and challenged through the conduct of tactical response tabletop demonstrations.
(4) Drill and exercise controllers are trained and qualified to ensure that each controller has the requisite knowledge and experience to control and evaluate exercises.
(5) Tactical response drills and force-on-force exercises are conducted safely and in accordance with site safety plans.
(m) Scenarios.
(1) Licensees shall develop and document multiple scenarios for use in conducting quarterly tactical response drills and annual force-on-force exercises.
(2) Licensee scenarios must be designed to test and challenge any components or combination of components, of the onsite physical protection program and protective strategy.
(3) Each scenario must use a unique target set or target sets, and varying combinations of adversary equipment, strategies, and tactics, to ensure that the combination of all scenarios challenges every component of the onsite physical protection program and protective strategy to include, but not limited to, equipment, implementing procedures, and personnel.
D. Duty Qualification and Requalification
1. Qualification demonstration.
(a) Armed and unarmed individuals shall demonstrate the required knowledge, skills, and abilities to carry out assigned duties and responsibilities as stated in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures.
(b) This demonstration must include written exams and hands-on performance demonstrations.
(1) Written Exams. The written exams must include those elements listed in the Commission-approved training and qualification plan and shall require a minimum score of 80 percent to demonstrate an acceptable understanding of assigned duties and responsibilities, to include the recognition of potential tampering involving both safety and security equipment and systems.
(2) Hands-on Performance Demonstrations. Armed and unarmed individuals shall demonstrate hands-on performance for assigned duties and responsibilities by performing a practical hands-on demonstration for required tasks. The hands-on demonstration must ensure that theory and associated learning objectives for each required task are considered and each individual demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to effectively perform the task.
(3) Annual Written Exam. Armed individuals shall be administered an annual written exam that demonstrates the required knowledge, skills, and abilities to carry out assigned duties and responsibilities as an armed member of the security organization. The annual written exam must include those elements listed in the Commission-approved training and qualification plan and shall require a minimum score of 80 percent to demonstrate an acceptable understanding of assigned duties and responsibilities.
(c) Upon request by an authorized representative of the Commission, any individual assigned to perform any security-related duty or responsibility shall demonstrate the required knowledge, skills, and abilities for each assigned duty and responsibility, as stated in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, or implementing procedures.
2. Requalification.
(a) Armed and unarmed individuals shall be requalified at least annually in accordance with the requirements of this appendix and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(b) The results of requalification must be documented by a qualified training instructor and attested by a security supervisor.
E. Weapons Training
1. General firearms training.
(a) Armed members of the security organization shall be trained and qualified in accordance with the requirements of this appendix and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(b) Firearms instructors.
(1) Each armed member of the security organization shall be trained and qualified by a certified firearms instructor for the use and maintenance of each assigned weapon to include but not limited to, marksmanship, assembly, disassembly, cleaning, storage, handling, clearing, loading, unloading, and reloading, for each assigned weapon.
(2) Firearms instructors shall be certified from a national or state recognized entity.
(3) Certification must specify the weapon or weapon type(s) for which the instructor is qualified to teach.
(4) Firearms instructors shall be recertified in accordance with the standards recognized by the certifying national or state entity, but in no case shall recertification exceed three (3) years.
(c) Annual firearms familiarization. The licensee shall conduct annual firearms familiarization training in accordance with the Commission-approved training and qualification plan.
(d) The Commission-approved training and qualification plan shall include, but is not limited to, the following areas:
(1) Mechanical assembly, disassembly, weapons capabilities and fundamentals of marksmanship.
(2) Weapons cleaning and storage.
(3) Combat firing, day and night.
(4) Safe weapons handling.
(5) Clearing, loading, unloading, and reloading.
(6) Firing under stress.
(7) Zeroing duty weapon(s) and weapons sighting adjustments.
(8) Target identification and engagement.
(9) Weapon malfunctions.
(10) Cover and concealment.
(11) Weapon familiarization.
(e) The licensee shall ensure that each armed member of the security organization is instructed on the use of deadly force as authorized by applicable state law.
(f) Armed members of the security organization shall participate in weapons range activities on a nominal four (4) month periodicity. Performance may be conducted up to five (5) weeks before, to five (5) weeks after, the scheduled date. The next scheduled date must be four (4) months from the originally scheduled date.
F. Weapons Qualification and Requalification Program
1. General weapons qualification requirements.
(a) Qualification firing must be accomplished in accordance with Commission requirements and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan for assigned weapons.
(b) The results of weapons qualification and requalification must be documented and retained as a record.
2. Tactical weapons qualification. The licensee Training and Qualification Plan must describe the firearms used, the firearms qualification program, and other tactical training required to implement the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures. Licensee developed tactical qualification and re-qualification courses must describe the performance criteria needed to include the site specific conditions (such as lighting, elevation, fields-of-fire) under which assigned personnel shall be required to carry-out their assigned duties.
3. Firearms qualification courses. The licensee shall conduct the following qualification courses for each weapon used.
(a) Annual daylight qualification course. Qualifying score must be an accumulated total of 70 percent with handgun and shotgun, and 80 percent with semiautomatic rifle and/or enhanced weapons, of the maximum obtainable target score.
(b) Annual night fire qualification course. Qualifying score must be an accumulated total of 70 percent with handgun and shotgun, and 80 percent with semiautomatic rifle and/or enhanced weapons, of the maximum obtainable target score.
(c) Annual tactical qualification course. Qualifying score must be an accumulated total of 80 percent of the maximum obtainable score.
4. Courses of fire.
(a) Handgun. Armed members of the security organization, assigned duties and responsibilities involving the use of a revolver or semiautomatic pistol shall qualify in accordance with standards established by a law enforcement course, or an equivalent nationally recognized course.
(b) Semiautomatic rifle. Armed members of the security organization, assigned duties and responsibilities involving the use of a semiautomatic rifle shall qualify in accordance with the standards established by a law enforcement course, or an equivalent nationally recognized course.
(c) Shotgun. Armed members of the security organization, assigned duties and responsibilities involving the use of a shotgun shall qualify in accordance with standards established by a law enforcement course, or an equivalent nationally recognized course.
(d) Enhanced weapons. Armed members of the security organization, assigned duties and responsibilities involving the use of any weapon or weapons not described previously shall qualify in accordance with applicable standards established by a law enforcement course or an equivalent nationally recognized course for these weapons.
5. Firearms requalification.
(a) Armed members of the security organization shall be re-qualified for each assigned weapon at least annually in accordance with Commission requirements and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan, and the results documented and retained as a record.
(b) Firearms requalification must be conducted using the courses of fire outlined in paragraphs F.2, F.3, and F.4 of this section.
G. Weapons, Personal Equipment and Maintenance
1. Weapons. The licensee shall provide armed personnel with weapons that are capable of performing the function stated in the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures.
2. Personal equipment.
(a) The licensee shall ensure that each individual is equipped or has ready access to all personal equipment or devices required for the effective implementation of the Commission-approved security plans, licensee protective strategy, and implementing procedures.
(b) The licensee shall provide armed security personnel, required for the effective implementation of the Commission-approved
Safeguards Contingency Plan and implementing procedures, at a minimum, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Gas mask, full face.
(2) Body armor (bullet-resistant vest).
(3) Ammunition/equipment belt.
(4) Two-way portable radios, 2 channels minimum, 1 operating and 1 emergency.
(c) Based upon the licensee protective strategy and the specific duties and responsibilities assigned to each individual, the licensee should provide, as appropriate, but is not limited to, the following.
(1) Flashlights and batteries.
(2) Baton or other non-lethal weapons.
(3) Handcuffs.
(4) Binoculars.
(5) Night vision aids (e.g., goggles, weapons sights).
(6) Hand-fired illumination flares or equivalent.
(7) Duress alarms.
3. Maintenance.
(a) Firearms maintenance program. Each licensee shall implement a firearms maintenance and accountability program in accordance with the Commission regulations and the Commission-approved training and qualification plan. The program must include:
(1) Semiannual test firing for accuracy and functionality.
(2) Firearms maintenance procedures that include cleaning schedules and cleaning requirements.
(3) Program activity documentation.
(4) Control and accountability (weapons and ammunition).
(5) Firearm storage requirements.
(6) Armorer certification.
H. Records
1. The licensee shall retain all reports, records, or other documentation required by this appendix in accordance with the requirements of § 73.55(q).
2. The licensee shall retain each individual's initial qualification record for three (3) years after termination of the individual's employment and shall retain each re-qualification record for three (3) years after it is superseded.
3. The licensee shall document data and test results from each individual's suitability, physical, and psychological qualification and shall retain this documentation as a record for three (3) years from the date of obtaining and recording these results.
I. Reviews
The licensee shall review the Commission-approved training and qualification program in accordance with the requirements of § 73.55(m).
J. Definitions
Terms defined in parts 50, 70, and 73 of this chapter have the same meaning when used in this appendix.
[43 FR 37426, Aug. 23, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 2026, Jan. 8, 1981; 53 FR 405, Jan. 7, 1988; 53 FR 19261, May 27, 1988; 57 FR 33432, July 29, 1992; 57 FR 61787, Dec. 29, 1992; 59 FR 50689, Oct. 5, 1994; 74 FR 13987, Mar. 27, 2009; 77 FR 39910, July 6, 2012; 84 FR 63569, Nov. 18, 2019; 88 FR 15898, Mar. 14, 2023]
Pt. 73, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 73—Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans

# I. Safeguards Contingency Plan
Licensees, applicants, and certificate holders, with the exception of those who are subject to the requirements of § 73.55 shall comply with the requirements of this section.

# Introduction
A licensee safeguards contingency plan is a documented plan to give guidance to licensee personnel in order to accomplish specific defined objectives in the event of threats, thefts, or radiological sabotage relating to special nuclear material or nuclear facilities licensed under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. An acceptable safeguards contingency plan must contain:
(1) A predetermined set of decisions and actions to satisfy stated objectives;
(2) An identification of the data, criteria, procedures, and mechanisms necessary to efficiently implement the decisions; and
(3) A stipulation of the individual, group, or organizational entity responsible for each decision and action.
The goals of licensee safeguards contingency plans for responding to threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage are:
(1) To organize the response effort at the licensee level;
(2) To provide predetermined, structured responses by licensees to safeguards contingencies;
(3) To ensure the integration of the licensee response with the responses by other entities; and
(4) To achieve a measurable performance in response capability.
Licensee safeguards contingency planning should result in organizing the licensee's resources in such a way that the participants will be identified, their several responsibilities specified, and the responses coordinated. The responses should be timely.
It is important to note that a licensee's safeguards contingency plan is intended to be complementary to any emergency plans developed under appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, § 52.17 or § 52.79, or to § 70.22(i) of this chapter.

# contents of the plan
Each licensee safeguards contingency plan shall include five categories of information:
1. Background
2. Generic Planning Base
3. Licensee Planning Base
4. Responsibility Matrix
5. Procedures
Although the implementing procedures (the fifth category of Plan information) are the culmination of the planning process, and therefore are an integral and important part of the safeguards contingency plan, they entail operating details subject to frequent changes. They need not be submitted to the Commission for approval, but will be inspected by NRC staff on a periodic basis. The licensee is responsible for ensuring that the implementing procedures reflect the information in the Responsibility Matrix, appropriately summarized and suitably presented for effective use by the responding entities.
The following paragraphs describe the contents of the safeguards contingency plan.
1.
Background.
Under the following topics, this category of information shall identify and define the perceived dangers and incidents with which the plan will deal and the general way it will handle these:
a. Perceived Danger—A statement of the perceived danger to the security of special nuclear material, licensee personnel, and licensee property, including covert diversion of special nuclear material, radiological sabotage, and overt attacks. The statement of perceived danger should conform with that promulgated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (The statement contained in 10 CFR 73.55(a) or subsequent Commission statements will suffice.)
b. Purpose of the Plan—A discussion of the general aims and operational concepts underlying implementation of the plan.
c. Scope of the Plan—A delineation of the types of incidents covered in the plan.
d. Definitions—A list of terms and their definitions used in describing operational and technical aspects of the plan.
2.
Generic Planning Base.
Under the following topics, this category of information shall define the criteria for initiation and termination of responses to safeguards contingencies together with the specific decisions, actions, and supporting information needed to bring about such responses:
a. Identification of those events that will be used for signaling the beginning or aggravation of a safeguards contingency according to how they are perceived initially by licensee's personnel. Such events may include alarms or other indications signaling penetration of a protected area, vital area, or material access area; material control or material accounting indications of material missing or unaccounted for; or threat indications—either verbal, such as telephoned threats, or implied, such as escalating civil disturbances.
b. Definition of the specific objective to be accomplished relative to each identified event. The objective may be to obtain a level of awareness about the nature and severity of the safeguards contingency in order to prepare for further responses; to establish a level of response preparedness; or to successfully nullify or reduce any adverse safeguards consequences arising from the contingency.
3.
Licensee Planning Base.
This category of information shall include the factors affecting contingency planning that are specific for each facility or means of transportation. To the extent that the topics are treated in adequate detail in the licensee's approved physical security plan, they may be incorporated by cross reference to that plan. The following topics should be addressed:
a. Licensee's Organizational Structure for Contingency Responses—A delineation of the organization's chain of command and delegation of authority as these apply to safeguards contingencies.
b. Physical Layout—(i) Fixed Sites—A description of the physical structures and their location on the site, and a description of the site in relation to nearby town, roads, and other environmental features important to the effective coordination of response operations. Particular emphasis should be placed on main and alternate entry routes for law-enforcement assistance forces and the location of control points for marshalling and coordinating response activities.
(ii) Transportation—A description of the vehicles, shipping routes, preplanned alternate routes, and related features.
c. Safeguards Systems Hardware—A description of the physical security and accounting system hardware that influence how the licensee will respond to an event. Examples of systems to be discussed are communications, alarms, locks, seals, area access, armaments, and surveillance.
d. Law Enforcement Assistance—A listing of available local law enforcement agencies and a description of their response capabilities and their criteria for response; and a discussion of working agreements or arrangements for communicating with these agencies.
e. Policy Constraints and Assumptions—A discussion of State laws, local ordinances, and company policies and practices that govern licensee response to incidents. Examples that may be discussed include:
Use of deadly force;
Use of employee property;
Use of off-duty employees;
Site security jurisdictional boundaries.
f. Administrative and Logistical Considerations—Descriptions of licensee practices that may have an influence on the response
to safeguards contingency events. The considerations shall include a description of the procedures that will be used for ensuring that all equipment needed to effect a successful response to a safeguards contingency will be easily accessible, in good working order, and in sufficient supply to provide redundancy in case of equipment failure.
4.
Responsibility Matrix.
This category of information consists of detailed identification of the organizational entities responsible for each decision and action associated with specific responses to safeguards contingencies. For each initiating event, a tabulation shall be made for each response entity depicting the assignment of responsibilities for all decisions and actions to be taken in response to the initiating event. (Not all entities will have assigned responsibilities for any given initiating event.) The tabulations in the Responsibility Matrix shall provide an overall picture of the response actions and their interrelationships. Safeguards responsibilities shall be assigned in a manner that precludes conflict in duties or responsibilities that would prevent the execution of the plan in any safeguards contingency.
5.
Procedures.
In order to aid execution of the detailed plan as developed in the Responsibility Matrix, this category of information shall detail the actions to be taken and decisions to be made by each member or unit of the organization as planned in the Responsibility Matrix.

# Audit and Review
(1) For nuclear facilities subject to the requirements of § 73.46, the licensee shall provide for a review of the safeguards contingency plan at intervals not to exceed 12 months. For nuclear power reactor licensees subject to the requirements of § 73.55, the licensee shall provide for a review of the safeguards contingency plan either:
(i) At intervals not to exceed 12 months, or
(ii) As necessary, based on an assessment by the licensee against performance indicators, and as soon as reasonably practicable after a change occurs in personnel, procedures, equipment, or facilities that potentially could adversely affect security, but no longer than 12 months after the change. In any case, each element of the safeguards contingency plan must be reviewed at least every 24 months.
(2) A licensee subject to the requirements of either § 73.46 or § 73.55 shall ensure that the review of the safeguards contingency plan is by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The review must include an audit of safeguards contingency procedures and practices, and an audit of commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities.
(3) The licensee shall document the results and the recommendations of the safeguards contingency plan review, management findings on whether the safeguards contingency plan is currently effective, and any actions taken as a result of recommendations from prior reviews in a report to the licensee's plant manager and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for the day-to-day plant operation. The report must be maintained in an auditable form, available for inspection for a period of 3 years.

# II. Nuclear Power Plant Safeguards Contingency Plans

# A. Introduction
The safeguards contingency plan is a documented plan that describes how licensee personnel implement their physical protection program to defend against threats to their facility, up to and including the design basis threat of radiological sabotage. The goals of licensee safeguards contingency plans are:
(1) To organize the response effort at the licensee level;
(2) To provide predetermined, structured response by licensees to safeguards contingencies;
(3) To ensure the integration of the licensee response by other entities; and
(4) To achieve a measurable performance in response capability.
Licensee safeguards contingency planning should result in organizing the licensee's resources in such a way that the participants will be identified, their responsibilities specified, and the responses coordinated. The responses should be timely, and include personnel who are trained and qualified to respond in accordance with a documented training and qualification program.
The evaluation, validation, and testing of this portion of the program shall be conducted in accordance with appendix B, section VI of this part, Nuclear Power Reactor Training and Qualification Plan for Personnel Performing Security Program Duties. The licensee's safeguards contingency plan is intended to maintain effectiveness during the implementation of emergency plans developed under appendix E to part 50 of this chapter.

# B. Contents of the Plan
Each safeguards contingency plan shall include five (5) categories of information:
(1) Background.
(2) Generic planning base.
(3) Licensee planning base.
(4) Responsibility matrix.
(5) Implementing procedures.
Although the implementing procedures (the fifth category of plan information) are the culmination of the planning process, and are an integral and important part of the
safeguards contingency plan, they entail operating details subject to frequent changes. They need not be submitted to the Commission for approval, but are subject to inspection by NRC staff on a periodic basis.
1. Background. This category of information shall identify the perceived dangers and incidents that the plan will address and a general description of how the response is organized.
a. Perceived Danger—Consistent with the design basis threat specified in § 73.1(a)(1), licensees shall identify and describe the perceived dangers, threats, and incidents against which the safeguards contingency plan is designed to protect.
b. Purpose of the Plan—Licensees shall describe the general goals, objectives and operational concepts underlying the implementation of the approved safeguards contingency plan.
c. Scope of the Plan—A delineation of the types of incidents covered by the plan.
(i) How the onsite response effort is organized and coordinated to effectively respond to a safeguards contingency event.
(ii) How the onsite response for safeguards contingency events has been integrated in other site emergency response procedures.
d. Definitions—A list of terms and their definitions used in describing operational and technical aspects of the approved safeguards contingency plan.
2. Generic Planning Base. Licensees shall define the criteria for initiation and termination of responses to security events to include the specific decisions, actions, and supporting information needed to respond to each type of incident covered by the approved safeguards contingency plan. To achieve this result the generic planning base must:
a. Identify those events that will be used for signaling the beginning or aggravation of a safeguards contingency event according to how they are perceived initially by licensee's personnel. Licensees shall ensure detection of unauthorized activities and shall respond to all alarms or other indications signaling a security event, such as penetration of a protected area, vital area, or unauthorized barrier penetration (vehicle or personnel); tampering, bomb threats, or other threat warnings—either verbal, such as telephoned threats, or implied, such as escalating civil disturbances.
b. Define the specific objective to be accomplished relative to each identified safeguards contingency event. The objective may be to obtain a level of awareness about the nature and severity of the safeguards contingency to prepare for further responses; to establish a level of response preparedness; or to successfully nullify or reduce any adverse safeguards consequences arising from the contingency.
c. Identify the data, criteria, procedures, mechanisms and logistical support necessary to achieve the objectives identified.
3. Licensee Planning Base. This category of information shall include factors affecting safeguards contingency planning that are specific for each facility. To the extent that the topics are treated in adequate detail in the licensee's approved physical security plan, they may be incorporated by reference in the Safeguards Contingency Plan. The following topics must be addressed:
a. Organizational Structure. The safeguards contingency plan must describe the organization's chain of command and delegation of authority during safeguards contingency events, to include a general description of how command and control functions will be coordinated and maintained.
b. Physical Layout. The safeguards contingency plan must include a site map depicting the physical structures located on the site, including onsite independent spent fuel storage installations, and a description of the structures depicted on the map. Plans must also include a description and map of the site in relation to nearby towns, transportation routes (e.g., rail, water, and roads), pipelines, airports, hazardous material facilities, and pertinent environmental features that may have an effect upon coordination of response activities. Descriptions and maps must indicate main and alternate entry routes for law enforcement or other offsite response and support agencies and the location for marshaling and coordinating response activities.
c. Safeguards Systems. The safeguards contingency plan must include a description of the physical security systems that support and influence how the licensee will respond to an event in accordance with the design basis threat described in § 73.1(a). The licensee's description shall begin with onsite physical protection measures implemented at the outermost facility perimeter, and must move inward through those measures implemented to protect target set equipment.
(i) Physical security systems and security systems hardware to be discussed include security systems and measures that provide defense-in-depth, such as physical barriers, alarm systems, locks, area access, armaments, surveillance, and communications systems.
(ii) The specific structure of the security response organization to include the total number of armed responders and armed security officers documented in the approved security plans as a component of the protective strategy and a general description of response capabilities shall also be included in the safeguards contingency plan.
(iii) Licensees shall ensure that individuals assigned duties and responsibilities to implement the safeguards contingency plan are trained and qualified in those duties according to the Commission approved security
plans, and the performance evaluation program.
(iv) Armed responders shall be available to respond from designated areas inside the protected area at all times and may not be assigned any other duties or responsibilities that could interfere with assigned armed response team duties and responsibilities.
(v) Licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain a written protective strategy to be documented in procedures that describe in detail the physical protection measures, security systems and deployment of the armed response team relative to site specific conditions, to include but not be limited to, facility layout, and the location of target set equipment and elements. The protective strategy should support the general goals, operational concepts, and performance objectives identified in the licensee's safeguards contingency plan. The protective strategy shall:
(1) Be designed to meet the performance requirements and objectives of § 73.55(a) through (k).
(2) Identify predetermined actions, areas of responsibility and timelines for the deployment of armed personnel.
(3) Contain measures that limit the exposure of security personnel to possible attack, including incorporation of bullet resisting protected positions.
(4) Contain a description of the physical security systems and measures that provide defense-in-depth such as physical barriers, alarm systems, locks, area access, armaments, surveillance, and communications systems.
(5) Describe the specific structure and responsibilities of the armed response organization to include:
The authorized minimum number of armed responders, available at all times inside the protected area.
The authorized minimum number of armed security officers, available onsite at all times.
The total number of armed responders and armed security officers documented in the approved security plans as a component of the protective strategy.
(6) Provide a command and control structure, to include response by off-site law enforcement agencies, which ensures that decisions and actions are coordinated and communicated in a timely manner to facilitate response.
d. Law Enforcement Assistance. Provide a listing of available law enforcement agencies and a general description of their response capabilities and their criteria for response and a discussion of working agreements or arrangements for communicating with these agencies.
e. Policy Constraints and Assumptions. The safeguards contingency plan shall contain a discussion of State laws, local ordinances, and company policies and practices that govern licensee response to incidents and must include, but is not limited to, the following.
(i) Use of deadly force.
(ii) Recall of off-duty employees.
(iii) Site jurisdictional boundaries.
(iv) Use of enhanced weapons, if applicable.
f. Administrative and Logistical Considerations. Descriptions of licensee practices which influence how the security organization responds to a safeguards contingency event to include, but not limited to, a description of the procedures that will be used for ensuring that equipment needed to facilitate response will be readily accessible, in good working order, and in sufficient supply.
4. Responsibility Matrix. This category of information consists of the detailed identification of responsibilities and specific actions to be taken by licensee organizations and/or personnel in response to safeguards contingency events.
a. Licensees shall develop site procedures that consist of matrixes detailing the organization and/or personnel responsible for decisions and actions associated with specific responses to safeguards contingency events. The responsibility matrix and procedures shall be referenced in the licensee's safeguards contingency plan.
b. Responsibility matrix procedures shall be based on the events outlined in the licensee's Generic Planning Base and must include the following information:
(i) The definition of the specific objective to be accomplished relative to each identified safeguards contingency event. The objective may be to obtain a level of awareness about the nature and severity of the safeguards contingency to prepare for further responses, to establish a level of response preparedness, or to successfully nullify or reduce any adverse safeguards consequences arising from the contingency.
(ii) A tabulation for each identified initiating event and each response entity which depicts the assignment of responsibilities for decisions and actions to be taken in response to the initiating event.
(iii) An overall description of response actions and interrelationships specifically associated with each responsible entity must be included.
c. Responsibilities shall be assigned in a manner that precludes conflict of duties and responsibilities that would prevent the execution of the safeguards contingency plan and emergency response plans.
d. Licensees shall ensure that predetermined actions can be completed under the postulated conditions.
5. Implementing Procedures.
(i) Licensees shall establish and maintain written implementing procedures that provide specific guidance and operating details
that identify the actions to be taken and decisions to be made by each member of the security organization who is assigned duties and responsibilities required for the effective implementation of the security plans and the site protective strategy.
(ii) Licensees shall ensure that implementing procedures accurately reflect the information contained in the Responsibility Matrix required by this appendix, the security plans, and other site plans.
(iii) Implementing procedures need not be submitted to the Commission for approval but are subject to inspection.

# C. Records and Reviews
1. Licensees shall review the safeguards contingency plan in accordance with the requirements of § 73.55(m).
2. The safeguards contingency plan audit must include a review of applicable elements of the Physical Security Plan, Training and Qualification Plan, implementing procedures and practices, the site protective strategy, and response agreements made by local, State, and Federal law enforcement authorities.
3. Licensees shall retain all reports, records, or other documentation required by this appendix in accordance with the requirements of § 73.55(q).
(Sec. 161i, Pub. L. 83-703, 68 Stat. 948, secs. 201, 204(b)(1), Pub L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1243, 1245 (42 U.S.C. 2201, 5841, 5844))
[43 FR 11965, Mar. 23, 1978; 43 FR 14007, Apr. 4, 1978, as amended at 57 FR 33432, July 29, 1992; 64 FR 14818, Mar. 29, 1999; 72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007; 74 FR 13991, Mar. 27, 2009; 77 FR 39910, July 6, 2012]
Pt. 73, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 73—Physical Protection of Irradiated Reactor Fuel in Transit, Training Program Subject Schedule
Pursuant to the provision of § 73.37 of 10 CFR part 73, each licensee who transports or delivers to a carrier for transport irradiated reactor fuel is required to assure that individuals used as shipment escorts have completed a training program. The subjects that are to be included in this training program are as follows:

# Security Enroute
—Route planning and selection
—Vehicle operation
—Procedures at stops
—Detours and use of alternate routes

# Communications
—Equipment operation
—Status reporting
—Contacts with law enforcement units
—Communications discipline
—Procedures for reporting incidents

# Radiological Considerations
—Description of the radioactive cargo
—Function and characteristics of the shipping casks
—Radiation hazards
—Federal, State and local ordinances relative to the shipment of radioactive materials
—Responsible agencies

# Response to Contingencies
—Accidents
—Severe weather conditions
—Vehicle breakdown
—Communications problems
—Radioactive “spills”
—Use of special equipment (flares, emergency lighting, etc.)

# Response to Threats
—Reporting
—Calling for assistance
—Use of immobilization features
—Hostage situations
—Avoiding suspicious situations
The licensee is also required to assure that armed individuals serving as shipment escorts, other than members of local law enforcement agencies, have completed a weapons training and qualifications program equivalent to that required of guards, as described in III and IV of appendix B of this part, to assure that each such individual is fully qualified to use weapons assigned him.
[44 FR 34468, June 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 34710, June 3, 1980]
Pt. 73, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 73—Levels of Physical Protection To Be Applied in International Transport of Nuclear Material
1
1
See appendix C to part 110 of this chapter from the physical description of the categories of nuclear material as set forth in Annex I to the Convention. For the purposes of this part, the following categories of nuclear material are synonymous:
Category I is a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material;
Category II is special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or irradiated fuel; and
Category III is special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(Verbatim from Annex I to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material)
(a) Levels of physical protection for nuclear material during storage incidental to international nuclear transport include:
(1) For Category III materials, storage within an area to which access is controlled;
(2) For Category II materials, storage within an area under constant surveillance by guards or electronic devices, surrounded by a physical barrier with a limited number of points of entry under appropriate control or any area with an equivalent level of physical protection;
(3) For Category I material, storage within a protected area as defined for Category II, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons whose trustworthiness has been determined, and which is under surveillance by guards who are in close communication with appropriate response forces. Specific measures taken in this context should have as their objective the detection and prevention of any assault, unauthorized access, or unauthorized removal of material.
(b) Levels of physical protection for nuclear material during international transport include:
(1) For Category II and III materials, transportation shall take place under special precautions including prior arrangements among sender, receiver, and carrier, and prior agreement between natural or legal persons subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of exporting and importing States, specifying time, place and procedures for transferring transport responsibility;
(2) For Category I materials, transportation shall take place under special precautions identified for transportation of Category II and III materials, and in addition, under constant surveillance by escorts and under conditions which assure close communication with appropriate response forces;
(3) For natural uranium other than in the form of ore or ore residue, transportation protection for quantities exceeding 500 kilograms U shall include advance notification of shipment specifying mode of transport, expected time of arrival and [shall provide for] confirmation of receipt of shipment.
[52 FR 9654, Mar. 26, 1987]
Pt. 73, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 73—Countries and Organizations That Are Parties to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
1
1
An updated list of party countries and organizations will appear annually in the International Atomic Energy Agency's publication, Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, at
https://www-legacy.iaea.org/Publications/Documents/Conventions/cppnm_status.pdf
. Appendix F will be amended as required to maintain its currency.

# Countries/Organizations
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Rep. of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Eswatini
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Republic of
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao P.D.R.
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
The frmr. Yug. Rep. of Macedonia
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of Tanzania
United States of America
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
EURATOM
[83 FR 58465, Nov. 20, 2018]
Appendix G to Part 73 [Reserved]
Pt. 73, App. H

# Appendix H to Part 73—Weapons Qualification Criteria
The B-27 Target or a target of equivalent difficulty will be used for all weapon qualification testing.
Table H-1—Minimum Day Firing Criteria
1
[see footnotes at end of Table H-1]
Weapon
Stage
String
2
Distance
Number of rounds
Timing
3
Position
Scoring
Handgun
1
1
2
3
3 yards
6
9 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds (repeat 2 times) 3 seconds each string
Minimum qualifying = 70%.
2
1
2
7 yards
6
10 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds at center mass and 1 round at the head (repeat once) 5 seconds each string
3
1
2
3
7 yards
6
12 seconds (4 seconds each string)
Using weaker hand only, from the low ready position, fire 2 rounds (repeat twice)
4
1
10 yards
2
4 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds, come to low ready position
2
10 yards
2
3 seconds
Fire 2 rounds from low ready position and reholster
3
10 yards
4
12 seconds (revolver) 10 seconds (semiautomatic)
Draw and fire 2 rounds, reload, fire 2 rounds and reholster
4
10 yards
2
4 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds, come to low ready position
5
10 yards
2
3 seconds
Fire 2 rounds from low ready position and reholster
5
1
15 yards
2
5 seconds
Standing, draw weapon, move to kneeling position, then fire 2 rounds and reholster
2
15 yards
2
5 seconds
Standing, draw weapon, move to kneeling position, then fire 2 rounds and reholster
5
3
15 yards
4
14 seconds (revolver) 12 seconds (semiautomatic)
Standing, draw weapon, fire 2 rounds, move to kneeling position and fire 2 rounds, reload and reholster
Minimum qualifying = 70%.
4
15 yards
2
5 seconds
Draw weapon and fire 2 rounds standing, come to low ready position and...
5
15 yards
2
3 seconds
Fire 2 rounds from low ready
6
1
25 yards
2
5 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds, standing, left side of barricade
2
25 yards
2
5 seconds
Draw and fire 2 rounds, right side of barricade (standing)
3
25 yards
4
15 seconds (revolver) 12 seconds (semi-automatic)
Draw weapon and move from standing to kneeling position, fire 2 rounds, left side of barricade, reload, and from the kneeling position, fire 2 rounds, right side of barricade
4
25 yards
2
10 seconds
Draw weapon and move from standing to prone, fire 2 rounds
5
25 yards
2
10 seconds
Draw weapon and move from standing to prone, fire 2 rounds
7
1
50 yards
2
8 seconds
Draw weapon and fire 2 rounds from a standing barricade position (right or left side, shooter's option)
2
50 yards
2
10 seconds
Draw weapon and fire 2 rounds from a kneeling barricade position (right or left side, shooter's option)
3
50 yards
2
12 seconds
Draw weapon and fire 2 rounds from prone position
Shotgun
1
1
7 yards
2 Double 0 buck-shot
4 seconds
At low ready position fire 2 rounds standing
Minimum qualifying = 70%.
2
1
2
15 yards
4 Double 0 buck-shot
15 seconds
At low ready position fire 2 rounds standing, reload and fire 2 rounds
3
1
2
25 yards
4 rifled slugs or 00 buck-shot
20 seconds
On command, load 4 rounds and fire 2 rounds standing and 2 rounds kneeling
Rifle
1
1
2
3
15 yards
6
10 seconds (4 seconds for 1st string, 3 seconds for each of 2nd and 3rd string)
Standing in low ready position, move to standing point shoulder position (1 magazine loaded with 6 rounds, weapon in half-load configuration), fire 2 rounds per string
Minimum qualifying = 70%.
2
1
2
3
25 yards
6
11 seconds (5 seconds for 1st string, 3 seconds for each of 2nd and 3rd string)
Standing in low ready position, move to standing point shoulder position (1 magazine loaded with 6 rounds, weapon in half-load configuration), fire 2 rounds per string
3
1
2
3
25 yards
6
17 seconds (7 seconds for 1st string, 5 seconds for each of 2nd and 3rd string)
Standing in low ready position, move to kneeling point shoulder position (1 magazine loaded with 6 rounds, weapon in half-load configuration), fire 2 rounds per string
4
1
2
50 yards
4
16 seconds (9 seconds for 1st string, 7 second for 2nd string)
Standing in low ready position, move to kneeling point shoulder position (1 magazine loaded with 4 rounds, weapon in half-load configuration), fire 2 rounds per string
4
5
1
50 yards
4
20 seconds
Standing in low ready position, move to prone (weapon in half-load configuration) with two magazines each loaded with 2 rounds, fire 2 rounds, reload with 2nd magazine and fire 2 rounds
Minimum qualifying = 70%.
4
6
1
100 yards
4
25 seconds
Standing in low ready position, move to prone (weapon in half-load configuration) two magazines each loaded with 2 rounds, fire 2 rounds, reload with 2nd magazine and fire 2 rounds
Footnotes:
1
This day firing qualifications course is to be used by all TRT members, armed response personnel, and guards.
2
A string is one of the different phases within a single stage.
3
Security personnel will be timed as shown.
4
Stages 5 and 6 are to be used for .30 caliber or larger rifles.
Table H-2—Minimum Night Firing Criteria
Weapon
Stage
Distance
No. of rounds
Timing
Position
Scoring
Lighting
Handgun (Rev.)
1
7 yds
12
35 seconds
Standing-no artificial support
Minimum qualifying = 70%
For all courses 0.2 footcandles at center mass of target area.
2
15 yds
12
45 seconds
Handgun (Semi-)
1
7 yds
2 + clip
30 seconds
Standing-no artificial support
2
15 yds
2 + clip
40 seconds
Shotgun
1
25 yds
2 rifled slugs
30 seconds (Load 2 slugs—chamber empty—Time starts—Commence firing)
Standing-strong shoulder
Rifled slug hits = strike area on target (10, 9, 7)
1
15 yds
5 Double 0 buckshot
10 seconds (Load 5rds Buckshot—chamber, empty—Time starts—Commence firing)
Standing-strong shoulder
Double 0 Buckshot: Hits in black = 2 pts (5rds × 9 pellets/rd × 2 pts = 90) Minimum qualifying = 70%
Rifle
1
25 yds
1-5rd mag
45 sec
Standing-barricade
Minimum qualifying = 70%
2
25 yds
1-5rd mag
45 sec
Standing
3
25 yds
1-5rd mag
45 sec
Kneeling
4
25 yds
1-5rd mag
45 sec
Prone
Note. All firing is to be done only at night. Use of night simulation equipment during daylight is not allowable. Use of site specific devices (
i.e.
, laser, etc.) should be included in the licensee amended security plan for NRC approval.
[58 FR 45785, Aug. 31, 1993]
Pt. 74

# PART 74—MATERIAL CONTROL AND ACCOUNTING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
74.1
Purpose.
74.2
Scope.
74.4
Definitions.
74.5
Interpretations.
74.6
Communications.
74.7
Specific exemptions.
74.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Subpart B—General Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
74.11
Reports of loss or theft or attempted theft or unauthorized production of special nuclear material.
74.13
Material status reports.
74.15
Nuclear material transaction reports.
74.17
Special nuclear material physical inventory summary report.
74.19
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart C—Special Nuclear Material of Low Strategic Significance
74.31
Nuclear material control and accounting for special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
74.33
Nuclear material control and accounting for uranium enrichment facilities authorized to produce special nuclear material of low strategic significance.

# Subpart D—Special Nuclear Material of Moderate Strategic Significance
74.41
Nuclear material control and accounting for special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance.
74.43
Internal controls, inventory, and records.
74.45
Measurements and measurement control.

# Subpart E—Formula Quantities of Strategic Special Nuclear Material
74.51
Nuclear material control and accounting for strategic special nuclear material.
74.53
Process monitoring.
74.55
Item monitoring.
74.57
Alarm resolution.
74.59
Quality assurance and accounting requirements.

# Subpart F—Enforcement
74.81
Inspections.
74.82
Tests.
74.83
Violations.
74.84
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 57, 161, 182, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2077, 2201, 2232, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 74.1
Purpose.
(a) This part has been established to contain the requirements for the control and accounting of special nuclear material at fixed sites and for documenting the transfer of special nuclear material. General reporting requirements as well as specific requirements for certain licensees possessing special
nuclear material of low strategic significance, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, and formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material are included. Requirements for the control and accounting of source material at enrichment facilities are also included.
(b) The general conditions and procedures for the submittal of a license application for the activities covered in this part are detailed in § 70.22 of this chapter.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55998, Oct. 31, 1991; 67 FR 78144, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.2
Scope.
(a) The general reporting and recordkeeping requirements of subpart B of this part apply to each person licensed under this chapter who possesses special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium; or who transfers or receives a quantity of special nuclear material of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium. The general reporting and recordkeeping requirements of subpart B of this part do not apply to licensees whose MC
A reporting and recordkeeping requirements are covered by §§ 72.72, 72.76, and 72.78 of this chapter.
(b) In addition, specific control and accounting requirements are included in subparts C, D, and E for certain licensees who:
(1) Possess and use formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material;
(2) Possess and use special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance;
(3) Possess and use special nuclear material of low strategic significance; or
(4) Possess uranium source material and equipment capable of producing enriched uranium.
(c) As provided in part 76 of this chapter, the regulations of this part establish procedures and criteria for material control and accounting for the issuance of a certificate of compliance or the approval of a compliance plan.
[67 FR 78144, Dec. 23, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008]
§ 74.4
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Abrupt loss
means a loss occurring in the time interval between consecutive sequential performances of a material control test which is designed to detect anomalies potentially indicative of a loss of strategic special nuclear material from a specific unit of SSNM (
i.e.
, a quantity characterized by a unique measurement) introduced into a process.
Accessible location
means a process location at which SSNM could be acquired without leaving evidence of the acquisition,
i.e.
, without tools or other equipment to obviously violate the integrity of the containment.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), including any amendments thereto.
Active inventory
means the sum of additions to inventory, beginning inventory, ending inventory, and removals from inventory, after all common terms have been excluded. Common terms are any material values which appear in the active inventory calculation more than once and come from the same measurement.
Additions to material in process
means: (1) Receipts that are opened, except for receipts opened only for sampling and subsequently maintained under tamper-safing; (2) opened sealed sources; and (3) material removed from process for nonconformance with chemical or physical specifications that is subsequently reprocessed, measured for contained SSNM, and reintroduced to process.
Alarm Threshold
means a predetermined quantity of SSNM calculated from the specified probability of detection for a given loss and the standard deviation associated with a material control test. An alarm threshold serves to trigger a response action.
Batch
means a portion of source material or special nuclear material handled as a unit for accounting purposes at a key measurement point and for which the composition and quantity are defined by a single set of measurements. The source material or special nuclear material may be in bulk form or contained in a number of separate items.
Beginning inventory (BI)
means the book inventory quantity at the beginning of an inventory period, and is the reconciled physical inventory entered into the books as an adjusted inventory at the completion of the prior inventory period.
Bias
means the deviation of the expected value of a random variable from the corresponding correct or assigned value.
Calibration
means the process of determining the numerical relationship between the observed output of a measurement system and the value, based upon reference standards, of the characteristic being measured.
Category IA material
means SSNM directly useable in the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device, except if:
(1) The dimensions are large enough (at least two meters in one dimension, greater than one meter in each of two dimensions, or greater than 25cm in each of three dimensions) to preclude hiding the item on an individual;
(2) The total weight of an encapsulated item of SSNM is such that it cannot be carried inconspicuously by one person (
i.e.,
at least 50 kilograms gross weight); or
(3) The quantity of SSNM (less than 0.05 formula kilograms) in each container requires protracted diversions to accumulate five formula kilograms.
Category IB material
means all SSNM material other than Category IA.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Continuous process
means a unit process in which feed material must be introduced in a systematic manner in order to maintain equilibrium conditions.
Controlled access area
means any temporarily or permanently established area which is clearly demarcated, access to which is controlled, and which affords isolation of the material or persons within it.
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy or its duly authorized representatives.
Effective kilograms of special nuclear material
means:
(1) For plutonium and uranium-233 their weight in kilograms;
(2) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U
235
of 0.01 (1 percent) and above, its element weight in kilograms multiplied by the square of its enrichment expressed as a decimal weight fraction; and
(3) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U
235
below 0.01 (1 percent), its element weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.0001.
Element
means uranium or plutonium.
Estimate
means a specific numerical value arrived at by the application of an estimator.
Estimator
means a function of a sample measurement used to estimate a population parameter.
Fissile isotope
means: (1) Uranium U-233, or (2) uranium-235 by enrichment category, (3) plutonium-239, and (4) plutonium-241.
Formula kilogram
means SSNM in any combination in a quantity of 1000 grams computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium).
Formula quantity
means strategic special nuclear material in any combination in a quantity of 5,000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U
235
) + 2.5 (grams U
233
+ grams plutonium).
Government agency
means any executive department, commission, independent establishment, corporation, wholly or partly owned by the United States of America, which is an instrumentality of the United States, or any board, bureau, division, service, office, officer, authority, administration, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government.
High enriched uranium
means uranium enriched to 20 percent or greater in the isotope uranium-235.
Inventory difference (ID)
means the arithmetic difference obtained by subtracting the quantity of SNM tabulated from a physical inventory from the book inventory quantity. Book inventory quantity is equivalent to the beginning inventory (BI) plus additions to inventory (A) minus removals from
inventory (R), while the physical inventory quantity is the ending inventory (EI) for the material balance period in question (as physically determined). Thus mathematically, ID = (BI + A−R) −EI or ID = BI + A−R−EI
Item
means any discrete quantity or container of special nuclear material or source material, not undergoing processing, having an unique identity and also having an assigned element and isotope quantity.
License,
except where otherwise specified, means a license issued pursuant to part 70 of this chapter.
Low enriched uranium
means uranium enriched below 20 percent in the isotope uranium-235.
Material
means special nuclear material.
Material access area
means any location which contains special nuclear material, within a vault or a building, the roof, walls, and floor of which constitute a physical barrier.
Material balance
means the determination of an inventory difference (ID).
MC
A alarm
means a situation in which there is: (1) an out-of-location item or an item whose integrity has been violated, (2) an indication of a flow of SSNM where there should be none, or (3) a difference between a measured or observed amount or property of material and its corresponding predicted or property value that exceeds a threshold established to provide the detection capability required by § 74.53.
Material control test
means a comparison of a pre-established alarm threshold with the results of a process difference or process yield performed on a unit process.
Material in process
means any special nuclear material possessed by the licensee except in unopened receipts, sealed sources, measured waste discards, and ultimate product maintained under tamper-safing.
Measurement
includes sampling and means the determination of mass, volume, quantity, composition or other property of a material where such determinations are used for special nuclear material control and accounting purposes.
Measurement system
means all of the apparatus, equipment, instruments and procedures used in performing a measurement.
Person
means:
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy, except that the Department of Energy shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1244), any state or any political subdivision of or any political entity within a state, any foreign government or nation or political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and
(2) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Physical inventory
means determination on a measured basis of the quantity of special nuclear material on hand at a given time. The methods of physical inventory and associated measurements will vary depending on the material to be inventoried and the process involved.
Plant
means a set of processes or operations (on the same site, but not necessarily all in the same building) coordinated into a single manufacturing, R
D, or testing effort. A scrap recovery operation, or an analytical laboratory, serving both onsite and offsite customers (or more than one onsite manufacturing effort) should be treated as a separate plant.
Power of detection
means the probability that the critical value of a statistical test will be exceeded when there is an actual loss of a specific SSNM quantity.
Process difference
(PD) means the determination of an ID on a unit process level with the additional qualification that difficult to measure components may be modeled.
Process yield
means the quantity of SSNM actually removed from a unit process compared with the quantity predicted (based on a measured input) to be available for removal. Process
yield differs from a process difference in that holdup and sidestreams are not measured or modeled.
Produce
when used in relation to special nuclear material, means: (1) To manufacture, make, produce, or refine special nuclear material; (2) to separate special nuclear material from other substances in which such material may be contained; or (3) to make or to produce new special nuclear material.
Random error
means the deviation of a random variable from its expected value.
Receipt
means special nuclear material received by a licensee from an off-site source.
Reconciliation
means the process of evaluating and comparing licensee reports required under this part to the projected material balances generated by the Nuclear Materials Management and Safeguards System. This process is considered complete when the licensee resolves any differences between the reported and projected balances, including those listed for foreign obligated materials.
Reference standard
means a material, device, or instrument whose assigned value is known relative to national standards or nationally accepted measurement systems. This is also commonly referred to as a traceable standard.
Removals from inventory
means measured quantities of special nuclear material contained in:
(1) Shipments;
(2) Waste materials transferred to an onsite holding account via a DOE/NRC Form 741 transaction;
(3) Measured discards transported offsite; and
(4) Effluents released to the environment.
Removals of material from process
(or
removals from process
) means measured quantities of special nuclear material contained in:
(1) Effluents released to the environment;
(2) Previously unencapsulated materials that have been encapsulated as sealed sources;
(3) Waste materials that will not be subject to further onsite processing and which are under tamper-safing;
(4) Ultimate product placed under tamper-safing; and
(5) Any materials (not previously designated as removals from process) shipped offsite.
Research and development
means: (1) Theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation; or (2) the extension of investigative findings and theories of a scientific or technical nature into practical application for experimental and demonstration purposes, including the experimental production and testing of models, devices, equipment, materials, and processes.
Scrap
means the various forms of special nuclear material generated during chemical and mechanical processing, other than recycle material and normal process intermediates, which are unsuitable for continued processing, but all or part of which will be converted to useable material by appropriate recovery operations.
Sealed source
means any special nuclear material that is physically encased in a capsule, rod, element, etc. that prevents the leakage or escape of the special nuclear material and that prevents removal of the special nuclear material without penetration of the casing.
Source material
means source material as defined in section 11z. of the Act and in the regulations contained in part 40 of this chapter.
Special nuclear material
means:
(1) Plutonium, uranium-233, uranium enriched in the isotope U
233
or in the isotope U
235
, and any other material which the Commission, pursuant to the provisions of section 51 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, determines to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or
(2) Any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, but does not include source material.
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than an amount of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, but more than 15 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U
235
isotope) or 15 grams of uranium-233 or 15 grams of plutonium or the combination of 15 grams when computed by the
equation, grams = grams contained U
235
+ grams plutonium + grams U
233
; or
(2) Less than 10,000 grams but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more, but less than 20 percent in the U
235
isotope); or
(3) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched above natural, but less than 10 percent in the U
235
isotope.
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U
235
isotope) or more than 500 grams of uranium-233 or plutonium or in a combined quantity of more than 1,000 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U
235
) + 2 (grams U
233
+ grams plutonium); or
(2) 10,000 grams or more or uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U
235
isotope).
Standard Error of the Inventory Difference
(SEID) means the standard deviation of an inventory difference that takes into account all measurement error contributions to the components of the ID.
Standard Error of the Process Difference
means the standard deviation of a process difference value that takes into account both measurement and nonmeasurement contributions to the components of PD.
Strategic special nuclear material
means uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U
235
isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium.
Tamper-safing
means the use of devices on containers or vaults in a manner and at a time that ensures a clear indication of any violation of the integrity of previously made measurements of special nuclear material within the container or vault.
Traceability
means the ability to relate individual measurement results to national standards or nationally accepted measurement systems through an unbroken chain of comparisons.
Ultimate product
means any special nuclear material in the form of a product that would not be further processed at that licensed location.
Unit process
means an identifiable segment or segments of processing activities for which the amounts of input and output SSNM are based on measurements.
Unopened receipts
means receipts not opened by the licensee, including receipts of sealed sources, and receipts opened only for sampling and subsequently maintained under tamper-safing.
Vault
means a windowless enclosure with walls, floor, roof and door(s) designed and constructed to delay penetration from forced entry.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 10039, Mar. 30, 1987; 56 FR 55998, Oct. 31, 1991; 67 FR 78144, Dec. 23, 2002; 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008; 80 FR 45844, Aug. 3, 2015]
§ 74.5
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretations of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized as binding on the Commission.
§ 74.6
Communications.
Any communication or report concerning the regulations in this part and any application filed under these regulations may be submitted to the Commission as follows:
(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland.
(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 4112, Feb. 12, 1988; 53 FR 43422, Oct. 27, 1988; 68 FR 58821, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 74.7
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest.
§ 74.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information if it does not display a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0123.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 74.7, 74.11, 74.13, 74.15, 74.17, 74.19, 74.31, 74.33, 74.41, 74.43, 74.45, 74.51, 74.57, and 74.59.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In § 74.15, DOE/NRC Form-741 is approved under Control No. 3150-0003.
(2) In § 74.13, DOE/NRC Form-742 is approved under Control No. 3150-0004.
(3) In § 74.13, DOE/NRC Form-742C is approved under Control No. 3150-0058.
(4) In § 74.17, NRC Form 327 is approved under Control No. 3150-0139.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987; 52 FR 19305, May 22, 1987; 56 FR 55998, Oct. 31, 1991; 62 FR 52189, Oct. 6, 1997; 67 FR 78144, Dec. 23, 2002; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Subpart B—General Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
§ 74.11
Reports of loss or theft or attempted theft or unauthorized production of special nuclear material.
(a) Each licensee who possesses one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall notify the NRC Operations Center within 1 hour of discovery of any loss or theft or other unlawful diversion of special nuclear material which the licensee is licensed to possess, or any incident in which an attempt has been made to commit a theft or unlawful diversion of special nuclear material. The requirement to report within 1 hour of discovery does not pertain to measured quantities of special nuclear material disposed of as discards or inventory difference quantities. Each licensee who operates an uranium enrichment facility shall notify the NRC Operations Center within 1 hour of discovery of any unauthorized production of enriched uranium. For centrifuge enrichment facilities the requirement to report enrichment levels greater than that authorized by license within 1 hour does not apply to each cascade during its start-up process, not to exceed the first 24 hours.
(b) This notification must be made to the NRC Operations Center via the Emergency Notification System if the licensee is party to that system. If the Emergency Notification System is inoperative or unavailable, the licensee shall make the required notification via commercial telephonic service or other dedicated telephonic system or any other method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Operations Center within one hour. The exemption of § 73.22(f)(3) applies to all telephonic reports required by this section.
(c) Notifications required under § 73.1200 of this chapter need not be duplicated under the requirements of this section.
[52 FR 21659, June 9, 1987; 52 FR 23257, June 18, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 55998, Oct. 31, 1991, 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016; 88 FR 15899, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 74.13
Material status reports.
(a) Each licensee, including nuclear reactor licensees as defined in §§ 50.21 and 50.22 of this chapter, possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, special nuclear material in a quantity totaling one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall complete and submit, in computer-readable format Material Balance Reports concerning special nuclear material that the licensee has received, produced, possessed, transferred, consumed, disposed, or lost. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC form 742 which has been previously submitted in paper form. The Physical Inventory Listing Report must be submitted with each Material Balance Report. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742C which has been previously submitted in paper form. Reports must be submitted for each Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) account including all holding accounts. Each licensee shall prepare and submit the reports described in this paragraph as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of these instructions may be obtained from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to
RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.
Each licensee subject to the requirements of § 74.51 shall compile a report as of March 31 and September 30 of each year and file it within 30 days after the end of the period covered by the report. Licensees subject to the requirements of §§ 74.19(c), 74.31(c)(5), 74.33(c)(4), or 74.43(c)(6) shall submit a report within 60 calendar days of the beginning of the physical inventory. All other licensees shall submit a report no later than March 31 of each year. The Commission may permit a licensee to submit the reports at other times for good cause. Each licensee required to report material balance, and inventory information, as detailed in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC.
(b) Any licensee who is required to submit routine Material Status Reports pursuant to § 75.35 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit these reports only as provided in that section (instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section).
[67 FR 78144, Dec. 23, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 74.15
Nuclear material transaction reports.
(a) Each licensee who transfers or receives special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall complete in computer-readable format a Nuclear Material Transaction Report. In addition, each licensee who adjusts the inventory in any manner, other than for transfers and receipts, shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report, in computer-readable format, to coincide with the submission of the Material Balance report. This shall be done as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of these instructions NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees” may be obtained either by writing the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to
RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.
Each licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next
working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. This prescribed computer-readable format replaces the DOE/NRC Form 741 which has been previously submitted in paper form.
(b) Each licensee who receives 1 gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium from a foreign source shall:
(1) Complete in computer-readable format both the supplier's and receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report;
(2) Perform independent tests to assure the accurate identification and measurement of the material received, including its weight and enrichment; and
(3) Indicate the results of these tests on the receiver's portion of the form.
(c) Each licensee who ships special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium to foreign recipient shall complete in computer-readable format the supplier's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report. The licensee shall complete the receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report only if a significant shipper-receiver difference as described in §§ 74.31, 74.43, or 74.59, as applicable, is identified.
(d) Any licensee who is required to submit inventory change reports pursuant to § 75.34 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit these reports only as provided in that section (instead of as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section).
[59 FR 35621, July 13, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 58821, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 32464, June 9, 2008; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 74.17
Special nuclear material physical inventory summary report.
(a) Each licensee subject to the requirements of §§ 74.31 or 74.33 of this part shall submit a completed Special Nuclear Material Physical Inventory Summary Report on NRC Form 327 not later than 60 calendar days from the start of each physical inventory required by §§ 74.31(c)(5) or 74.33(c)(4). Using an appropriate method listed in § 74.6, the licensee shall report the inventory results by plant and total facility to the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards.
(b) Each licensee subject to the requirements of § 74.41(a) of this part shall submit a completed Special Nuclear Material Physical Inventory Summary Report on NRC form 327 not later than 60 calendar days from the start of each physical inventory required by § 74.43(c)(7). Using an appropriate method listed in § 74.6, the licensee shall report the inventory results by plant and total facility to the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards.
(c) Each licensee subject to the requirements of § 74.51 shall submit a completed Special Nuclear Material Physical Inventory Summary Report on NRC form 327 not later than 45 calendar days from the start of each physical inventory required by § 74.59(f). The licensee shall report the physical inventory results by plant and total facility to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
[67 FR 78145, Dec. 23, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 58821, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 74.19
Recordkeeping
(a) Licensees subject to the recordkeeping requirements of §§ 74.31, 74.33, 74.43, or 74.59 of this part are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Otherwise:
(1) Each licensee shall keep records showing the receipt, inventory (including location and unique identity), acquisition, transfer, and disposal of all special nuclear material in its possession regardless of its origin or method of acquisition.
(2) Each record relating to material control or material accounting that is required by the regulations in this chapter or by license condition must be maintained and retained for the period specified by the appropriate regulation
or license condition. If a retention period is not otherwise specified by regulation or license condition, the licensee shall retain the record until the Commission terminates the license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement.
(3) Each record of receipt, acquisition, or physical inventory of special nuclear material that must be maintained pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be retained as long as the licensee retains possession of the material and for 3 years following transfer or disposal of the material.
(4) Each record of transfer of special nuclear material to other persons must be retained by the licensee who transferred the material until the Commission terminates the license authorizing the licensee's possession of the material.
(b) Each licensee that is authorized to possess special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding one effective kilogram at any one time shall establish, maintain, and follow written material control and accounting procedures that are sufficient to enable the licensee to account for the special nuclear material in its possession under license. The licensee shall retain these procedures until the Commission terminates the license that authorizes possession of the material and retain any superseded portion of the procedures for 3 years after the portion is superseded.
(c) Other than licensees subject to §§ 74.31, 74.33, 74.41, or 74.51, each licensee who is authorized to possess special nuclear material, at any one time and site location, in a quantity greater than 350 grams of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium, or any combination thereof, shall conduct a physical inventory of all special nuclear material in its possession under license at intervals not to exceed 12 months. The results of these physical inventories need not be reported to the Commission, but the licensee shall retain the records associated with each physical inventory until the Commission terminates the license that authorized the possession of special nuclear material.
(d) Records that must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform if the reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, or specifications must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[67 FR 78145, Dec. 23, 2002]

# Subpart C—Special Nuclear Material of Low Strategic Significance
§ 74.31
Nuclear material control and accounting for special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(a)
General performance objectives.
Each licensee who is authorized to possess and use more than one effective kilogram of special nuclear material of low strategic significance, excluding sealed sources, at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the licensee, other than a production or utilization facility licensed pursuant to part 50 or 70 of this chapter, or operations involved in waste disposal, shall implement and maintain a Commission approved material control and accounting system that will achieve the following objectives:
(1) Confirm the presence of special nuclear material;
(2) Resolve indications of missing material; and
(3) Aid in the investigation and recovery of missing material.
(b)
Implementation.
Each applicant for a license, and each licensee that, upon application for modification of its license, would become newly subject to the performance objectives of paragraph (a) of this section, shall submit a fundamental nuclear material control (FNMC) plan describing how the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section will be met. The FNMC plan shall be implemented when a license is
issued or modified to authorize the activities being addressed in paragraph (a) of this section, or by the date specified in a license condition.
(c)
System capabilities.
To meet the general performance objectives of paragraph (a) of this section, the material control and accounting system must include the capabilities described in paragraph (c) (1) through (8) of this section. The licensee shall:
(1) Establish, document, and maintain a management structure which assures clear overall responsibility for material control and accounting functions, independence from production responsibilities, separation of key responsibilities, and adequate review and use of critical material control and accounting procedures;
(2) Establish and maintain a measurement system which assures that all quantities in the material accounting records are based on measured values;
(3) Follow a measurement control program which assures that measurement bias is estimated and significant biases are eliminated from inventory difference values of record;
(4) In each inventory period, control total material control and accounting measurement uncertainty so that twice its standard error is less than the greater of 9,000 grams of U-235 or 0.25 percent of the active inventory, and assure that any measurement performed under contract is controlled so that the licensee can satisfy this requirement;
(5) Unless otherwise required to satisfy part 75 of this chapter, perform a physical inventory at least every 12 months and, within 60 days after the start of the inventory, reconcile and adjust the book inventory to the results of the physical inventory, and resolve, or report an inability to resolve, any inventory difference which is rejected by a statistical test which has a 90 percent power of detecting a discrepancy of a quantity of uranium-235 established by NRC on a site-specific basis;
(6) Maintain current knowledge of items when the sum of the time of existence of an item, the time to make a record of the item, and the time necessary to locate the item exceeds 14 days. Store and handle, or subsequently measure, items in a manner so that unauthorized removals of substantial quantities of material from items will be detected. Exempted are items individually containing less than 500 grams of U
235
up to a total of 50 kilograms of U
235
, solutions with a concentration of less than 5 grams of U
235
per liter, and items of waste destined for burial or incineration;
(7) Resolve, on a shipment basis and when required to satisfy part 75 of this chapter, on a batch basis, shipper/receiver differences that exceed both twice the combined measurement standard error for that shipment and 500 grams of U
235
; and
(8) Independently assess the effectiveness of the material control and accounting system at least every 24 months, and document management's action on prior assessment recommendations.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each licensee shall establish records that will demonstrate that the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section have been met and maintain these records for at least 3 years, unless a longer retention time is required by part 75 of this chapter.
(2) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform if such reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures.
The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 19262, May 27, 1988; 56 FR 55998, Oct. 31, 1991; 67 FR 78145, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.33
Nuclear material control and accounting for uranium enrichment facilities authorized to produce special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(a)
General performance objectives.
Each licensee who is authorized by this chapter to possess equipment capable of enriching uranium or operate an enrichment facility, and produce, possess, or use more than one effective kilogram of special nuclear material of low strategic significance at any site or contiguous sites, subject to control by the licensee, shall establish, implement, and maintain a NRC-approved material control and accounting system that will achieve the following objectives:
(1) Maintain accurate, current, and reliable information of and periodically confirm the quantities and locations of source material and special nuclear material in the licensee's possession;
(2) Protect against and detect production of uranium enriched to 10 percent or more in the isotope U
235
;
(3) Protect against and detect unauthorized production of uranium of low strategic significance;
(4) Resolve indications of missing uranium;
(5) Resolve indications of production of uranium enriched to 10 percent or more in the isotope U
235
(for centrifuge enrichment facilities this requirement does not apply to each cascade during its start-up process, not to exceed the first 24 hours);
(6) Resolve indications of unauthorized production of uranium of low strategic significance;
(7) Provide information to aid in the investigation of missing uranium;
(8) Provide information to aid in the investigation of the production of uranium enriched to 10 percent or more in the isotope U
235
; and
(9) Provide information to aid in the investigation of unauthorized production of uranium of low strategic significance.
(b)
Implementation dates.
Each applicant for a license who would, upon issuance of a license pursuant to any part of this chapter, be subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Submit a fundamental nuclear material control plan describing how the performance objectives of § 74.33(a), the system features and capabilities of § 74.33(c), and the recordkeeping requirements of § 74.33(d) will be met; and
(2) Implement the NRC approved plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section prior to:
(i) The cumulative receipt of 5,000 grams of U
235
contained in any combination of natural, depleted, or enriched uranium or
(ii) NRC's issuance of a license to test or operate the enrichment facility; whichever occurs first.
(c)
System features and capabilities.
To meet the general performance objectives of paragraph (a) of this section, the Material Control and Accounting (MC
A) system must include the features and capabilities described in paragraphs (c) (1) through (8) of this section. The licensee shall establish, document, and maintain:
(1) A management structure that ensures:
(i) Clear overall responsibility for MC
A functions;
(ii) Independence of MC
A management from production responsibilities;
(iii) Separation of key MC
A responsibilities from each other; and
(iv) Use of approved written MC
A procedures and periodic review of those procedures;
(2) A measurement program that ensures that all quantities of source material and special nuclear material in the accounting records are based on measured values;
(3) A measurement control program that ensures that:
(i) Measurement bias is estimated and minimized through the measurement control program, and any significant biases are eliminated from inventory difference values of record;
(ii) All MC
A measurement systems are controlled so that twice the standard error of the inventory difference, based on all measurement error contributions, is less than the greater of 5,000 grams of U
235
or 0.25 percent of the U
235
of the active inventory for each total plant material balance; and
(iii) Any measurements performed under contract are controlled so that
the licensee can satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section;
(4) A physical inventory program that provides for:
(i) Performing, unless otherwise required to satisfy part 75 of this chapter, a dynamic (nonshutdown) physical inventory of in-process (e.g., in the enrichment equipment) uranium and U
235
at least every 65 days, and performing a static physical inventory of all other uranium and total U
235
contained in natural, depleted, and enriched uranium located outside of the enrichment processing equipment at least every 370 calendar days, with static physical inventories being conducted in conjunction with a dynamic physical inventory of in-process uranium and U
235
so as to provide a total plant material balance at least every 370 calendar days; and
(ii) Reconciling and adjusting the book inventory to the results of the static physical inventory and resolving, or reporting an inability to resolve, any inventory difference that is rejected by a statistical test which has a 90 percent power of detecting a discrepancy of a quantity of U
235
, established by NRC on a site-specific basis, within 60 days after the start of each static physical inventory;
(5) A detection program, independent of production, that provides high assurance of detecting:
(i) Production of uranium enriched to 10 percent or more in the U
235
isotope, to the extent that SNM of moderate strategic significance could be produced within any 370 calendar day period;
(ii) Production of uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U
235
isotope; and
(iii) Unauthorized production of uranium of low strategic significance;
(6) An item control program that ensures that:
(i) Current knowledge is maintained of items with respect to identity, uranium and U
235
content, and stored location; and
(ii) Items are stored and handled, or subsequently measured, in a manner so that unauthorized removal of 500 grams or more of U
235
, as individual items or as uranium contained in items, will be detected. Exempted from the requirements of paragraph (c)(6) (i) and (ii) of this section are licensed-identified items each containing less than 500 grams U
235
up to a cumulative total of 50 kilograms of U
235
and items that exist for less than 14 calendar days;
(7) A resolution program that ensures that any shipper-receiver differences are resolved that are statistically significant and exceed 500 grams U
235
on:
(i) An individual batch basis; and
(ii) A total shipment basis for all source material and special nuclear material;
(8) An assessment program that:
(i) Independently assesses the effectiveness of the MC
A system at least every 24 months;
(ii) Documents the results of the above assessment;
(iii) Documents management's findings on whether the MC
A system is currently effective; and
(iv) Documents any actions taken on recommendations from prior assessments.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each licensee shall establish records that will demonstrate that the performance objectives of paragraph (a) of this section and the system features and capabilities of paragraph (c) of this section have been met and maintain these records in an auditable form, available for inspection, for at least 3 years, unless a longer retention time is required by part 75 of this chapter.
(2) Records that must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform if such reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing, on demand, legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures.
(3) The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[56 FR 55999, Oct. 31, 1991]

# Subpart D—Special Nuclear Material of Moderate Strategic Significance
§ 74.41
Nuclear material control and accounting for special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance.
(a)
General performance objectives.
Each licensee who is authorized to possess special nuclear material (SNM) of moderate strategic significance or SNM in a quantity exceeding one effective kilogram of strategic special nuclear material in irradiated fuel reprocessing operations other than as sealed sources and to use this material at any site other than a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter; or as reactor irradiated fuels involved in research, development, and evaluation programs in facilities other than irradiated fuel reprocessing plants; or an operation involved with waste disposal, shall establish, implement, and maintain a Commission-approved material control and accounting (MC
A) system that will achieve the following performance objectives:
(1) Maintain accurate, current, and reliable information on, and confirm, the quantities and locations of SNM in the licensee's possession;
(2) Conduct investigations and resolve any anomalies indicating a possible loss of special nuclear material;
(3) Permit rapid determination of whether an actual loss of a significant quantity of SNM has occurred, with significant quantity being either:
(i) More than one formula kilogram of strategic SNM; or
(ii) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched up to 20.00 percent.
(4) Generate information to aid in the investigation and recovery of missing SNM in the event of an actual loss.
(b)
Implementation schedule.
Each applicant for a license, and each licensee that, upon application for modification of its license, would become newly subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Submit a fundamental nuclear material control (FNMC) plan describing how the performance objectives of § 74.41(a) will be achieved, and how the system capabilities required by § 74.41(c) will be met; and
(2) Implement the NRC-approved FNMC plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section upon the Commission's issuance or modification of a license or by the date specified in a license condition.
(c)
System capabilities.
To achieve the performance objectives specified in § 74.41(a), the MC
A system must include the capabilities described in §§ 74.43 and 74.45, and must incorporate checks and balances that are sufficient to detect falsification of data and reports that could conceal diversion of SNM by:
(1) A single individual, including an employee in any position; or
(2) Collusion between two individuals, one or both of whom have authorized access to SNM.
[67 FR 78146, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.43
Internal controls, inventory, and records.
(a)
General.
Licensees subject to § 74.41 shall maintain the internal control, inventory, and recordkeeping capabilities required in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) Internal controls.
(1) A management structure shall be established, documented, and maintained that assures:
(i) Clear overall responsibility for material control and accounting (MC
A) functions;
(ii) Independence from production and manufacturing responsibilities; and
(iii) Separation of key responsibilities.
(2) The overall planning, coordination, and administration of the MC
A functions for special nuclear material (SNM) shall be vested in a single individual at an organizational level sufficient to assure independence of action and objectiveness of decisions.
(3) The licensee shall provide for the adequate review, approval, and use of written MC
A procedures that are identified in the approved FNMC plan as being critical to the effectiveness of the described system.
(4) The licensee shall assure that personnel who work in key positions
where mistakes could degrade the effectiveness of the MC
A system are trained to maintain a high level of safeguards awareness and are qualified to perform their duties and/or responsibilities.
(5) The licensee shall establish, document, and maintain an item control program that:
(i) Provides current knowledge of SNM items with respect to identity, element and isotope content, and stored location; and
(ii) Assures that SNM items are stored and handled, or subsequently measured, in a manner such that unauthorized removal of 200 grams or more of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams or more of uranium-235, as one or more whole items and/or as SNM removed from containers, will be detected.
(6) Exempted from the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section are items that exist for less than 14 calendar days and licensee-identified items each containing less than 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams or more of uranium-235 up to a cumulative total of one formula kilogram of strategic SNM or 17 kilograms of uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched to 10.00 percent or more but less than 20.00 percent in the uranium-235 isotope.
(7) Conduct and document shipper-receiver comparisons for all SNM receipts, both on an individual batch basis and a total shipment basis, and ensure that any shipper-receiver difference that is statistically significant and exceeds twice the estimated standard deviation of the difference estimator and 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams of uranium-235 is investigated and resolved; and
(8) Perform independent assessments of the total MC
A system, at intervals not to exceed 18 months, that assess the performance of the system, review its effectiveness, and document management's action on prior assessment recommendations and identified deficiencies. These assessments must include a review and evaluation of any contractor who performs SNM accountability measurements for the licensee.
(c)
Inventory control and physical inventories.
The licensee shall:
(1) Provide unique identification for each item on inventory and maintain inventory records showing the identity, location, and quantity of SNM for these items;
(2) Document all transfers of SNM between designated internal control areas within the licensee's site;
(3) Maintain and follow procedures for tamper-safing of containers or vaults containing SNM, if tamper-safe seals are to be used for assuring the validity of prior measurements, which include control of access to, and distribution of, unused seals and to records showing the date and time of seal application;
(4) Maintain and follow procedures for confirming the validity of prior measurements associated with unencapsulated and unsealed items on ending inventory;
(5) Maintain and follow physical inventory procedures to assure that:
(i) The quantity of SNM associated with each item on ending inventory is a measured value;
(ii) Each item on ending inventory is listed and identified to assure that all items are listed and no item is listed more than once;
(iii) Cutoff procedures for transfers and processing are established so that all quantities are inventoried and none are inventoried more than once;
(iv) Cutoff procedures for records and reports are established so that only transfers for the inventory and material balance interval are included in the records for the material balance period in question;
(v) Upon completion of the physical inventory, all book and inventory records, for total plant and individual internal control areas, are reconciled with and adjusted to the results of the physical inventory; and
(vi) Measurements will be performed for element and isotope content on all quantities of SNM not previously measured.
(6) Conduct physical inventories according to written instructions for each physical inventory which:
(i) Assign inventory duties and responsibilities;
(ii) Specify the extent to which each internal control area and process is to
be shut down, cleaned out, and/or remain static;
(iii) Identify the basis for accepting previously made measurements and their limits of error; and
(iv) Designate measurements to be made for physical inventory purposes and the procedures for making these measurements.
(7) Conduct physical inventories of all possessed SNM for each plant at intervals not to exceed 9 calendar months; and
(8) Within 60 calendar days after the start of each physical inventory required by paragraph (c)(7) of this section:
(i) Calculate, for the material balance period terminated by the physical inventory, the inventory difference (ID) and its associated standard error of inventory difference (SEID) for both element and isotope;
(ii) Reconcile and adjust the book record of quantity of element and isotope content, as appropriate, to the results of the physical inventory; and
(iii) Investigate and report to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, any occurrence of SEID exceeding 0.125 percent of active inventory, and any occurrence of ID exceeding both three times SEID and 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams of uranium-235 contained in high enriched uranium, or 9000 grams of uranium-235 contained in low enriched uranium. The report shall include a statement of the probable reasons for the excessive inventory difference and the corrective actions taken or planned.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
The licensee shall:
(1) Maintain records of the receipt, shipment, disposal, and current inventory associated with all possessed SNM;
(2) Maintain records of the quantities of SNM added to and removed from process;
(3) Maintain records of all shipper-receiver evaluations associated with SNM receipts;
(4) Retain each record pertaining to receipt and disposal of SNM until the Commission terminates the license; and
(5) Establish records that will demonstrate that the performance objectives of § 74.41(a)(1) through (4), the system capabilities of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 74.45(b) and (c) have been met, and maintain these records in an auditable form, available for inspection, for at least 3 years, unless a longer retention time is specified by § 74.19(b), part 75 of this chapter, or by a specific license condition.
[67 FR 78146, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.45
Measurements and measurement control.
(a)
General.
Licensees subject to § 74.41 of this part shall establish and maintain the measurement and measurement control capabilities required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Measurements.
The licensee shall:
(1) Establish, maintain, and use a program for the measurement of all SNM received, produced, transferred between internal control areas, on inventory, or shipped, discarded, or otherwise removed from inventory, except for:
(i) Sealed sources that have been determined by other means to contain less than 10 grams of uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium each;
(ii) Samples received, transferred between internal control areas, or on inventory that have been determined by other means to contain less than 10 grams of uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium each;
(iii) Receipt of sealed sources, of any quantity, previously manufactured and shipped by the licensee and which are returned to the licensee, provided the unique identity and encapsulation integrity have not been compromised, and the booked receipt quantity equals the previously shipped quantity for the involved sealed sources; and
(iv) Heterogeneous scrap that cannot be accurately measured in its as received form, provided this scrap is measured after dissolution within 18 months of receipt. The after dissolution measurement must include measurement of both the resulting solution and any undissolved residues, before any co-mingling with other scrap solutions or residues.
(2) Maintain and follow a program for the development and use of written procedures that includes documented
review and approval of these procedures, and any revisions thereof, before use, for:
(i) Preparing or acquiring, maintaining, storing, and using reference standards;
(ii) Calibrating measurement systems, performing bulk mass and volume measurements, conducting nondestructive assay measurements, obtaining samples, and performing laboratory analyses for element concentration and isotope abundance; and
(iii) Recording, reviewing, and reporting measurements.
(c)
Measurement control.
To maintain measurement quality and to estimate measurement uncertainty values, the licensee shall:
(1) Assign responsibility for planning, developing, coordinating, and administering a measurement control program to an individual who has no direct responsibility for performing measurements or for SNM processing or handling, and who holds a position at an organizational level which permits independence of action and has adequate authority to obtain all the information required to monitor and evaluate measurement quality as required by this section.
(2) Ensure that any contractor who performs MC
A measurements services conforms with applicable requirements in paragraphs (c)(5), (6), (7), (10) and (11) of this section. Conformance must include reporting by the contractor of sufficient measurement control data to allow the licensee to calculate bias corrections and measurement limits of error.
(3) Ensure that potential sources of sampling error are identified and that samples are representative by performing process sampling tests using well characterized materials to establish or verify the applicability of utilized procedures for sampling SNM and for maintaining sample integrity during transport and storage. These sampling tests or sample integrity tests, as appropriate, shall be conducted whenever:
(i) A new sampling procedure or technique is used, or new sampling equipment is installed;
(ii) A sampling procedure, technique, or sampling equipment is modified to the extent that a systematic sampling error could be introduced; and
(iii) Sample containers, sample transport methods, or sample storage conditions are changed or modified to the extent that a systematic sampling error could be introduced.
(4) Establish and maintain a measurement control program so that for each inventory period the SEID is less than 0.125 percent of the active inventory, and assure that any MC
A measurements performed under contract are controlled so that the licensee can satisfy this requirement.
(5) Generate current data on the performance of each measurement system used during each material balance period for the establishment of measured values and estimated measurement uncertainties, including estimates of bias, variance components for calibration, sampling, and repeat measurements. The program data must reflect the current process and measurement conditions existing at the time the control measurements are made.
(6) Use standards on an ongoing basis for the calibration and control of all measurement systems used for SNM accountability. Calibrations shall be repeated whenever any significant change occurs in a measurement system or when program data indicate a need for recalibration. Calibrations and control standard measurements shall be based on standards whose assigned values are traceable to certified reference standards or certified standard reference materials. Additionally, control standards shall be representative of the process material or items being measured by the measurement system in question.
(7) Conduct control measurements to provide current data for the determination of random error behavior. On a predetermined schedule, the program shall include, as appropriate:
(i) Replicate analyses of individual samples;
(ii) Analysis of replicate process samples;
(iii) Replicate volume measurements of bulk process batches;
(iv) Replicate weight measurements of process items and bulk batches, or alternatively, the use of data generated from the replicate weighings of control
standard weights as derived from the control standard program; and
(v) Replicate NDA measurements of individual process containers (items), or alternatively, the use of data generated from the replicate measurements of NDA control standards as derived from the control standard program.
(8) Use all measurements and measurement controls generated during the current material balance period for the estimation of the SEID.
(9) Evaluate with appropriate statistical methods all measurement system data generated in paragraph (c)(5) of this section to determine significant contributors to the measurement uncertainties associated with inventory differences and shipper-receiver differences, so that if SEID exceeds the limits established in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the cause of the excessive SEID can be identified for corrective action with respect to controlling the standard error within applicable limits.
(10) Establish and maintain a statistical control system, including control charts and formal statistical procedures, designed to monitor the quality of each measurement device or system. Control chart limits must be established to be equivalent to levels of significance of 0.05 and 0.001.
(11) Promptly investigate and take any appropriate corrective action whenever a control datum exceeds an 0.05 control limit, and whenever a control datum exceeds an 0.001 control limit, the measurement system that generated the datum shall immediately be placed out-of-service with respect to MC
A measurements until the deficiency has been corrected and the system brought into control within the 0.05 control limits.
[67 FR 78146, Dec. 23, 2002]

# Subpart E—Formula Quantities of Strategic Special Nuclear Material

# Source:
52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 74.51
Nuclear material control and accounting for strategic special nuclear material.
(a)
General performance objectives.
Each licensee who is authorized to possess five or more formula kilograms of strategic special nuclear material (SSNM) and to use such material at any site, other than a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, an irradiated fuel reprocessing plant, an operation involved with waste disposal, or an independent spent fuel storage facility licensed pursuant to part 72 of this chapter shall establish, implement, and maintain a Commission-approved material control and accounting (MC
A) system that will achieve the following objectives:
(1) Prompt investigation of anomalies potentially indicative of SSNM losses;
(2) Timely detection of the possible abrupt loss of five or more formula kilograms of SSNM from an individual unit process;
(3) Rapid determination of whether an actual loss of five or more formula kilograms occurred;
(4) Ongoing confirmation of the presence of SSNM in assigned locations; and
(5) Timely generation of information to aid in the recovery of SSNM in the event of an actual loss.
(b)
System capabilities.
To achieve the general performance objectives specified in § 74.51(a), the MC
A system must provide the capabilities described in §§ 74.53, 74.55, 74.57 and 74.59 and must incorporate checks and balances that are sufficient to detect falsification of data and reports that could conceal diversion by:
(1) An individual, including an employee in any position; or
(2) Collusion between an individual with MC
A responsibilities and another individual who has responsibility or control within both the physical protection and the MC
A systems.
(c)
Implementation dates.
Each applicant for a license, and each licensee that, upon application for modification of a license, would become newly subject to paragraph (a) of this section, shall submit a fundamental nuclear material control (FNMC) plan describing how the MC
A system shall satisfy
the requirement of paragraph (b) of this section. The FNMC plan shall be implemented when a license is issued or modified to authorize the activities being addressed in paragraph (a) of this section, or by the date specified in a license condition.
(d)
Inventories.
Notwithstanding § 74.59(f)(1), licensees shall perform at least three bimonthly physical inventories after implementation of the NRC approved FNMC Plan and shall continue to perform bimonthly inventories until performance acceptable to the NRC has been demonstrated and the Commission has issued formal approval to perform semiannual inventories. Licensees who have prior experience with process monitoring and/or can demonstrate acceptable performance against all Plan commitments may request authorization to perform semiannual inventories at an earlier date.
[52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 26963, May 15, 1998; 67 FR 78148, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.53
Process monitoring.
(a) Licensees subject to § 74.51 shall monitor internal transfers, storage, and processing of SSNM. The process monitoring must achieve the detection capabilities described in paragraph (b) of this section for all SSNM except:
(1) SSNM that is subject to the item loss detection requirements of § 74.55;
(2) Scrap in the form of small pieces, cuttings, chips, solutions, or in other forms that result from a manufacturing process, held in containers of 30 gallons or larger, with an SSNM content of less than 0.25 grams per liter;
(3) SSNM with an estimated measurement standard deviation greater than five percent that is either input or output material associated with a unit that processes less than five formula kilograms over a consecutive three-month period; and
(4) SSNM involved in research and development operations that process less than five formula kilograms during any seven-consecutive-day period.
(b)
Unit process detection capability.
For each unit process, a licensee shall establish a production quality control program capable of monitoring the status of material in process. The program shall include:
(1) A statistical test that has at least a 95 percent power of detecting an abrupt loss of five formula kilograms within three working days of a loss of Category IA material from any accessible process location and within seven calendar days of a loss of Category IB material from any accessible process location;
(2) A quality control test whereby process differences greater than three times the estimated standard deviation of the process difference estimator and 25 grams of SSNM are investigated; and
(3) A trend analysis for monitoring and evaluating sequences of material control test results from each unit process to determine if they indicate a pattern of losses or gains that are of safeguards significance.
(c) For research and development operations exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the licensee shall:
(1) Perform material balance tests on a lot or a batch basis, as appropriate, or monthly, whichever is sooner, and investigate any difference greater than 200 grams of plutonium or U-233 or 300 grams of U-235 that exceeds three times the estimated standard error of the inventory difference estimator;
(2) Evaluate material balance results generated during an inventory period for indications of measurement biases or unidentified loss streams and investigate, determine the cause(s) of, and institute corrective action for cumulative inventory differences generated during an inventory period that exceed three formula kilograms of SSNM.
§ 74.55
Item monitoring.
(a) Licensees subject to § 74.51 shall provide the detection capability described in paragraph (b) of this section for laboratory samples containing less than 0.05 formula kilograms of SSNM and any uniquely identified items of SSNM that have been quantitatively measured, the validity of that measurement independently confirmed, and that additionally have been either:
(1) Tamper-safed or placed in a vault or controlled access area that provides protection at least equivalent to tamper-safing; or
(2) Sealed such that removal of SSNM would be readily and permanently apparent (e.g., encapsulated).
(b) The licensee shall verify on a statistical sampling basis, the presence and integrity of SSNM items. The statistical sampling plan must have at least 99 percent power of detecting item losses that total five formula kilograms or more, plant-wide, within:
(1) Thirty calendar days for Category IA items and 60 calendar days for Category IB items contained in a vault or in a permanently controlled access area isolated from the rest of the material access area (MAA);
(2) Three working days for Category IA items and seven calendar days for Category IB items located elsewhere in the MAA, except for reactor components measuring at least one meter in length and weighing in excess of 30 kilograms for which the time interval shall be 30 days;
(3) Sixty calendar days for items in a permanently controlled access area outside of an MAA; or
(4) Sixty calendar days for samples in a vault or permanently controlled access area and 30 calendar days for samples elsewhere in the MAA for samples each containing less than 0.05 formula kilograms of SSNM.
(c) Items containing scrap in the form of small pieces, cuttings, chips, solutions, or in other forms that result from a manufacturing process, held in containers of 30 gallon or larger, with an SSNM concentration of less than 0.25 grams per liter are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
[52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 45844, Aug. 3, 2015]
§ 74.57
Alarm resolution.
(a) Licensees subject to § 74.51 shall provide the MC
A alarm resolution capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b) Licensees shall resolve the nature and cause of any MC
A alarm within approved time periods.
(c) Each licensee shall notify the NRC Operations Center by telephone of any MC
A alarm that remains unresolved beyond the time period specified for its resolution in the licensee's fundamental nuclear material control plan. Notification must occur within 24 hours except when a holiday or weekend intervenes in which case the notification must occur on the next scheduled workday. The licensee may consider an alarm to be resolved if:
(1) Clerical or computational error is found that clearly was the cause for the alarm; or
(2) An assignable cause for the alarm is identified or it is substantiated that no material loss has occurred.
(d) If a material loss has occurred, the licensee shall determine the amount of SSNM lost and take corrective action to:
(1) Return out-of-place SSNM, if possible, to its appropriate place;
(2) Update and correct associated records; and
(3) Modify the MC
A system, if appropriate, to prevent similar future occurrences.
(e) The licensee shall provide an ability to rapidly assess the validity of alleged thefts.
(f) If an abrupt loss detection estimate exceeds five formula kilograms of SSNM:
(1) Material processing operations related to the alarm must be suspended until completion of planned alarm resolution activities, unless the suspension of operations will adversely affect the ability to resolve the alarm. Operation of continuous processes may continue for 24 hours from the time of the occurrence of the alarm during which time checks shall be made for mistakes in records or calculations that could have caused the alarm.
(2) Within 24 hours, the licensee shall notify the NRC Operations Center by telephone that an MC
A alarm resolution procedure has been initiated.
[52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 6877, Feb. 15, 1989; 55 FR 5979, Feb. 21, 1990; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 78148, Dec. 23, 2002]
§ 74.59
Quality assurance and accounting requirements.
(a) Licensees subject to § 74.51 shall provide the quality assurance and accounting capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.
(b)
Management structure.
The licensee shall:
(1) Establish and maintain a management structure that includes clear overall responsibility for planning, coordinating, and administering material control and accounting functions, independence of material control and accounting functions from production responsibilities, and separation of functions such that the activities of one individual or organizational unit serve as controls over and checks of the activities of others; and
(2) Provide for the adequate review, approval, and use of those material control and accounting procedures that are identified in the approved FNMC plan as being critical to the effectiveness of the described system.
(c)
Personnel qualification and training.
The licensee shall assure that personnel who work in key positions where mistakes could degrade the effectiveness of the material control and accounting system are trained to maintain a high level of safeguards awareness and are qualified to perform their duties and/or responsibilities.
(d)
Measurements.
The licensee shall establish and maintain a system of measurements sufficient to:
(1) Substantiate the plutonium element and uranium element and isotope content of all SSNM received, produced, transferred between areas of custodial responsibility, on inventory, or shipped, discarded, or otherwise removed from inventory;
(2) Enable the estimation of the standard deviation associated with each measured quantity; and
(3) Provide the data necessary for performance of the material control tests required by § 74.53(b).
(e)
Measurement control.
The licensee shall assure that the quality of SSNM measurement systems and material processing practices is continually controlled to a level of effectiveness sufficient to satisfy the capabilities required for detection, response, and accounting. To achieve this objective the licensee shall:
(1) Perform engineering analyses and evaluations of the design, installation, preoperational tests, calibration, and operation of all measurement systems to be used for MC
A purposes;
(2) Perform process and engineering tests using well characterized materials to establish or to verify the applicability of existing procedures for mixing and sampling SSNM and maintaining sample integrity during transport and storage. Tests must be repeated at least every three years, at any time there is a process modification that alters the physical or chemical composition of the SSNM, or whenever there is a change in the sampling technique or equipment; and
(3) Generate current data on the performance of measurement processes, including, as appropriate, values for bias corrections, uncertainties on calibration factors, and random error standard deviations. The program must include:
(i) The onging use of standards for calibration and control of all applicable measurement systems. Calibrations must be repeated whenever any change in a measurement system occurs which has the potential to affect a measurement result or when program data, generated by tests performed at a pre-determined frequency, indicate a need for recalibration. Calibrations and tests must be based on standards with traceability to national standards or nationally accepted measurement systems; and
(ii) A system of control measurements to provide current data for the estimation of the standard deviations that are significant contributors to the measurement uncertainties associated with shipper/receiver differences, inventory differences, and process differences.
(4) Utilize the data generated during the current material balance period for the estimation of the standard error of the inventory difference (SEID) and the standard error of the process differences. Calibration and measurement error data collected and used during immediately preceding material balance periods may be combined with current data provided that the measurement systems are in statistical control and the combined data are utilized in characterizing the unknowns.
(5) Evaluate all program data and information to assure that measurement performance is so controlled that the SEID estimator is less than 0.1 percent of active inventory.
(6) Apply bias corrections by an appropriate procedure whereby:
(i) Bias corrections are applied to individual items if for any measurement system the relative bias estimate exceeds twice the standard deviation of its estimator, the absolute bias estimate exceeds 50 grams of SSNM when applied across all affected items, and the absolute bias estimate on an individual item basis exceeds the rounding error of affected items; and
(ii) All biases (regardless of significance) that are not applied as corrections to individual items are applied as a correction to the inventory difference.
(7) Investigate and take corrective action, as appropriate, to identify and reduce associated measurement biases when, for like material types (
i.e.
, measured by the same measurement system), the net cumulative shipper/receiver differences accumulated over a six-month period exceed the larger of one formula kilogram or 0.1 percent of the total amount received.
(8) Establish and maintain a statistical control system designed to monitor the quality of each type of program measurement. Control limits must be established to be equivalent to levels of significance of 0.05 and 0.001. Control data exceeding the 0.05 limits must be investigated and corrective action taken in a timely manner. Whenever a single data point exceeds the 0.001 control limit, the measurement system in question must not be used for material control and accounting purposes until it has been brought into control at the 0.05 level.
(f)
Physical inventory.
The licensee shall:
(1) Except as required by part 75 of this Chapter, perform a physical inventory at least every six calendar months and within 45 days after the start of the ending inventory:
(i) Calculate the inventory difference (ID); estimate the standard error of the inventory difference (SEID); and investigate and report any SEID estimate of 0.1 percent or more of active inventory, and any ID that exceeds both three times SEID and 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233, or 300 grams of uranium-235 contained in high enriched uranium.
(ii) If required to perform an investigation pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, evaluate the significance of the inventory difference relative to expected performance as determined from an analysis of an appropriate sequence of historical inventory differences;
(iii) Investigate and report, by an appropriate method listed in § 74.6, to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, any difference that exceeds three times the standard deviation determined from the sequential analysis;
(iv) Perform a reinventory if directed to do so by the Commission; and
(v) Reconcile and adjust the plant and subsidiary book records to the results of the physical inventory.
(2) Implement policies, practices, and procedures designed to ensure the quality of physical inventories. These must include:
(i) Development of procedures for tamper-safing of containers or vaults containing SSNM not in process that include adequate controls to assure the validity of assigned SSNM values;
(ii) Maintenance of records of the quantities of SSNM added to and removed from process;
(iii) Requirements for signed documentation of all SSNM transfers between areas with different custodial responsibility that reflect all quantities of SSNM transferred;
(iv) Means for control of and accounting for internal transfer documents;
(v) Cutoff procedures for transfers and processing so that all quantities of SSNM are inventoried and none are inventoried more than once;
(vi) Cutoff procedures for records and reports so that all transfers for the inventory and material balance interval and no others are included in the records;
(vii) Inventory procedures for sealed sources and containers or vaults containing SSNM that assure reliable identification and quantification of contained SSNM;
(viii) Inventory procedures for in-process SSNM that provide for measurement of quantities not previously measured for element and isotope, as appropriate, and remeasurement of material previously measured but whose
validity has not been assured by tamper-safing or equivalent protection; and
(ix) Written instructions for conducting physical inventories that detail assignments, responsibilities, and preparation for and performance of an inventory.
(g)
Accounting.
The licensee shall establish auditable records sufficient to demonstrate that the requirements of §§ 74.53, 74.55, 74.57, and 74.59 have been met and retain those records for at least three years unless a longer retention period is required by part 75 of this Chapter.
(h)
Internal control.
The licensee shall:
(1) Establish procedures for shipping and receiving SSNM that provide for:
(i) Accurate identification and measurement of the quantities shipped and received;
(ii) Review and evaluation of shipper/receiver differences on an individual container or lot basis, as appropriate, on a shipment basis, and on a batch basis when required by part 75 of this Chapter;
(iii) Investigation and corrective action when shipper/receiver differences exceed twice the estimated standard deviation of the difference estimator and the larger of 0.5 percent of the amount of SSNM in the container, lot, or shipment, as appropriate, or 50 grams of SSNM; and
(iv) Documentation of shipper/receiver difference evaluations, investigations, and corrective actions.
(2) Establish a scrap control program that assures that:
(i) Internally generated scrap and scrap from other licensees or contractors is segregated until accountability is established; and
(ii) Any scrap measured with a standard deviation greater than five percent of the measured amount is recovered so that the results are segregated by inventory period and recovered within six months of the end of the inventory period in which the scrap was generated except where it can be demonstrated that the scrap measurement uncertainty will not cause noncompliance with § 74.59(e)(5).
(3) Incorporate checks and balances in the MC
A system sufficient to control the rate of human errors in material control and accounting information.
(4) Perform independent assessments at least every 12 months that assess the performance of the MC
A system, review its effectiveness, and document management's action on prior assessment recommendations. Assessments must include an evaluation of the measurement control program of any outside contractor laboratory performing MC
A measurements for a licensee, unless the contractor is also subject to the requirements of § 74.59(e).
(5) Assign custodial responsibility in a manner that ensures that such responsibility can be effectively executed for all SSNM possessed under license.
[52 FR 10040, Mar. 30, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 6878, Feb. 15, 1989; 55 FR 5979, Feb. 21, 1990; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 78148, Dec. 23, 2002; 68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003]

# Subpart F—Enforcement
§ 74.81
Inspections.
(a) Each licensee shall afford to the Commission at all reasonable times opportunity to inspect special nuclear material and the premises and facilities wherein special nuclear material is used, produced, or stored.
(b) Each licensee shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by the licensee pertaining to its receipt, possession, use, acquisition, import, export, or transfer of special nuclear material.
(c)(1) In the case of fuel cycle facilities where nuclear reactor fuel is fabricated or processed, each licensee shall upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator, provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets, and janitorial services shall be furnished by each licensee. The office shall be convenient to and have full access to the facility, and shall provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.
(2) For a site with a single fuel facility licensed pursuant to part 70 of this chapter, the space provided shall be
adequate to accommodate a full-time inspector, a part-time secretary, and transient NRC personnel. It will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. A space of 250 square feet either within the site's office complex or in an office trailer or other on-site space is suggested as a guide. For sites containing multiple fuel facilities, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspector(s). The office space that is provided shall be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator. All furniture, supplies, and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.
(3) The licensee shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to their site, or other NRC inspectors identified by the Director of the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards as likely to inspect the facility, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
(d) At a facility using and possessing a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material in unirradiated form, the licensee may not announce or otherwise communicate to its employees or site contractors the arrival or presence of an NRC safeguards inspector unless specifically requested to do so by the safeguards inspector.
[50 FR 7579, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 31613, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 6878, Feb. 15, 1989; 55 FR 5979, Feb. 21, 1990; 58 FR 29522, May 21, 1993]
§ 74.82
Tests.
Each licensee shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, any tests that the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for the administration of the regulations in this part, including tests of:
(a) Special nuclear material;
(b) Facilities where special nuclear material is utilized, produced, or stored; and
(c) Other equipment and devices used in connection with the production, utilization, or storage of special nuclear material.
§ 74.83
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55079, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 74.84
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 74 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 74 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 74.1, 74.2, 74.4, 74.5, 74.6, 74.7, 74.8, 74.83 and 74.84.
[57 FR 55079, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 75

# PART 75—SAFEGUARDS ON NUCLEAR MATERIAL—IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY

# General Provisions
Sec.
75.1
Purpose.
75.2
Scope.
75.3
Exemptions.
75.4
Definitions.
75.5
Interpretations.
75.6
Reporting requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities.
75.7
Notification of IAEA safeguards.
75.8
IAEA inspections
75.9
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
75.10
Facilities.
75.11
Locations.
75.12
Nuclear material outside facilities.
75.13
Communication of information to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

# Material Accounting and Control
75.15
Facility attachments.
75.21
General requirements.
75.22
Accounting records.
75.23
Operating records.
75.24
Retention of records.

# IAEA Nuclear Material Exemptions and Terminations
75.26
Exemption from IAEA safeguards.
75.27
Requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities after issuance of IAEA exemptions.
75.28
Termination from IAEA safeguards.
75.29
Requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities after termination from IAEA safeguards.

# Reports
75.31
General requirements.
75.32
Initial inventory report.
75.33
Accounting reports.
75.34
Inventory change reports.
75.35
Material status reports.
75.36
Special reports.

# Advanced Notification and Expenses
75.43
Circumstances requiring advance notification.
75.44
Timing of advance notification.
75.45
Content of advance notification.
75.46
Expenses.

# Enforcement
75.51
Violations.
75.53
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 63, 103, 104, 122, 161, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2093, 2133, 2134, 2152, 2201, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 135, 141 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 75.4 also issued under Nuclear Waste Policy Act secs. 135 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161).

# Source:
45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 75.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the requirements established by the safeguards agreements between the United States (U.S.) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). This part contains requirements to ensure that the U.S. meets its nuclear non-proliferation obligations under the safeguards agreements. These obligations include providing information to the IAEA on the physical location of applicant, licensee, or certificate holder activities; information on source and special nuclear materials; and access to the physical location of applicant, licensee, or certificate holder activities. These obligations are similar to the obligations accepted by other countries.
[83 FR 19609, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.2
Scope.
(a) The regulations in this part apply to all persons licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or an Agreement State; who hold a certificate of compliance, construction permit or authorization issued by the NRC; who have filed an application with the NRC to construct a facility or to receive source or special nuclear material; or who possess source or special nuclear material subject to NRC regulation under 10 CFR Chapter I.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to facilities or locations determined by the U.S. Government to be
associated with activities or information of direct national security significance.
[83 FR 19609, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.3
Exemptions.
The NRC may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant exemptions from the requirements of this part that it determines are authorized by law and consistent with the safeguards agreements, are not inimical to the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest.
[83 FR 19609, May 4 2018]
§ 75.4
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Unless otherwise defined in this section, the terms defined in §§ 40.4, 50.2, and 70.4 of this chapter have the same meaning when used in this part.
Additional Protocol
means the Protocol Additional to the Agreement Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, concluded between the United States and the IAEA in Vienna, Austria, on June 12, 1998, that follows the provisions of INFCIRC/540.
Agreement State
as designated in part 150 of this chapter means any State with which the Commission has entered into an effective agreement under subsection 274b. of the Act.
Batch
means a portion of nuclear material handled as a unit for accounting purposes at a key measurement point and for which the composition and quantity are defined by a single set of specifications or measurements. The nuclear material may be in bulk form or contained in a number of separate items.
Complementary access
means access provided to IAEA inspectors in accordance with the provisions of the Additional Protocol.
Containment
(with respect to IAEA safeguards) means containers, devices, or structures that are used to prevent undetected access to or movement of nuclear material.
Effective kilogram
means a unit used in safeguarding nuclear material. The quantity is:
(1) For special nuclear material: The amount specified in § 70.4 of this chapter.
(2) For source material: The amount specified in § 40.4 of this chapter.
Eligible Facilities List
means the list of facilities that are eligible for IAEA safeguards inspections under the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, which the Secretary of State or his designee last submitted for Congressional review and which was not disapproved. A copy of this list is available for inspection at the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov,
and/or at the NRC Public Document Room. In accordance with the provisions of the Safeguards Agreement, facilities of direct national security significance are excluded from the Eligible Facilities List.
Environmental sampling
(with respect to IAEA Safeguards) means the collection of environmental samples (e.g., air, water, vegetation, soil, or smears from surfaces) at a location specified by the IAEA for the purpose of assisting the IAEA to draw a conclusion about the absence of undeclared nuclear material or nuclear activities.
Facility
means:
(1) A production facility or utilization facility as defined in § 50.2 of this chapter;
(2) A plant that converts nuclear material from one chemical form to another (e.g., Uranium hexafluoride plant);
(3) A fuel fabrication plant;
(4) An enrichment plant or isotope separation plant for the separation of isotopes of uranium or to increase the abundance of
235
U.
(5) An installation designed to store nuclear material, such as an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) as defined in § 72.3 of this chapter; or
(6) Any plant or location where the possession of more than 1 effective kilogram of nuclear material is licensed pursuant to Parts 40, 50, 60, 61, 63, 70, 72, 76, or 150 of this chapter or an Agreement State license.
Facility attachment
means a document negotiated between the U.S. and the
IAEA that establishes safeguards commitments for a particular facility.
IAEA
means the International Atomic Energy Agency or its duly authorized representatives.
IAEA material balance area
means an area established for IAEA accounting purposes, such that:
(1) The quantity of nuclear material in each transfer into or out of each material balance area can be determined; and
(2) The physical inventory of nuclear material in each material balance area can be determined when necessary in accordance with specified procedures.
Initial protocol
means the protocol to the
Agreement Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America
that was concluded with the IAEA and provides the IAEA the right to select a facility for material accounting reporting only without the right to conduct inspections.
Inventory change
means an increase or decrease in the quantity of nuclear material in an IAEA material balance area.
Key measurement point
means a physical location where nuclear material appears in such a form that it may be measured to determine material flow or inventory. Key measurement points include, but are not limited to, inputs and outputs (including measured discards) and storages in IAEA material balance areas.
Location
means any geographical point or area subject to IAEA safeguards under the Additional Protocol because it was identified either by the U.S. in its declarations, or by the IAEA resulting from a question.
Managed access
means procedures to protect sensitive or classified information or, to meet safety or physical protection requirements, while allowing the IAEA to accomplish the purpose of a complementary access request.
Nuclear fuel cycle-related manufacturing and construction
means those activities related to the manufacture or construction of any of the following: Components for separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235, zirconium tubes, heavy water or deuterium, nuclear-grade graphite, irradiated fuel casks and canisters, reactor control rods, criticality safe tanks and vessels, irradiated fuel element chopping machines, and hot cells.
Nuclear fuel cycle-related research and development
means those activities specifically related to any process or system development aspect of any of the following: Conversion of nuclear material; enrichment of nuclear material; nuclear fuel fabrication; reactors; critical facilities; reprocessing of nuclear fuel; and processing of intermediate or high-level waste containing plutonium, high-enriched uranium, or uranium-233.
Nuclear material
means any source material or any special nuclear material.
Nuclear material outside facilities
means nuclear material in the U.S. Caribbean Territories that is not in a facility, and is customarily used in amounts of one effective kilogram or less.
Person
means:
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, government agency other than the Commission or the U.S. Department of Energy (except that the Department shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to law) any State or any political subdivision of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and
(2) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Physical location
means a specific geographical point or area, where either nuclear material subject to Safeguards Agreements resides or an activity subject to the Safeguards Agreements occurs.
Safeguards Agreements
means the Agreement between the United States of America and the IAEA for the Application of Safeguards in the United States (INFCIRC/288) and all protocols and subsidiary arrangements thereto, and the Agreement between the United
States and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (INFCIRC/366) and all protocols and subsidiary arrangements thereto.
Small Quantities Protocol
means the Small Quantities Protocol to the Agreement between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (INFCIRC/366).
Subsidiary Arrangement
means a document, negotiated between the U.S. and the IAEA, that formally defines the technical and administrative procedures to implement the measures contained in the Safeguards Agreement.
Surveillance
(with respect to IAEA Safeguards) means instrumental or human observation aimed at detecting the movement of nuclear material.
Transitional Facility Attachment
means that portion of the “Transitional Subsidiary Arrangements to the Protocol to the Safeguards Agreement” that pertains to a particular facility that has been identified under the Initial Protocol.
U.S. Caribbean Territories
means those territories for which, de jure or de facto, the U.S. is internationally responsible and which lie within the limits of the geographical zone established in Article 4 of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Tlatelolco Treaty), which includes: Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Navassa Island, Serranilla Bank, Baja Nuevo (Petrel Island), and the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base.
U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement
means the Agreement between the United States of America and the IAEA for the Application of Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (INFCIRC/366), and all protocols and subsidiary arrangements thereto.
U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement
means the Agreement between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States (INFCIRC/288), and all protocols and subsidiary arrangements thereto.
[45 FR 50711, July 13, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 58283, Dec. 1, 1981; 53 FR 31683, Aug. 19, 1988; 57 FR 18393, Apr. 30, 1992; 57 FR 33432, July 29, 1992; 63 FR 26963, May 15, 1998; 66 FR 55816, Nov. 2, 2001; 73 FR 78608, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19609, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.5
Interpretations.
Except as authorized specifically by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 75.6
Reporting requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities.
(a) Except where otherwise specified, all communications concerning the regulations in this Part shall be addressed to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Document Control Desk, Washington, DC 20555-0001. Written communications may be delivered in person to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852-2738 between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. eastern time. If a submittal deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the next Federal working day becomes the official due date.
(b) Each applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities, who has been given notice by the NRC in writing that it is required to report under Safeguards Agreements for its facility, nuclear material outside facilities, or location, shall make its initial and subsequent reports, including attachments, in an appropriate format defined in the instructions. The DOE/NRC forms and their instructions may be accessed at
https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms.
The AP-A and associated forms may be accessed at
www.AP.gov.
(c) Facilities—Specific information regarding facilities is to be reported as follows:
Item
Section
Manner of delivery
Initial Inventory Report
75.32
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-742C.
Inventory Change Reports
75.34
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-741 and Form-740M.
Material Status Reports
75.35
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-742, Form-742C, and Form-740M.
Special Reports
75.36
To the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
Advance Notification of Import and Exports or of Domestic Transfers
75.43
In writing to the NRC, as specified in 75.6(a), 75.44, and 75.45.
Facility information
75.10(d)
As specified by printed instructions for IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms.
Site information
75.10(e)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms.
(d) Locations—Specific information regarding locations is to be reported as follows:
Item
Section
Manner of delivery
Fuel cycle-related research and development information
75.11(b)(1)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
Fuel cycle-related manufacturing and construction information
75.11(b)(2)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
Mines and concentration plant information
75.11(b)(3)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
Impure source material possession information
75.11(b)(4)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
Imports and exports of source material for non-nuclear end uses
75.11(b)(5)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
IAEA safeguards-exempted and terminated nuclear material information
75.11(b)(6)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
Imports and exports of non-nuclear material and equipment
75.11(b)(7)
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
(e) Nuclear material outside facilities—Specific information regarding nuclear material outside facilities in the U.S. Caribbean Territories is to be reported as follows:
Item
Section
Manner of delivery
Initial Inventory Report
75.32
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-742C and DOE/NRC Form 740M.
Inventory Change Reports
75.34
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-741 and DOE/NRC Form-740M.
Material Status Reports
75.35
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form-742, DOE/NRC Form-742C, and DOE/NRC Form-740M.
Special Reports
75.36
To the NRC Headquarters Operations Center (commercial telephone number 301-816-5100).
Advance Notification of Import and Exports or of Domestic Transfers
75.43
In writing to the NRC, as specified in 75.6(a), 75.43, 75.44, and 75.45.
Nuclear Material Outside Facilities Information
75.12
As specified by printed instructions for preparation of DOE/NRC Form 740M.
[73 FR 78609, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 45844, Aug. 3, 2015; 83 FR 19610, May 4, 2018, 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 75.7
Notification of IAEA safeguards.
(a) The NRC, by written notice, will inform the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder of those facilities subject to the application of IAEA safeguards under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement.
(b) The licensee must inform the NRC in accordance with § 75.6(c):
(1) Before the licensee begins an activity that may be subject to the U.S-IAEA Safeguards Agreement; or
(2) Within 30 days of beginning an activity subject to the Additional Protocol.
(c) The notice provided under paragraph (a) of this section is effective until the NRC informs the licensee or certificate holder, in writing, that its facility is no longer so designated. Whenever a previously designated facility is no longer subject to the application of IAEA safeguards under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, the NRC will give the licensee or certificate holder prompt notice to that effect.
[83 FR 19610, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.8
IAEA inspections.
(a) As provided in the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol, inspections may be ad hoc, routine, special, or a complementary access (or a combination of the foregoing). As provided in the Small Quantities Protocol of the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement, inspections may be ad hoc or special. The objectives of the IAEA inspectors in the performance of inspections are as follows:
(1) Ad hoc inspections to verify information contained in the licensee's, applicant's, certificate holder's, or possessor's of nuclear material outside facilities facility information or initial inventory report, or to identify and verify changes in the situation that have occurred after the inventory date under § 75.32(a) or (b) at any physical location where the initial inventory report or any inspections carried out indicate that nuclear material subject to safeguards pursuant to the Safeguards Agreements may be present;
(2) Ad hoc inspections to identify and, if possible, verify the quantity and composition of the nuclear material referred to in notifications specified under § 75.43(b) (pertaining to exports) or § 75.43(c) (pertaining to imports) at any place where nuclear material may be located;
(3) Routine inspections are conducted as specified by the facility attachments referred to in § 75.15 to verify nuclear material and as-built facility design at the strategic points and the records maintained under this part;
(4) Special inspections may be conducted at any of the physical locations specified above and any additional places where the NRC (in coordination with other Federal agencies), in response to an IAEA request, finds access to be necessary;
(5) Complementary access may be conducted at a location, using measures permitted under the Additional Protocol and as specified by managed access procedures, for the IAEA inspectors to verify the completeness and accuracy of the information provided on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 or AP-A and associated forms; and
(6) Complementary access must be provided at any additional locations where the Commission (in coordination with other Federal agencies), in response to an IAEA request, finds access to be necessary.
(b) The NRC will notify the applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities of each such inspection or complementary access in writing as soon as possible after receiving the IAEA's notice from the U.S. Department of State. The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities should consult with the NRC immediately if the inspection or complementary access would unduly interfere with its activities or if its key personnel cannot be available.
(c) Each applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities subject to the provisions of this part shall recognize as a duly authorized representative of the IAEA any person bearing IAEA credentials for whom the NRC has provided written or electronic authorization that the IAEA representative is permitted to conduct inspection activities on specified dates. If the IAEA representative's credentials have not been confirmed by the NRC, the applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall not admit the person until the NRC has confirmed the person's credentials. The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall
notify the NRC promptly, by telephone, whenever an IAEA representative arrives at a facility, nuclear material outside facilities, or location without advance notification. The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall also contact the NRC, by telephone, within 1 hour with respect to the credentials of any person who claims to be an IAEA representative and shall accept written or electronic confirmation of the credentials from the NRC. Confirmation may be requested through the NRC Operations Center (commercial telephone number 301-816-5100).
(d) Each applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities subject to the provisions of this part shall allow the IAEA opportunity to conduct an NRC-approved inspection or complementary access of the facility, nuclear material outside facilities, or location to verify the information submitted under §§ 75.10 through 75.12 and 75.31 through 75.43. The NRC will assign an employee to accompany IAEA representative(s) at all times during the inspection or complementary access. The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities may accompany IAEA representatives who inspect or access the facility, nuclear material outside facilities, or location. The IAEA representatives should not be delayed or otherwise impeded in the exercise of their duties.
(e) Each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall permit the IAEA, in conducting an ad hoc, routine, or special inspection at a facility, to:
(1) Examine records kept under § 75.21;
(2) Observe that the measurements of nuclear material at key measurement points for material balance accounting are representative;
(3) Verify the function and calibration of instruments and other measurement control equipment;
(4) Observe that samples at key measurement points for material balance accounting are taken in accordance with procedures that produce representative samples, observe the treatment and analysis of the samples, and obtain duplicates of these samples;
(5) Arrange to use the IAEA's own equipment for independent measurement and surveillance; and
(6) Perform other measures requested by the IAEA and approved by the NRC.
(f) Each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall, at the request of an IAEA inspector during an ad hoc, routine, or special inspection at a facility:
(1) Ship material accountancy samples taken for the IAEA's use, in accordance with applicable packaging and export licensing regulations, by the method of carriage and to the address specified by the inspector; and
(2) Take other actions contemplated by the Safeguards Agreement, and included in the safeguards approach approved by the United States and the IAEA, including but not limited to the following examples:
(i) Enabling the IAEA to arrange to install its equipment for measurement and surveillance;
(ii) Enabling the IAEA to apply its seals and other identifying and tamper-indicating devices to containers;
(iii) Making additional measurements and taking additional samples for the IAEA's use;
(iv) Analyzing the IAEA's standard analytical samples;
(v) Using appropriate standards in calibrating instruments and other equipment; and
(vi) Carrying out other calibrations.
(g) Each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall permit the IAEA, in conducting complementary access at a location, under the provisions of the Additional Protocol and subsidiary arrangements, to:
(1) Perform visual observations and record observations as photographs;
(2) Conduct environmental sampling, when authorized by the U.S. Government;
(3) Use radiation detection and measurement devices;
(4) Apply seals and other identifying and tamper-indicating devices;
(5) Perform nondestructive measurements and sampling;
(6) Examine records relevant to quantities, origin, and disposition of materials to confirm the accuracy of the information provided under § 75.11;
(7) Examine safeguards-relevant production and shipping records; and
(8) Other objective measures that have been demonstrated to be technically feasible and the use of which has been agreed upon by the IAEA Board of Governors and following consultations between the IAEA and U.S. Government.
(h) Each possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall permit the IAEA, in conducting an ad hoc or special inspection for nuclear material outside facilities, to:
(1) Observe that the measurements of nuclear material at key measurement points for material balance accounting are representative;
(2) Verify the function and calibration of instruments and other measurement control equipment;
(3) Observe that samples at key measurement points for material balance accounting are taken in accordance with procedures that produce representative samples, observe the treatment and analysis of the samples, and obtain duplicates of these samples;
(4) Arrange to use the IAEA's own equipment for independent measurement and surveillance; and
(5) Perform other measures requested by the IAEA and approved by the NRC.
(i) Each possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall, at the request of an IAEA inspector during an ad hoc or special inspection for nuclear material outside facilities:
(1) Ship material accountancy samples taken for the IAEA's use, in accordance with applicable packaging and export licensing regulations, by the method of carriage and to the address specified by the inspector; and
(2) Take other actions contemplated by the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement and included in the safeguards approach approved by the United States and the IAEA, including but not limited to the following examples:
(i) Enabling the IAEA to arrange to install its equipment for measurement and surveillance;
(ii) Enabling the IAEA to apply its seals and other identifying and tamper-indicating devices to containers;
(iii) Making additional measurements and taking additional samples for the IAEA's use;
(iv) Analyzing the IAEA's standard analytical samples;
(v) Using appropriate standards in calibrating instruments and other equipment; and
(vi) Carrying out other calibrations.
(j) Nothing in this section requires or authorizes an applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities to carry out any operation that would otherwise constitute a violation of the terms of any applicable license, regulation, or order of the NRC.
[73 FR 78609, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 19610, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.9
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or another U.S. Government agency, has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this Part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this Part under control number 3150-0055.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this Part appear in §§ 75.3, 75.6, 75.7a, 75.10, 75.11, 75.12, 75.21, 75.22, 75.23, 75.24, 75.31, 75.32, 75.33, 75.34, 75.35, 75.36, 75.43, 75.44, and 75.45.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In § 75.10, Design Information Questionnaire forms are approved under control number 3150-0056.
(2) In §§ 75.31, 75.32, 75.33, and 75.35, DOE/NRC Form 742 is approved under control number 3150-0004.
(3) In §§ 75.33 and 75.34, DOE/NRC Form 741 is approved under control number 3150-0003.
(4) In §§ 75.34 and 75.35, DOE/NRC Form 740M is approved under OMB control number 3150-0057.
(5) In § 75.35, DOE/NRC Form 742C is approved under control number 3150-0058.
(6) In §§ 75.10 and 75.11, DOC/NRC Forms AP-1, AP-A, and associated forms are approved under control number 0694-0135.
[49 FR 19628, May 9, 1984, as amended at 62 FR 52189, Oct. 6, 1997; 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002; 73 FR 78610, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
§ 75.10
Facilities.
(a) Each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder subject to the provisions of this Part shall submit facility information, in response to written notification from the NRC, with respect to any facility that the NRC indicates has been identified under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, the Initial Protocol to the Agreement, or meets the Additional Protocol reporting criteria, and in which the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder carries out licensed activities. (The NRC request must state whether the facility has been identified under Article 39(b) of the principal text of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement or Article 2(a) of the Initial protocol.) The applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall submit the requested information to the NRC within the period specified in the NRC's request.
(b) Facility information includes:
(1) The identification of the facility, stating its general character, purpose, nominal capacity (thermal power level, in the case of power reactors), and geographic physical location, and the name and address to be used for routine purposes;
(2) A description of the general arrangement of the facility with reference, to the extent feasible, to the form, physical location and flow of nuclear material, and to the general layout of important items of equipment which use, produce, or process nuclear material;
(3) A description of features of the facility relating to material accounting, containment, and surveillance;
(4) A description of the existing and proposed procedures at the facility for nuclear material accounting and control, with special reference to material balance areas established by the licensee, measurement of flow, and procedures for physical inventory taking (As part of this description, the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder may identify a process step involving information that it deems to be commercially sensitive and for which it proposes that a special material balance area be established so as to restrict IAEA access to this information); and
(5) A map of the site and information on the size of the buildings and on the general nature of the activities conducted in each building.
(c) Each licensee or certificate holder shall thereafter submit to the NRC information with respect to any modification at the facility affecting the information referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The following information must be submitted:
(1) Regarding a modification of a type described in the license or certificate conditions: At least 180 days before the modification is scheduled to be started, except that in an emergency or other unforeseen situation a shorter period may be approved by the NRC.
(2) Regarding any other modification relevant to the application of the provisions of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement: At the time the first inventory change report is submitted after the modification is completed.
(d) The information specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, except for the information specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, must be prepared on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms or other forms supplied by the NRC. The information must be sufficiently detailed to enable knowledgeable determinations
to be made in the development of Facility Attachments or amendments thereto, including:
(1) Identification of the features of facilities and nuclear material relevant to the application of safeguards to nuclear material in sufficient detail to facilitate verification;
(2) Determination of IAEA material balance areas to be used for IAEA accounting purposes and selection of those strategic points which are key measurement points and which will be used to determine flow and inventory of nuclear material;
(3) Establishment of the nominal timing and procedures for taking of physical inventories of nuclear material for IAEA accounting purposes;
(4) Establishment of the records and reports requirements and records evaluation procedures;
(5) Establishment of requirements and procedures for verification of the quantity and physical location of nuclear material;
(6) Selection of appropriate combinations of containment and surveillance methods and techniques at the strategic points at which they are to be applied; and
(7) Information on organizational responsibility for material accounting and control.
(e) Information specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section must be submitted as specified by instructions for DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms and shall contain a site map drawn to scale as an attachment.
(f) The applicant's, licensee's, or certificate holder's security rules for physical protection that will impact the IAEA inspectors at the facility must be included in the facility information only when and to the extent specifically requested by the NRC.
(g) Health and safety rules that are to be observed by the IAEA inspectors at the facility must be included in the facility information.
(h) Information must be provided on the need to manage IAEA access to the facility to protect health and safety or to protect classified, proprietary, or other sensitive information, and on other protective measures that should be implemented should an IAEA access be requested.
[73 FR 78611, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 75.11
Locations.
(a) As required by the Additional Protocol, each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall submit location information to the NRC as specified in the instructions for DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.
(b) Location information includes:
(1) Nuclear fuel cycle-related research and development information including a general description of the activity and information specifying the physical location of the activity.
(2) Nuclear fuel cycle-related manufacturing or construction information including a description of the scale of operations for the activity.
(3) Uranium and thorium mine and concentration plant information including information on the physical location, operational status, and the estimated annual production capacity and current annual production of the activity.
(4) Impure source material possession information including the quantities, the chemical composition, and the use or intended use of the material (e.g., nuclear or non-nuclear use).
(5) Imports and exports of source material for non-nuclear end uses including the physical location, quantities, chemical compositions, and use of the imported or exported material.
(6) IAEA-exempted and -terminated nuclear material information including information regarding the quantities, uses, and physical location of the nuclear material.
(7) Imports and exports of non-nuclear material and equipment including the physical location, quantity and description of the materials and equipment.
(c) Information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section must be supplied as specified in the instructions for DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms. The Information provided on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms must be submitted annually. If the information has not changed, a “No change” report
must be provided. NRC should also be notified when the activity is no longer performed. The annual report must be submitted by January 31 of each succeeding year after the initial report. The initial report must be submitted no later than 30 calendar days following the date of publication of this rule.
(d) Information must be provided on the need to manage IAEA access to the location to protect health and safety or to protect classified, proprietary, or other sensitive information, and on other protective measures that should be implemented should an IAEA access be requested.
[73 FR 78611, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.12
Nuclear material outside facilities.
A possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall provide to the NRC the possessor's name and mailing address, physical location of the nuclear material, use of nuclear material, and nuclear material accounting and control procedures, including organizational responsibilities for accountancy and control. This information must be provided annually with the material status report in accordance with §§ 75.6(e) and 75.35(c).
[83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.13
Communication of information to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the NRC will furnish to the IAEA all information submitted under §§ 75.10, 75.11, 75.12, and 75.31 through 75.43.
(b)(1) An applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities may request that information of particular sensitivity, that it customarily holds in confidence, not be transmitted physically to the IAEA. An applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities who makes this request shall, at the time the information is submitted, identify the pertinent document or part thereof and make a full statement of the reasons supporting the request.
(2) In considering such a request, it is the policy of the NRC to achieve an effective balance between legitimate concerns of licensees, applicants, certificate holders, or possessors of nuclear material outside facilities, including protection of the competitive position of the owner of the information, and the undertaking of the United States to cooperate with the IAEA to facilitate the implementation of the safeguards provided for in the Safeguards Agreements. The NRC will take into account the obligation of the IAEA to take every precaution to protect commercial and industrial secrets and other confidential information coming to its knowledge in the implementation of the safeguards agreements.
(3) A request made under § 2.390 of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that such information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.
(4) If a request is granted, the NRC will determine a physical location where the information will remain readily available for examination by the IAEA and will so inform the applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities.
(c) A request made under § 2.390(b) of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that this information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.
(d) Where consistent with the Safeguards Agreements, the NRC may at its own initiative, or at the request of a licensee, determine that any information submitted under §§ 75.10, 75.11, and 75.12 shall not be physically transmitted to, or made available for examination by, the IAEA.
[83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018]

# Material Accounting and Control
§ 75.15
Facility attachments.
(a) The Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment will document the determinations referred to in § 75.10 and will contain other appropriate provisions.
(b) The NRC will issue license or certificate amendments, as necessary, to implement the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the Facility Attachment (as amended from time to time). The license or certificate amendments through reference to the Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment, or otherwise, will specify:
(1) IAEA material balance areas;
(2) Types of modifications for which information is required, under § 75.10, to be submitted in advance;
(3) Procedures, as referred to in § 75.21;
(4) The extent to which isotopic composition must be included in batch data (under § 75.22) and advance notification (§ 75.45);
(5) Items to be reported in the concise notes accompanying inventory change reports, as referred to in § 75.34;
(6) Loss limits and changes in containment, as referred to in § 75.36 (pertaining to special reports);
(7) Actions required to be taken under § 75.8(f) at the request of an IAEA inspector;
(8) Procedures to be used for documentation of requests under § 75.46 (pertaining to expenses); and
(9) Other appropriate matters.
(c) The NRC will also issue license or certificate amendments, as necessary, for implementing the Initial Protocol to the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the Transitional Facility Attachment (as amended from time to time).
(d) License or certificate amendments will be made under the NRC's rules of practice (part 2 of this chapter). Specifically, if the licensee or certificate holder does not agree to an amendment, an order modifying the license would be issued under § 2.204 of this chapter.
(e) Subject to constraints imposed by the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, the NRC will afford the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder a reasonable opportunity to participate in the development of the Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment applicable to the facility, and any amendments thereto, and to review and comment upon any instrument before it has been agreed to by the United States. The NRC will provide to the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder a copy of any such instrument that has been completed under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement.
(f) Locations reporting under the Additional Protocol, unless located in a facility selected under Article 39(b) of the main text of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, do not have Facility Attachments or Transitional Facility Attachments.
[73 FR 78612, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 19612, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.21
General requirements.
(a) Each licensee or certificate holder who has been given notice by the NRC in writing that its facility has been identified under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement shall establish, maintain, and follow written material accounting and control procedures.
(b) Each possessor of nuclear material outside facilities in the U.S. Caribbean Territories shall establish, maintain, and follow written material accounting and control procedures.
(c) The material accounting and control procedures required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include, as appropriate:
(1) A measurement system for the determination of the quantities of nuclear material received, produced, shipped, lost or otherwise removed from inventory, and the quantities on inventory;
(2) The evaluation of precision and accuracy of measurements and the estimation of measurement uncertainty;
(3) Procedures for identifying, reviewing and evaluating differences in shipper/receiver measurements;
(4) Procedures, including frequency, for taking a physical inventory;
(5) Procedures for the evaluation of accumulations of unmeasured inventory and unmeasured losses; and
(6) A system of accounting and operating records.
(d)(1) The procedures must, unless otherwise specified in license or certificate conditions, conform to the facility information submitted by the licensee under § 75.10.
(2) Until facility information has been submitted by the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder, the procedures must be sufficient to document changes in the quantity of nuclear material in or at its facility. Observance of the procedures described in §§ 40.61 or 74.15 of this chapter (or the corresponding provisions of the regulations of an Agreement State) by any applicant, licensee, or certificate holder subject thereto constitutes compliance with this paragraph.
(e) The requirements of this section are in addition to any other requirements of this chapter, relating to material accounting and control, that may apply to the licensee.
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 19263, May 27, 1988; 67 FR 78149, Dec. 23, 2002; 73 FR 78613, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19612, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.22
Accounting records.
(a) The accounting records required by § 75.21 shall include, for each IAEA material balance area:
(1) All inventory changes, so as to permit a determination of the book inventory at any time;
(2) All measurement results that are used for determination of nuclear material quantities; and
(3) All adjustments and corrections that have been made with respect to inventory changes, book inventories and physical inventories.
(b) The records shall show, for each batch of nuclear material: material identification, batch data and source data. The
batch data
means a separate listing of the total weight of each element of nuclear material (including, as specified in the license conditions, isotopic composition for special nuclear material) with plutonium and enriched uranium measured in grams and natural or depleted uranium and thorium measured in kilograms. The
source data
are the data, recorded during measurement or calibration or used to derive empirical relationships, which identify nuclear material and provide batch data.
(c) For each inventory change, the records shall show the date of the inventory change and, when appropriate, (1) the originating IAEA material balance area or the shipper, and (2) the receiving IAEA material balance area or the recipient.
§ 75.23
Operating records.
The operating records required by § 75.21 shall include, as appropriate, for each IAEA material balance area:
(a) Those operating data which are used to establish changes in the quantities and composition of nuclear material;
(b) The data obtained from the calibration of tanks and instruments and from sampling and analyses, the procedures employed to control the quality of measurements, and the derived estimates of random and systematic error;
(c) A description of the sequence of the actions taken in preparing for, and in taking, a physical inventory, to ensure that it is correct and complete; and
(d) A description of the actions taken to ascertain the magnitude and cause of any accidental or unmeasured loss that might occur.
§ 75.24
Retention of records.
(a) The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall retain as a record any request made pursuant to §§ 75.13(b)(1), 75.13(b)(4), and 75.21 and documents related to that request, which are either prepared or received by that entity, until the NRC terminates the license or certificate, or until the entity no longer possesses nuclear material, whichever occurs later. When records required by these sections are superseded, these records must be retained for 3 years after each change is made.
(b) The applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall retain the records referred to in §§ 75.22 and 75.23 for at least 5 years.
[83 FR 19612, May 4, 2018]

# IAEA Nuclear Material Exemptions and Terminations

# Source:
83 FR 19612, May 4, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.26
Exemption from IAEA safeguards.
(a) The U.S. Government may request from the IAEA an exemption from IAEA safeguards with respect to nuclear material of the following types:
(1) Source and special nuclear material in gram quantities or less as a sensing component in instruments;
(2) Nuclear material used in nonnuclear activities; and
(3) Plutonium with an isotopic concentration of plutonium-238 exceeding 80 percent.
(b) Nuclear material exempted under paragraph (a) of this section must not exceed the quantity limits specified in the Safeguards Agreements.
(c) The NRC shall provide a prompt notification of an exemption issued by the IAEA to the applicable licensee, certificate holder, or nuclear material outside facilities.
§ 75.27
Requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities after issuance of IAEA exemptions.
(a)
Licensees of facilities.
After the NRC has notified a licensee of a facility under § 75.26(c) that the IAEA has approved the exemption requested under § 75.26(a) of this part, the licensee:
(1) Shall submit reports to the NRC pursuant to §§ 75.6(c) and 75.31(a); and
(2) Shall not export any nuclear material identified under § 75.26 until the NRC notifies the licensee that IAEA safeguards under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement have been re-applied.
(b)
Licensees of locations.
A licensee of a location shall provide annual updates pursuant to § 75.11(c) following notification from the NRC that the IAEA has approved the exemption requested under § 75.26.
(c)
Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities.
After the NRC has notified a possessor of nuclear material outside facilities under § 75.6(c) that the IAEA has approved the exemption requested under § 75.26(a), a possessor of nuclear material outside facilities:
(1) Shall submit reports to the NRC pursuant to §§ 75.6(e) and 75.31(b); and
(2) Shall not export out of the U.S. Caribbean Territories any nuclear material identified under § 75.26 until the NRC notifies the possessor that IAEA safeguards under the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement have been re-applied.
(d)
Prohibition against commingling of nuclear material in storage.
Licensees of facilities, licensees of locations, and possessors of nuclear material outside facilities shall not store nuclear material exempted under § 75.26 together with nuclear material subject to Safeguards Agreements.
(e) Nuclear material exempted from IAEA safeguards under § 75.26 is not subject to inspections by the IAEA.
§ 75.28
Termination from IAEA safeguards.
(a) Upon request of the U.S. Government, the IAEA may terminate IAEA safeguards on nuclear material that has been consumed, or has been diluted in such a way that it is no longer usable for any nuclear activity relevant from the point of view of safeguards, or has become practicably irrecoverable.
(b) The NRC will notify the affected licensees, certificate holders, and nuclear material outside facilities of the IAEA's termination of IAEA safeguards.
§ 75.29
Requirements for facilities, locations, and nuclear material outside facilities after termination from IAEA safeguards.
(a)
Licensees of facilities.
A licensee of a facility shall submit an Inventory Change Report pursuant to §§ 75.6(c) and 75.31(a) following notification from the NRC that IAEA safeguards have been terminated as described in § 75.28.
(b)
Licensees of locations.
A licensee of a location shall provide annual updates pursuant to § 75.11(c) following notification from the NRC that IAEA safeguards have been terminated as described in § 75.28.
(c)
Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities.
A possessor of nuclear material outside facilities shall submit an Inventory Change Report pursuant
to §§ 75.6(e) and 75.31(b) following notification from the NRC that IAEA safeguards have been terminated as described in § 75.28.
(d) Nuclear material that has had IAEA safeguards terminated as described in § 75.28 is not subject to inspections by the IAEA.

# Reports
§ 75.31
General requirements.
(a) Each licensee or certificate holder who has been given notice by the NRC under § 75.7 that its facility has been identified under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement shall make, in an appropriate computer-readable format, an initial inventory report, and thereafter shall make accounting reports, with respect to the facility and, in addition, licensees or certificate holders who have been given notice, under § 75.7 that their facilities are subject to the application of IAEA safeguards, shall make the special reports described in § 75.36. These reports must be based on the records kept under § 75.21. At the request of the NRC, the licensee or certificate holder shall amplify or clarify any report with respect to any matter relevant to implementation of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement. Any amplification or clarification must be in writing and must be submitted, to the address specified in the request, within 20 days of the date of the request or other time as may be specified by the NRC.
(b) Each possessor of nuclear material outside facilities (possessor) subject to the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement shall make, in an appropriate computer-readable format, an initial inventory report in accordance with § 75.32 of this report. Thereafter, that possessor shall make accounting reports as described in §§ 75.33 through 75.35 and special reports as described in § 75.36. These reports must be based on the records kept under § 75.21(b). At the request of the NRC, the possessor shall amplify or clarify any report with respect to any matter relevant to implementation of the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement. Any amplification or clarification must be in writing and must be submitted, to the address specified in the request, within 20 days of the date of the request or other time as may be specified by the NRC.
[83 FR 19613, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.32
Initial inventory report.
(a)
Licensees of facilities.
The initial inventory report must show the quantities of nuclear material at a facility. The quantities reported in the initial inventory report must be accurate as of the last day of the calendar month in which the NRC gives notice to the licensee or certificate holder that an initial inventory report is required (the “inventory date” on DOE/NRC Form 742C).
(b)
Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities.
The initial inventory report must show the quantities of nuclear material outside facilities. The quantities reported in the initial inventory report must be accurate as of the last day of the calendar month in which the possessor of nuclear material outside facilities becomes subject to the requirements of this part (the “inventory date” on DOE/NRC Form 742C).
(c)
Initial inventory report.
The information in the initial inventory report may be based upon the accounting records. The initial inventory report must be submitted to the NRC on DOE/NRC Form 742C in accordance with the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 742C and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites:
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures
and
https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.
(d)
Report forms.
DOE/NRC Form 742C must be accompanied by DOE/NRC Form 740M if any batch of source material reported in DOE/NRC Form 742C is equal to or less than 0.4 kg.
(e)
Report submission.
The initial inventory report must be submitted to the NRC no later than 20 days after the inventory date.
[83 FR 19613, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.33
Accounting reports.
(a)(1) The accounting reports for each IAEA material balance area must consist of:
(i) Inventory Change Reports (Nuclear Material Transaction Report); and
(ii) Material status reports showing the material balance based on a physical inventory of nuclear material actually present.
(2) These prescribed computer-readable forms replace the following forms which have been submitted in paper form:
(i) The DOE/NRC Form 741; and
(ii) The DOE/NRC Form 742.
(b) The reports shall be based on data available as of the date of reporting and may be corrected at a later date, as required.
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 19629, May 9, 1984; 59 FR 35622, July 13, 1994; 73 FR 78613, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19613, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.34
Inventory change reports.
(a) Each licensee of a facility, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities who transfers nuclear material subject to IAEA safeguards shall submit an Inventory Change Report (Nuclear Material Transaction Report) to the NRC no later than the close of business the next working day after each transfer, in accordance with the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Each licensee of a facility, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities who receives nuclear material subject to IAEA safeguards shall submit an Inventory Change Report to the NRC. Inventory Change Reports for receipts must be submitted within 10 days after the material is received, in accordance with the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 741 and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites:
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures
and
https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.
(b) An Inventory Change Report (Nuclear Material Transaction Report) must specify identification and batch data for each batch of nuclear material, the date of the inventory change, and, as appropriate:
(1) The originating IAEA material balance area or the shipper; and
(2) The receiving IAEA material balance area or the recipient.
(3) Each person who receives any nuclear material from a foreign source shall complete both the supplier's and receiver's portion of DOE/NRC Form 741.
(4) Each person in the U.S. Caribbean Territories who receives nuclear material from the U.S. outside the U.S. Caribbean Territories shall complete both the supplier's and receiver's portion of DOE/NRC Form 741.
(c) An Inventory Change Report must be accompanied by DOE/NRC Form 740M whenever it is necessary to:
(1) Explain the inventory changes set forth in the operating records required by § 75.23; or
(2) Describe, to the extent specified in the license conditions, the anticipated operational program for the facility, including, but not limited to, the schedule for taking physical inventory.
(d) Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 741 and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites:
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures
and
https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.
[83 FR 19613, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.35
Material status reports.
(a) Each licensee of a facility, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities with nuclear materials subject to IAEA safeguards shall submit a material status report for each physical inventory taken in accordance with the material accounting and control procedures required by § 75.21. The material status report must include a DOE/NRC Form 742 and a DOE/NRC Form 742C, which lists all
batches separately and specifies material identification and batch data for each batch. The reports described in this section must be prepared and submitted in accordance with instructions in NUREG/BR-0006, NUREG/BR-0007, and NMMSS Report D-24.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in the license conditions, material status reports shall be submitted to the NRC as soon as possible, but in any event no later than 30 days after the start of the physical inventory.
(c) Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities must submit a material status report to the NRC every 12 calendar months, for a reporting period that commences on May 1st and concludes on April 30th of the next calendar year. The annual inventory report must be dated April 30th.
(d) A material status report must be accompanied by DOE/NRC Form 740M whenever it is necessary to:
(1) Describe the anticipated operational program;
(2) Provide additional explanation and clarification at the country, facility material balance area, report, or entry level;
(3) Provide additional explanation not accommodated in any of the data elements of DOE/NRC Form 742 or DOE/NRC Form 742C; or
(4) Report actual inventory values equal to or less than 0.4 kg of source material.
(e) Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 742, DOE/NRC Form 742C, and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites:
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures
and
https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.
[83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.36
Special reports.
(a) This section applies to licensees, certificate holders, and possessors of nuclear material outside facilities who:
(1) Have been given notice under § 75.7(a) that their facilities are subject to the application of IAEA safeguards, or
(2) Are subject to the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement.
(b) Each entity subject to this section shall immediately make a special report to the NRC, by telephone, if:
(1) There is a loss of nuclear material:
(i) In excess of specified limits, as stated in license conditions, for those entities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or
(ii) In any amount, for those entities described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section,
(2) There are unexpected changes in containment to the extent that unauthorized removal of nuclear material has become possible, or
(3) Reporting is required under a license condition.
[83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]

# Advanced Notification and Expenses
§ 75.43
Circumstances requiring advance notification.
(a) Each person subject to the Safeguards Agreements shall give advance written notification to the NRC regarding the international and domestic transfers specified in this section.
(b)
Exports.
Notification shall be given of any proposed shipment of nuclear material for peaceful purposes under an export license issued pursuant to part 110 of this chapter, in an amount exceeding one effective kilogram, directly or indirectly to any non-nuclear-weapon state (as referred to in Article III(2) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 21 U.S.T. 483). If the licensee anticipates that it will make two or more shipments for peaceful purposes, within any period of 90 days, directly or indirectly to destinations in the same non-nuclear-weapon state, notification shall be given of each shipment if the aggregate quantity of nuclear material to be transferred exceeds one effective kilogram.
2
2
All foreign countries, with the exception of the People's Republic of China, France, the Soviet Union, and the United Kingdom, are non-nuclear-weapon states. Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Article IX(3).
(c)
Imports.
(1) Notification shall be given (to the fullest extent possible on the basis of available information) with respect to nuclear material which
immediately prior to export is subject to safeguards, under an agreement with the IAEA, in the country from which the material, directly or indirectly, is being exported. Such notification is only required, however, if the quantities of nuclear material are as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) Notification shall be given with respect to any proposed import of nuclear material described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in an amount exceeding one effective kilogram. If the licensee anticipates that it will receive two or more shipments of such nuclear material, within any 90-day period from points of origin in the same country, notification shall be given with respect to each shipment if the aggregate quantity of such nuclear material to be received exceeds one effective kilogram.
(d)
Domestic transfers.
Notification must be given regarding any shipments of nuclear material (other than small quantities in the form of samples containing less than 0.01 effective kilogram per sample) to a non-eligible destination. As used in this paragraph, a
non-eligible destination
means any destination in the United States other than a facility on the Eligible Facilities List.
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 78613, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]
§ 75.44
Timing of advance notification.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, notification to the Commission, when required by § 75.43, must be given:
(1) In the case of exports and domestic transfers, at least 20 days in advance of the preparation of the nuclear material for shipment from the facility.
(2) In the case of imports, at least 12 days in advance of the unpacking of nuclear material at the facility.
(b) For a particular receipt or shipment of nuclear material, the Commission will approve a shorter notice period than that specified by paragraph (a) of this section, for good cause, if it determines that observing the specified notification period would result in delay in shipment or unpackaging.
(c) The licensee shall inform the Commission, by phone, as soon as possible, with respect to any delay in the receipt (or unpackaging) or the shipment (or preparation for shipment) of nuclear material for which advance notification is required. New dates should be provided, if known.
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008]
§ 75.45
Content of advance notification.
(a) The notifications required by § 75.43 must include the element weight of nuclear material being received or shipped, the chemical composition and physical form, the isotopic composition (to the extent specified by license conditions), the estimated date and place at the reporting facility where the nuclear material is to be unpackaged or prepared for shipment (and where the quantity and composition can be verified), the applicable IAEA material balance area at the reporting facility, the approximate number of items to be received or shipped, and the probable dates of receipt or shipment. The notification must indicate that the information is being supplied under § 75.43.
(b) The notifications required with respect to export and import shipments shall also include
(1) If available, a general description of containers (including, in the case of exports, features that would permit sealing);
(2) Destination of export as authorized under an export license issued pursuant to part 110 of this chapter, or origin of import (by country and, if known, place);
(3) Means of transport; and
(4) Expected date and place of arrival in the destination country (for exports) or in the United States (for imports).
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008]
§ 75.46
Expenses.
(a) Under the Safeguards Agreements, the IAEA undertakes to reimburse any person subject to this part for extraordinary expenses incurred as a result of its specific request provided that the IAEA has agreed in advance to
do so. The Safeguards Agreements also provide that the IAEA will reimburse that person for the cost of making additional measurements or taking samples at the specific request of an IAEA inspector.
(b) The NRC will inform persons subject to this part, by license condition or by other means (e.g., written communication), of those items of extraordinary expense that the IAEA has agreed in advance to reimburse.
(c) The NRC will inform persons subject to this part, by license condition or by other means (e.g., written communication), of the procedures to be used to document:
(1) An IAEA inspector's request for making additional measurements or taking additional samples; and
(2) An IAEA request for a particular action by the licensee that will give rise to reimbursable extraordinary expense.
(d) The NRC will take appropriate action to assist persons subject to this part regarding the reimbursement of any expense that, under the Safeguards Agreements, is to be borne by the IAEA.
[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]

# Enforcement
§ 75.51
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(l)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(c) The Commission may issue orders to secure compliance with the provisions of this part or to prohibit any violation of such provisions as may be proper to protect the common defense and security. Enforcement actions, including proceedings instituted with respect to Agreement State licensees, will be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in part 2, subpart B of this chapter. Only NRC licensees, however, are subject to license modification, suspension, or revocation as a result of enforcement action.
[57 FR 55079, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 75.53
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b., 161i., or 161o. of the Act. For purposes of criminal sanctions under section 223, all the regulations in Part 75 are issued under one or more of sections 161b., 161i., or 161o., except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) The regulations in Part 75 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 75.1, 75.2, 75.3, 75.4, 75.5, 75.7, 75.9, 75.12, 75.13, 75.15, 75.26, 75.27, 75.28, 75.29, 75.46, 75.51, and 75.53.
(c) Any provision in Part 75 that implements the “Protocol Additional to the Agreement between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America,” known as the “Additional Protocol,” signed by the United States on June 12, 1998, is not issued under sections 161b., 161i., or 161o, for the purposes of criminal sanctions under section 223.
[73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]
Pt. 76

# PART 76—CERTIFICATION OF GASEOUS DIFFUSION PLANTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
76.1
Purpose.
76.2
Scope.
76.4
Definitions.
76.5
Communications.
76.6
Interpretations.
76.7
Employee protection.
76.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval not required.
76.9
Completeness and accuracy of information.
76.10
Deliberate misconduct.
76.21
Certificate required.
76.22
Ineligibility of certain applicants.
76.23
Specific exemptions.

# Subpart B—Application
76.31
Periodic application requirement.
76.33
Application procedures.
76.35
Contents of application.
76.36
Renewals.
76.37
Federal Register notice.
76.39
Public meeting.
76.41
Record underlying decisions.
76.43
Date for decision.
76.45
Application for amendment of certificate.

# Subpart C—Certification
76.51
Conditions of certification.
76.53
Consultation with Environmental Protection Agency.
76.55
Timely renewal.
76.60
Regulatory requirements which apply.
76.62
Issuance of certificate and/or approval of compliance plan.
76.64
Denial of certificate or compliance plan.
76.65
Inalienability of certificates.
76.66
Expiration and termination of certificates.
76.68
Plant changes.
76.70
Post issuance.
76.72
Miscellaneous procedural matters.
76.74
Computation and extension of time.
76.76
Backfitting.

# Subpart D—Safety
76.81
Authorized use of radioactive material.
76.83
Transfer of radioactive material.
76.85
Assessment of accidents.
76.87
Technical safety requirements.
76.89
Criticality accident requirements.
76.91
Emergency planning.
76.93
Quality assurance.
76.95
Training.

# Subpart E—Safeguards and Security
76.111
Physical security, material control and accounting, and protection of certain information.
76.113
Formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material—Category I.
76.115
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance—Category II.
76.117
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance—Category III.
76.119
Security facility approval and safeguarding of National Security Information and Restricted Data.

# Subpart F—Reports and Inspections
76.120
Reporting requirements.
76.121
Inspections.
76.123
Tests.

# Subpart G—Enforcement
76.131
Violations.
76.133
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 122, 161, 193(f), 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2152, 2201, 2243(f), 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5846, 5851); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 76.22 is also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 193(f) (42 U.S.C. 2243(f)).
Section 76.35(j) also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 122 (42 U.S.C. 2152).

# Source:
59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 76.1
Purpose.
(a) This part establishes requirements that will govern the operation of those portions of the Portsmouth and Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plants located in Piketon, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky, respectively, that are leased by the United States Enrichment Corporation. These requirements are promulgated to protect the public health and safety from radiological hazards and provide for the common defense and security. This part also establishes the certification process that will be used to ensure compliance with the established requirements.
(b) The regulations contained in this part are issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 919); Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended (88 Stat. 1242); and Titles IX and XI of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 2923, 2951).
§ 76.2
Scope.
The regulations in this part apply only to those portions of the Portsmouth and Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plants leased by the Corporation, per the Lease Agreement between the Department of Energy and the United States Enrichment Corporation. This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to the Corporation or any contractor, or subcontractor any components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services that relate to the activities subject to this part that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 76.10.
§ 76.4
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat 919), and includes any amendments to the Act.
Administrative controls
means the provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, review and audit, and reporting necessary to ensure operation of the plant in a safe manner.
Agreement State
means any State with which the Commission has entered into an effective agreement under subsection 274b. of the Act.
Non-Agreement State
means any other State.
Alert
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a release of radioactive material[s] but that the release is not expected to require a response by an offsite response organization to protect persons offsite.
Atomic energy
means all forms of energy released in the course of nuclear fission or nuclear transformation.
Certificate of compliance or certificate
means a certificate of compliance issued pursuant to this part.
Classified matter
means documents or material revealing classified information.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Common defense and security
means the common defense and security of the United States.
Compliance plan
means a plan for achieving compliance approved pursuant to this part.
Corporation
means the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC), or its successor, a Corporation that is authorized by statute to lease the gaseous diffusion enrichment plants in Paducah, Kentucky, and Piketon, Ohio, from the department of Energy, or any person authorized to operate one or both of the gaseous diffusion plants, or other facilities, pursuant to a plan for the privatization of USEC that is approved by the President.
Department and Department of Energy (DOE)
means the Department of Energy established by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
), to the extent that the Department, or its duly authorized representatives, exercises functions formerly vested in the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, its Chairman, members, officers and components and transferred to the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration and to the Administrator thereof pursuant to Sections 104(b), (c), and (d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, (Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1233 at 1237, 42 U.S.C. 5814) and retransferred to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to Section 301(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565 at 577-578, 42 U.S.C. 7151).
Depleted uranium
means the byproduct residues from the uranium enrichment process in which the concentration of the isotope U
235
is less than that occurring in natural uranium.
Director
means the Director, or his or her designee, of the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Effective dose equivalent
means the sum of the products of the dose equivalent to the body organ or tissue and the weighting factors applicable to each of the body organs or tissues that are irradiated, as defined in 10 CFR Part 20 (§§ 20.1001 through 20.2402).
Effective kilograms of special nuclear material
means:
(1) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U-235 of 0.01 (1 percent) and above, its element weight in kilograms multiplied by the square of its
enrichment expressed as a decimal weight fraction; and
(2) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U-235 below 0.01 (1 percent), its element weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.0001.
Formula quantity
means strategic special nuclear material in any combination in a quantity of 5000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5(grams U-233 + grams plutonium).
Lease Agreement
means the agreement entered into as of July 1, 1993, and any subsequent revisions between the United States Department of Energy and the United States Enrichment Corporation.
Limiting conditions for operation
means the lowest functional capability or performance levels of structures, systems, components, and their support systems required for normal safe operation of the plant.
Limiting control settings
means settings for automatic alarm or protective devices related to those variables having significant safety functions.
National Security Information
means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12356 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
Person
means:
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government Agency other than the Commission or the Department, except that the Department shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to Section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, (88 Stat. 1244); any State or any political subdivision of or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and
(2) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Process
means a series of actions that achieves an end or result.
Produce,
when used in relation to special nuclear material, means:
(1) To manufacture, make, produce, or refine special nuclear material;
(2) To separate special nuclear material from other substances in which such material may be contained; or
(3) To make or to produce new special nuclear material.
Radioactive material
means source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct material, possessed, used, transferred, or disposed of under part 76.
Restricted Data
means all data concerning design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons, the production of special nuclear material, or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but does not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to Section 142 of the Act.
Safety limits
means those bounds within which the process variables must be maintained for adequate control of the operation and that must not be exceeded in order to protect the integrity of the physical system that is designed to guard against the uncontrolled release of radioactivity.
Sealed source
means any radioactive material that is encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of the radioactive material.
Security facility approval
means that a determination has been made by the NRC that a facility is eligible to use, process, store, reproduce, transmit, or handle classified matter.
Site area emergency
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a significant release of radioactive material and that could require a response by offsite response organizations to protect persons offsite.
Source material
means source material as defined in Section 11z. of the Act and in the regulations contained in part 40 of this chapter.
Special nuclear material
means:
(1) Plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, and any other material which the Commission, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 51 of the Act, determines to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or
(2) Any material artificially enriched in any of the foregoing, but does not include source material.
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than an amount of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, as defined in this section, but more than 15 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope), or 15 grams of uranium-233, or 15 grams of plutonium, or the combination of 15 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + (grams plutonium) + (grams U-233); or
(2) Less than 10,000 grams but more than 1000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope), or
(3) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched above natural but less than 10 percent in the U-235 isotope).
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material but more than 1000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope), or more than 500 grams of uranium-233 or plutonium, or in a combined quantity of more than 1000 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium); or
(2) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope).
Special nuclear material scrap
means the various forms of special nuclear material generated during chemical and mechanical processing, other than recycle material and normal process intermediates, which are unsuitable for use in their present form, but all or part of which will be used after further processing.
Strategic special nuclear material
means uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium.
Surveillance requirements
means requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection to ensure that the necessary quality of systems and components is maintained, that plant operation will be within the safety limits, and that the limiting conditions of operation will be met.
Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
is information whose unauthorized dissemination is prohibited under Section 148 of the Atomic Energy Act.
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes Puerto Rico and all territories and possessions of the United States.
Unreviewed safety question
means a change which involves any of the following:
(1) The probability of occurrence or the consequences of an accident or malfunction of equipment important to safety previously evaluated in the safety analysis report may be increased;
(2) A possibility for an accident or malfunction of a different type than any evaluated previously in the safety analysis report may be created; or
(3) The margin of safety as defined in the basis for any technical safety requirement is reduced.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6669, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.5
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent as follows:
(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;
(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or
(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making
electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(d) Classified communications shall be transmitted in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter or delivered by hand in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter to the NRC Headquarters' street address listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
[68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74981 Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018]
§ 76.6
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 76.7
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by the Corporation, a contractor, or a subcontractor of the Corporation against an employee for engaging in certain protected activities is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act or the Energy Reorganization Act.
(1) The protected activities include but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission or his or her employer information about alleged violations of either of the above statutes or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of the above statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the above statutes or under these requirements if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the above statutes; and
(v) Assisting or participating in, or attempting to assist or participate in, the protected activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee assistance or participation.
(3) This section has no application to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180 days after an alleged violation occurs by filing a complaint alleging the violation with the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraphs (a), (e), or (f) of this section by the Corporation, or a contractor or subcontractor of the Corporation may be grounds for:
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the certificate.
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the Corporation or a contractor or subcontractor of the Corporation.
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer or others which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscrimination grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) The Corporation shall prominently post the revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in 10 CFR 19.11(c). This form must be posted at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. Premises must be posted during the term of the certificate and for 30 days following certificate termination.
(2) The Corporation shall notify its contractors of the prohibition against discrimination for engaging in protected activities.
(3) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the NRC Region III Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision which would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section including, but not limited to, providing information to the NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 63 FR 15744, Apr. 1, 1998; 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999; 68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 63975, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30460, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66606, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 76.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval not required.
The information collection requirements contained in this part of limited applicability apply to a wholly-owned instrumentality of the United States and affect fewer than ten respondents. Therefore, Office of Management and Budget clearance is not required pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
[62 FR 52190, Oct. 6, 1997]
§ 76.9
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission or information required by statute or by the Commission's rules, regulations, standards, orders, or other conditions to be maintained by the Corporation must be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) The Corporation shall notify the Commission of information identified as having for the regulated activity a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. The Corporation violates this paragraph only if the Corporation fails to notify the Commission of information that the Corporation has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification must be provided to the Administrator of NRC's Region III Office within 2 working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information which is already required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.10
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) The Corporation or any employee of the Corporation and any contractor (including a supplier or consultant), subcontractor, or any employee of a
contractor or subcontractor, who knowingly provides to the Corporation, or any contractor or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to the Corporation's activities subject to this part; may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or, but for detection, would have caused, the Corporation to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order, or any term, condition, or limitation of a certificate or approval issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to the NRC, the Corporation, or its contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to the NRC.
(b) A person who violates paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause the Corporation to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order, or any term, condition, or limitation of a certificate or approved compliance plan issued by the Director; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order or policy of the Corporation, contractor, or subcontractor.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6669, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.21
Certificate required.
(a) The Corporation or its contractors may not operate the gaseous diffusion plants at Piketon, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky, unless an appropriate certificate of compliance, and/or an approved compliance plan is in effect under this part. Unless authorized by the NRC under other provisions of this chapter, a person other than the Corporation or its contractors may not acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use, or transfer radioactive material at the gaseous diffusion plants at Piketon, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky.
(b) For the purposes of §§ 30.41, 40.51, and 70.42 of this chapter, the Corporation shall be authorized to receive, and licensees shall be authorized to transfer to the Corporation, byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material to the extent permitted under the certificate of compliance issued, and/or the compliance plan approved, pursuant to this part.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6669, Feb. 12, 1997; 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.22
Ineligibility of certain applicants.
A certificate of compliance may not be issued to the Corporation if the Commission determines that:
(a) The Corporation is owned, controlled, or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or a foreign government; or
(b) The issuance of such a certificate of compliance would be inimical to—
(1) The common defense and security of the United States; or
(2) The maintenance of a reliable and economical domestic source of enrichment services.
[62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.23
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon its own initiative or upon application of the Corporation, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the certification regulations as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life, or property, or the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest.

# Subpart B—Application
§ 76.31
Periodic application requirement.
The Corporation shall periodically apply to the Commission for a certificate of compliance, in accordance with § 76.36, on or before April 15 of the year specified in an existing certificate of compliance as determined by the Commission, but not less frequently than every 5 years.
[62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.33
Application procedures.
(a)
Filing requirements.
(1) An application for a certificate of compliance
must be tendered by filing the application with the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, with copies sent to the NRC Region III Office and appropriate resident inspector, in accordance with § 76.5. If the application is to be submitted electronically, see Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the Commission at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.
(2) The application must include the full name, address, age (if an individual), and citizenship of the applicant. If the applicant is a corporation or other entity, the application must indicate the State where it was incorporated or organized; the location of the principal office; and the names, addresses, and citizenship of its principal officers. The applicant shall include any known information concerning the control or ownership, if any, exercised over the applicant by any alien, foreign corporation, or foreign government.
(b)
Oath or affirmation.
An application for a certificate of compliance must be executed in a signed original by a duly authorized officer of the Corporation under oath or affirmation.
(c)
Pre-filing consultation.
The Corporation may confer with the Commission's staff before filing an application.
(d)
Additional information.
At any time during the review of an application, the Corporation may be required to supply additional information to the Commission's staff to enable the Commission or the Director, as appropriate, to determine whether the certificate should be issued or denied, or to determine whether a compliance plan should be approved.
(e)
Withholdable information.
If an application contains Restricted Data, National Security Information, Safeguards Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, proprietary data, or other withholdable information, the applicant shall ensure that the withholdable information is separate from the information to be made publicly available.
[64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 76.35
Contents of application.
The application for a certificate of compliance must include the information identified in this section.
(a) A safety analysis report which must include the following information:
(1) The activities and locations involving special nuclear material and the general plan for carrying out these activities;
(2) The name, amount, and specifications (including the chemical and physical form and, where applicable, isotopic content) of the special nuclear material, source and byproduct material the Corporation proposes to use, possess or produce, including any material held up in equipment from previous operations;
(3) The qualifications requirements, including training and experience, of the Corporation's management organization and key individuals responsible for safety in accordance with the regulations in this chapter;
(4) An assessment of accidents based on the requirements of § 76.85;
(5) A training program that meets the requirements of § 76.95;
(6) A description of equipment and facilities which will be used by the Corporation to protect health and minimize danger to life or property (such as handling devices, working areas, shields, measuring and monitoring instruments, devices for the treatment and disposal of radioactive effluent and wastes, storage facilities, provisions for protection against natural phenomena, fire protection systems, criticality accident alarm systems, etc.);
(7) A description of the management controls and oversight program to ensure that activities directly relevant to nuclear safety and safeguards and security are conducted in an appropriately controlled manner that ensures protection of employee and public health and safety and protection of the national security interests; and
(8) A description of the plant site, and a description of the principal structures, systems, and components of the plant.
(b) A plan prepared and approved by DOE for achieving compliance with respect to any areas of noncompliance with the NRC's regulations that are
identified by the Corporation as of the date of the application that includes:
(1) A description of the areas of noncompliance;
(2) A plan of actions and schedules for achieving compliance; and
(3) A justification for continued operation with adequate safety and safeguards.
(c) Any relevant information concerning deviations from the published Environmental Impact Statement, Environmental Assessments, or environmental permits under which the plants currently operate from which the Commission can prepare an environmental assessment related to the compliance plan.
(d) A quality assurance program that meets the requirements of § 76.93.
(e) Technical safety requirements in accordance with § 76.87. A summary statement of the bases or reasons for the requirements, other than those covering administrative controls, must also be included in the application, but will not be considered part of the technical safety requirements.
(f) An emergency plan that meets the requirements of § 76.91.
(g) A compliance status report that includes the status of various State, local and Federal permits, licenses, approvals, and other entitlements, as described in § 51.45(d) of this chapter. The report must include environmental and effluent monitoring data.
(h) A fundamental nuclear material control plan which describes the measures used to control and account for special nuclear material that the Corporation uses, possesses, or has access to. The plan must describe, as appropriate:
(1) How formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material will be controlled and accounted for in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E;
(2) How special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance will be controlled and accounted for in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E; and
(3) How special nuclear material of low strategic significance will be controlled and accounted for in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E.
(i) A transportation protection plan which describes the measures used to protect shipments of special nuclear material of low strategic significance in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E when in transit offsite.
(j) A physical protection plan which describes the measures used to protect special nuclear material that the Corporation uses, possesses, or has access to at fixed sites. The plan must describe, as appropriate:
(1) How formula quantities of special nuclear material will be protected against both theft and radiological sabotage in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E;
(2) How special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance will be protected in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E;
(3) How special nuclear material of low strategic significance will be protected in accordance with the relevant requirements of subpart E; and
(4) The measures used to protect special nuclear material while in transit between protected areas, all of which are located on a single fixed site under the control of the applicant. The level of protection afforded the material while in transit may not be less than that afforded the same material while it was within the protected area from which transit began.
(k) A plan describing the facility's proposed security procedures and controls as set forth in § 95.15(b) of this chapter for protection of classified matter.
(l)(1) In response to a written request by the Commission, each applicant for a certificate and each recipient of a certificate shall submit facility information, as described in § 75.10 of this chapter, on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms and site information on DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms;
(2) As required by the Additional Protocol, shall submit location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms; and
(3) Shall permit verification thereof by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA); and shall take other
action as may be necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in Part 75 of this chapter.
(m) A description of the program, as appropriate, for processing, management, and disposal of mixed and radioactive wastes and depleted uranium generated by operations. This description must be limited to processing, management, and disposal activities conducted during operation of the facilities while under lease to the Corporation. The application must also include a description of the waste streams generated by enrichment operations, annual volumes of depleted uranium and waste expected, identification of radioisotopes contained in the waste, physical and chemical forms of the depleted uranium and waste, plans for managing the depleted uranium and waste, and plans for ultimate disposition of the waste and depleted uranium before turnover of the facilities to the Department of Energy under the terms of the lease agreement between the United States Enrichment Corporation and the Department.
(n) A description of the funding program to be established to ensure that funds will be set aside and available for those aspects of the ultimate disposal of waste and depleted uranium, decontamination and decommissioning, relating to the gaseous diffusion plants leased to the Corporation by the Department of Energy, which are the financial responsibility of the Corporation. The Corporation shall establish financial surety arrangements to ensure that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate disposal of waste and depleted uranium, and decontamination and decommissioning activities which are the financial responsibility of the Corporation. The funding mechanism, such as prepayment, surety, insurance, or external sinking fund, must ensure availability of funds for any activities which are required to be completed both before or after the return of the gaseous diffusion facilities to the department of Energy in accordance with the lease between the Department and the Corporation. The funding program must contain a basis for cost estimates used to establish funding levels and must contain means of adjusting cost estimates and associated funding levels over the duration of the lease. The funding program need not address funding for those aspects of decontamination and decommissioning of the gaseous diffusion plants assigned to the Department of Energy under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. The Corporation should address the adequacy of the financing mechanism selected in its periodic application for certification.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997; 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999; 73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 76.36
Renewals.
(a) The Corporation shall file periodic applications for renewal, as required by § 76.31.
(b) Information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission may be referenced as part of the application, provided that the reference is clear and specific.
(c) An application for renewal is subject to the requirements in § 76.33 and must contain the following information:
(1) The information specified in § 76.35; or,
(2) A statement by the Corporation that the NRC may rely upon the information provided in the previous application(s) upon which the existing certificate is based, except for:
(i) Any proposed changes in the existing certificate of compliance conditions or technical safety requirements;
(ii) Any proposed changes to the documents submitted with the previous application in accordance with § 76.35;
(iii) Any changes which the Corporation has made without prior NRC approval pursuant to § 76.68; and,
(iv) Any changes to certificate conditions or technical safety requirements for which the Corporation has sought and received Commission approval pursuant to § 76.45.
(d) The changes which are submitted as part of an application for renewal in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, must be in the form of specific changes to the documentation specified
in § 76.35. The changes must be marked and dated for easy identification.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997; 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.37
Federal Register notice.
The Director may, at his or her discretion, publish in the
Federal Register
:
(a) A notice of the filing of an application specifying that copies of the application, except for Restricted Data, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, Classified National Security Information, Safeguards Information, Proprietary Data, or other withholdable information will be made available for the public inspection at the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov;
(b) A notice of opportunity for written public comment on the application for renewal; and
(c) The date of any scheduled public meeting regarding the application for renewal.
[64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 48955, Sept. 9, 1999]
§ 76.39
Public meeting.
(a) A public meeting will be held on an application for renewal if the Director, in his or her discretion, determines that a meeting is in the public interest with respect to a decision on the application for renewal.
(b) Conduct of public meeting.
(1) The Director shall conduct any public meeting held on the application for renewal.
(2) Public meetings will take place near the locale of the subject plant, unless otherwise specified by the Director.
(3) A public meeting will be open to all interested members of the public and be conducted as deemed appropriate by the Director.
(4) Members of the public will be given an opportunity during a public meeting to make their views regarding the application for renewal known to the Director.
(5) A transcript will be kept of each public meeting.
(6) No Restricted Data, Classified National Security Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, Safeguards Information, Proprietary Data, or other withholdable information may be introduced at the meeting.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.41
Record underlying decisions.
(a) Any decision of the Commission or its designee under this part in any proceeding regarding an application for a certificate must be based on information in the record and facts officially noticed in the proceeding.
(b) All public comments and correspondence in any proceeding regarding an application for a certificate must be made a part of the public docket of the proceeding, except as provided under 10 CFR 2.390.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 69 FR 2281, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 76.43
Date for decision.
The Director will render a decision on an application within 6 months of the receipt of the application unless the Director alters the date for decisions and publishes notice of the new date in the
Federal Register.
[62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.45
Application for amendment of certificate.
(a)
Contents of an amendment application.
In addition to the application for certification submitted under § 76.31, the Corporation may at any time apply for an amendment of the certificate to cover proposed new or modified activities. The amendment application should contain sufficient information for the NRC to make findings of compliance or acceptability for the proposed activities in the same manner as was required for the original certificate.
(b)
Oath or affirmation.
An application for an amendment of the certificate of compliance must be executed in a signed original by the Corporation under oath or affirmation.
(c)
Amendment application determinations.
If the NRC staff approves an application for a certificate amendment, it will be effective on a date specified by the NRC staff. If an application for a certificate amendment is not approved by the NRC staff, the Corporation will be informed in writing. The
NRC staff may, at its discretion, publish notice of its determination on an amendment application in the
Federal Register.
(d)
Request for review of staff's determination on an amendment application.
The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected, may file a petition requesting the Director's review of an NRC staff determination on an amendment application. A petition requesting the Director's review may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 30 days after the date of the NRC staff's determination. Any person described in this paragraph may file a written response to a petition requesting the Director's review. This response may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 15 days after the filing date of the petition requesting the Director's review. The Director may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the NRC staff's amendment determination by providing a written basis for the action. If the Director does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 60 days after receiving the petition for review, the NRC staff's determination on the amendment application remains in effect.
(e)
Request for review of a Director's decision.
The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected and who filed a petition for review or filed a response to a petition for review under § 76.45(d), may file a petition requesting the Commission's review of a Director's decision on an amendment application.
(1) A petition requesting the Commission's review may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 30 days after the date of the Director's decision. A petition requesting the Commission's review may be either:
(i) Delivered to the Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff of the Office of the Secretary at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852; or
(ii) Sent by mail or telegram to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, Attention: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff.
(2) Any person described in paragraph (e) of this section may file a written response to a petition requesting the Commission's review. This response may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 15 days after the filing date of the petition requesting the Commission's review.
(3) The Commission may adopt, by order, further procedures that, in its judgment, would serve the purpose of review of the Director's decision. The Commission may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the Director's amendment review decision and will state the basis of its action in writing. If the Commission does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 90 days after receiving the petition for review, the Director's decision, under § 76.45(d), on the amendment application remains in effect.
[64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999]

# Subpart C—Certification
§ 76.51
Conditions of certification.
The Corporation shall comply with the certificate of compliance, any approved compliance plan, and the requirements set forth and referenced in this part, except as may be modified by the certificate or approved compliance plan.
§ 76.53
Consultation with Environmental Protection Agency.
In reviewing an application for a certificate, including the provisions of any compliance plan, the Director shall consult with the Environmental Protection Agency and solicit the Environmental Protection Agency's written comments on the application.
§ 76.55
Timely renewal.
In any case in which the Corporation has timely filed a sufficient application for a certificate of compliance, the existing certificate of compliance or approved compliance plan does not expire until the application for a certificate of compliance has been finally determined by the NRC. For purposes of this rule, a sufficient application is one that addresses all elements of § 76.36.
[62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.60
Regulatory requirements which apply.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will use the following requirements for certification of the Corporation for operation of the gaseous diffusion plants:
(a) The Corporation shall provide for adequate protection of the public health and safety and common defense and security.
(b) The Corporation shall comply with the provisions of this part.
(c) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 19, “Notices, Instructions and Reports to Workers: Inspection and Investigations,” with the following modifications:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The Corporation shall post NRC Form 3 during the term of the certificate and for 30 days following certificate termination.
(d) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 20, “Standards for Protection Against Radiation,” with the following modifications:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The Corporation shall comply with the requirements in this part or as specified in an approved plan for achieving compliance.
(e) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 21, “Reporting of Defects and Noncompliance,” with the following modifications:
(1) The Corporation shall comply with the requirements in §§ 21.6 and 21.21.
(2) Under § 21.31, procurement documents issued by the Corporation must specify that the provisions of 10 CFR Part 21 apply.
(f) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR Part 26, “Fitness-for-Duty Programs.” The requirements of this section apply only if the Corporation elects to engage in activities involving formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material. When applicable, the requirements apply only to the Corporation and personnel carrying out the activities specified in § 26.4(d)(1) through (5), of this chapter.
(g) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 71, “Packaging and Transportation of Radioactive Material.”
(h) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions for physical security and material control and accounting as specified in subpart E to this part and contained in 10 CFR part 70, “Domestic Licensing of Special Nuclear Material,” part 73, “Physical Protection of Plants and Materials,” and part 74, “Material Control and Accounting of Special Nuclear Material.” The requirements in these parts address safeguards for three different kinds of nuclear material: Special nuclear material of low strategic significance (Category III), special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance (Category II), and formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I). The requirements for Category III material apply to the production of low enriched uranium. The requirements for Category II and Category I material apply only if the Corporation elects to engage in activities that involve these kinds of material and then only to the situations and locations that involve these kinds of material.
(i) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 95, “Security Facility Approval and Safeguarding of National Security Information and Restricted Data,” as specified in subpart E to this part.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997; 64 FR 44650, Aug. 17, 1999; 74 FR 45545, Sept. 3, 2009]
§ 76.62
Issuance of certificate and/or approval of compliance plan.
(a) Upon a finding of compliance with the Commission's regulations for issuance of a certificate and/or approval of a compliance plan, the Director shall issue a written decision explaining the decision. The Director may issue a certificate of compliance covering those areas where the Corporation is in compliance with applicable Commission requirements and approve a compliance plan for the remaining areas, if any, of noncompliance. The Director may impose any appropriate terms and conditions.
(b) The Director shall publish notice of the decision in the
Federal Register.
(c) The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected, may file a petition, not to exceed 30 pages, requesting review of the Director's decision. This petition must be filed with the Commission not later than 30 days after publication of the
Federal Register
notice. Any person described in this paragraph may file a response to any petition for review, not to exceed 30 pages, within 15 days after the filing of the petition. If the Commission does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 90 days after the publication of the
Federal Register
notice, the Director's decision remains in effect. The Commission may adopt, by order, further procedures that, in its judgment, would serve the purpose of review of the Director's decision.
(d) The Commission may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the Director's decision and will state the basis of its action in writing.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 44650, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.64
Denial of certificate or compliance plan.
(a) The Director may deny an application for a certificate of compliance or not approve a compliance plan upon a written finding that the application is in noncompliance with one or more of the Commission's requirements for the plant, or that the compliance plan is inadequate to protect the public health and safety or the common defense and security.
(b) The Director shall publish notice of the decision in the
Federal Register.
(c) Before a denial of an application for a certificate of compliance, the Director shall advise the Corporation and the Department in writing of any areas of noncompliance with the Commission's regulations and offer the Department or the Corporation an opportunity to submit a proposed compliance plan prepared by the Department regarding the identified areas of noncompliance. The Director shall take this action even if the Department or the Corporation has previously submitted a proposed compliance plan addressing in whole or in part the identified areas of noncompliance.
(d) The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected, may file a petition for review, not to exceed 30 pages, requesting review of the Director's decision. This petition for review must be filed with the Commission not later than 30 days after publication of the
Federal Register
notice. Any person described in this paragraph may file a response to any petition for review, not to exceed 30 pages, within 15 days after the filing of the petition for review. If the Commission does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 90 days after the publication of the
Federal Register
notice, the Director's decision remains in effect. The Commission may adopt, by order, further procedures that, in its judgment, would serve the purpose of review of the Director's decision.
(e) The Commission may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the Director's decision and will state the basis of its action in writing.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 44650, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.65
Inalienability of certificates.
The certificate granted under the regulations in this part may not be transferred, assigned, or in any manner disposed of, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of any certificate to any person unless the Commission, after securing full information, finds that the transfer is in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and consents in writing.
§ 76.66
Expiration and termination of certificates.
(a) Except as provided in § 76.55, each certificate or approval issued pursuant to this part expires at the end of the day, in the month and year stated in the certificate or approval.
(b) The Corporation shall notify the Commission promptly, in writing under § 76.5, when the Corporation decides to terminate operation at either of the
gaseous diffusion plants and other activities authorized under the certificate.
(c) If the Corporation does not submit a renewal application under § 76.36, the Corporation shall, on or before the expiration date specified in the existing certificate, terminate operation of the gaseous diffusion plants.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.68
Plant changes.
(a) The Corporation may make changes to the plant or to the plant's operations as described in the safety analysis report without prior Commission approval provided all the provisions of this section are met:
(1) The Corporation shall conduct a written safety analysis which demonstrates that the changes would not result in undue risk to public health and safety, the common defense and security, or to the environment.
(2) The changes must be authorized by responsible management and approved by a safety review committee.
(3) The changes may not decrease effectiveness of the plant's safety, safeguards, and security programs.
(4) The changes may not involve a change in any condition to the certificate of compliance.
(5) The changes may not involve a change to any condition to the approved compliance plan.
(6) The changes may not involve an unreviewed safety question.
(b) To ensure that the approved application remains current with respect to the actual site description and that the plant's programs, plans, policies, and operations are in place, the Corporation shall submit revised pages to the approved application and safety analysis report, marked and dated to indicate each change. The Corporation shall evaluate any as-found conditions that do not agree with the plant's programs, plans, policies, and operations in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. These revisions must be submitted before April 15 of each calendar year, or at a shorter interval as may be specified in the certificate. If a renewal application for a certificate is filed in accordance with § 76.36 of this part, the revisions shall be incorporated into the application.
(c) The Corporation shall maintain records of changes in the plant and of changes in the programs, plans, policies, procedures and operations described in the approved application, and copies of the safety analyses on which the changes were based. The records of plant changes must be retained until the end of the duration of the lease. The records of changes in programs, plans, policies, procedures, and operations and copies of the safety analysis on which the changes were based must be retained for a period of 2 years.
(d) The Corporation may at any time apply under § 76.45 for amendment of the certificate to cover proposed new or modified activities not permitted by paragraph (a) of this section.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.70
Post issuance.
(a)
Amendment of certificate terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions of a certificate of compliance or an approved compliance plan are subject to modification by reason of amendments to the Act, or by reason of rules, regulations, or orders issued in accordance with the Act.
(b)
Revocation, suspension, or amendments for cause.
A certificate of compliance or a compliance plan may be revoked, suspended, or amended, in whole or in part for:
(1) Any material false statement in the application or statement of fact required by the Commission in connection with the application;
(2) Conditions revealed by the application, or any report, record, inspection, or other means which would warrant the Commission to refuse to grant a certificate or approve a compliance plan on an original application; and
(3) Violation of, or failure to observe any of, the applicable terms and conditions of the Act, or the certificate of compliance, the compliance plan, or any rule, regulation, or order of the Commission.
(c)
Procedures governing amendment, revocation, suspension, or imposing requirements by order.
(1) Except in cases of willfulness or those in which the
public health interest, common defense and security, or safety requires otherwise, no certificate of compliance or compliance plan may be amended, suspended, or revoked unless before the institution of proceedings therefore, facts or conduct which may warrant the action must have been called to the attention of the Corporation in writing and the Corporation shall have been accorded an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with the lawful requirements related to such action.
(2) The Commission may institute a proceeding to modify, suspend, or revoke a certificate or take such other action as may be proper by serving on the Corporation or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission an order that will:
(i) Allege the violations with which the Corporation or other person subject to the Commission's jurisdiction is charged, or the potentially hazardous conditions or other facts deemed to be sufficient ground for the proposed action, and specify the action proposed;
(ii) Provide that the Corporation or other person who is charged must, and other interested persons may, submit a written response to the order within a reasonable period after publication of the order as may be specified in the order;
(iii) Specify the issues for resolution should the order be contested;
(iv) State the effective date of the order; if the Commission finds the public health, common defense and security, or safety, so require or that the violation or conduct causing the violation is willful, the order may provide that the proposed action be immediately effective pending further order and include a statement of reasons for making the proposed action immediately effective;
(v) Provide that the Commission may make a final decision after consideration of the written submissions or may in its discretion adopt by order, upon the Commission's own initiative or at the request of the Corporation or an interested person, further procedures for a hearing of the issues before making a final enforcement decision. These procedures may include requirements for further participation in the proceeding, such as the requirements for intervention under Part 2, subparts C, G or L of this chapter. Submission of written comments by interested persons do not constitute entitlement to further participation in the proceeding. Further procedures will not normally be provided for at the request of an interested person unless the person is adversely affected by the order.
(3) The Corporation or other person to whom the Commission has issued an immediately effective order may, in addition to submitting a written response, move the Commission to set aside the immediate effectiveness of the order on the ground that the order, including the need for immediate effectiveness, is not based on adequate evidence but on mere suspicion, unfounded allegations, or error. The motion must state with particularity the reasons why the order is not based on adequate evidence and must be accompanied by affidavits or other evidence relied on. The NRC staff shall respond within 5 days of the receipt of the motion.
(d)
Notice of violation.
(1) In response to an alleged violation of any provision of the Act or NRC regulations or the conditions of a certificate, compliance plan, or an order issued by the Commission, the Commission may serve on the Corporation or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission a written notice of violation. A separate notice may be omitted if an order or demand for information pursuant to this section is issued that otherwise identifies the apparent violation. The notice of violation will concisely state the alleged violation and will require the Corporation or other person subject to it, within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice or other specified time, to submit a written explanation or statement in reply including:
(i) Corrective steps which have been taken by the Corporation or other person and the results achieved;
(ii) Corrective steps which will be taken; and
(iii) The date when full compliance will be achieved.
(2) The notice may require the Corporation or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission to admit or deny the violation and to state the reasons for the violation, if
admitted. It may provide that, if an adequate reply is not received within the time specified in the notice, the Commission may issue an order or a demand for information as to why the certificate should not be modified, suspended, or revoked or why such other action as may be proper should not be taken.
(e)
Additional information.
At any time after the granting of a certificate of compliance or approval of a compliance plan, the Commission may require further statements from the Corporation, signed under oath or affirmation, in order to enable the Commission to determine whether the certificate or approved compliance plan should be modified or revoked.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 69 FR 2281, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 76.72
Miscellaneous procedural matters.
(a) The filing of any petitions for review or any responses to these petitions are governed by the procedural requirements set forth in 10 CFR 2.302(a) and (c), 2.304, 2.305, 2.306, and 2.307. Additional guidance regarding the filing and service of petitions for review of the Director's decision and responses to these petitions may be provided in the Director's decision or by order of the Commission.
(b) The Secretary of the Commission has the authority to rule on procedural matters set forth in 10 CFR 2.346.
(c) There are no restrictions on ex parte communications or on the ability of the NRC staff and the Commission to communicate with one another at any stage of the regulatory process, with the exception that the rules on ex parte communications and separation of functions set forth in 10 CFR 2.347 and 2.348 apply to proceedings under 10 CFR Part 2 for imposition of a civil penalty.
(d) The procedures set forth in 10 CFR 2.205, and in 10 CFR part 2, subparts C, G, L and N will be applied in connection with NRC action to impose a civil penalty pursuant to Section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the implementing regulations in 10 CFR part 21 (Reporting of Defects and Noncompliance), as authorized by section 1312(e) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(e) The procedures set forth in 10 CFR 2.206 apply to a request by any person to institute a proceeding pursuant to § 76.70 to amend, revoke, or suspend a certificate of compliance or approved compliance plan, or for such other action as may be proper.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6670, Feb. 12, 1997; 69 FR 2281, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 76.74
Computation and extension of time.
(a) In computing any period of time, the day of the act, event or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday at the place where the action or event is to occur, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor holiday.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, whenever an act is required or allowed to be done at or within a specified time, the time fixed or the period of time prescribed may for good cause be extended or shortened by the Commission.
§ 76.76
Backfitting.
(a)(1) Backfitting is defined as the modification of, or addition to, systems, structures, or components of a plant; or to the procedures or organization required to operate a plant; any of which may result from a new or amended provision in the Commission rules or the imposition of a regulatory staff position interpreting the Commission rules that is either new or different from a previous NRC staff position.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Commission shall require a systematic and documented analysis pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for backfits which it seeks to impose.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Commission shall require the backfitting of a plant only when it determines, based on the analysis described in paragraph (b) of
this section, that there is a substantial increase in the overall protection of the public health and safety or the common defense and security to be derived from the backfit and that the direct and indirect costs of implementation for that plant are justified in view of this increased protection.
(4) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section are inapplicable and, therefore, backfit analysis is not required and the standards in paragraph (a)(3) of this section do not apply where the Commission or staff, as appropriate, finds and declares, with appropriately documented evaluation for its finding, any of the following:
(i) That a modification is necessary to bring a plant into compliance with a certificate or the rules or orders of the Commission, or into conformance with written commitments by the Corporation; or
(ii) That regulatory action is necessary to ensure that the plant provides adequate protection to the health and safety of the public and is in accord with the common defense and security; or
(iii) That the regulatory action involves defining or redefining what level of protection to the public health and safety or common defense and security should be regarded as adequate.
(5) The Commission shall always require the backfitting of a plant if it determines that the regulatory action is necessary to ensure that the plant provides adequate protection to the health and safety of the public and is in accord with the common defense and security.
(6) The documented evaluation required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section must include a statement of the objectives of and reasons for the modification and the basis for invoking the exception. If immediate effective regulatory action is required, then the documented evaluation may follow, rather than precede, the regulatory action.
(7) If there are two or more ways to achieve compliance with a certificate or the rules or orders of the Commission, or with written Corporation commitments, or there are two or more ways to reach a level of protection which is adequate, then ordinarily the Corporation is free to choose the way which best suits its purposes. However, should it be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to prescribe a specific way to comply with its requirements or to achieve adequate protection, then cost may be a factor in selecting the way, provided that the objective of compliance or adequate protection is met.
(b) In reaching the determination required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Commission will consider how the backfit should be scheduled in light of other ongoing regulatory activities at the plant and, in addition, will consider information available concerning any of the following factors as may be appropriate and any other information relevant and material to the proposed backfit:
(1) Statement of the specific objectives that the proposed backfit is designed to achieve;
(2) General description of the activity that would be required by the Corporation in order to complete the backfit;
(3) Potential change in the risk to the public from the accidental release of radioactive material;
(4) Potential impact on radiological exposure of facility employees;
(5) Installation and continuing costs associated with the backfit, including the cost of plant downtime;
(6) The potential safety impact of changes in plant or operational complexity, including the relationship to proposed and existing regulatory requirements;
(7) The estimated resource burden on the NRC associated with the proposed backfit and the availability of such resources;
(8) The potential impact of differences in plant type, design, or age on the relevancy and practicality of the proposed backfit; and
(9) Whether the proposed backfit is interim or final and, if interim, the justification for imposing the proposed backfit on an interim basis.
(c) No certificate will be withheld during the pendency of backfit analyses required by the Commission's rules.
(d) The Executive Director for Operations shall be responsible for implementation of this section, and all analyses required by this section shall be
approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6671, Feb. 12, 1997]

# Subpart D—Safety
§ 76.81
Authorized use of radioactive material.
Unless otherwise authorized by law, the Corporation shall confine its possession and use of radioactive material to the locations and purposes covered by the certificate and/or approved compliance plan. Except as otherwise provided, the certificate or approved compliance plan issued pursuant to the requirements in this part entitles the Corporation to receive title to, own, acquire, receive, possess, and use radioactive material in accordance with the certificate.
§ 76.83
Transfer of radioactive material.
(a) The Corporation may not transfer radioactive material except as authorized pursuant to this section.
(b) Except as otherwise provided and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the Corporation may transfer radioactive material:
(1) From one component of the Corporation to another;
(2) To the Department;
(3) To the agency in any Agreement State which regulates radioactive materials pursuant to an agreement with the Commission under Section 274 of the Act, if the quantity transferred is not sufficient to form a critical mass;
(4) To any person exempt from the licensing requirements of the Act and requirements in this part, to the extent permitted under the exemption;
(5) To any person in an Agreement State, subject to the jurisdiction of that State, who has been exempted from the licensing requirements and regulations of that State, to the extent permitted under the exemption;
(6) To any person authorized to receive the radioactive material under terms of a specific license or a general license or their equivalents issued by the Commission or an Agreement State;
(7) To any person abroad pursuant to an export license issued under part 110 of this chapter; or
(8) As otherwise authorized by the Commission in writing.
(c) Before transferring radioactive material to any party specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Corporation shall verify that the transferee is authorized to receive the type, form, and quantity of radioactive material to be transferred.
(d) The following methods for the verification required by paragraph (c) of this section are acceptable:
(1) The Corporation may have in its possession and read a current copy of the transferee's specific license or confirmation of registration. The Corporation shall retain a copy of each license or confirmation for 3 years from the date that it was obtained.
(2) The Corporation may have in its possession a written confirmation by the transferee that the transferee is authorized by license or registration confirmation to receive the type, form, and quantity of special nuclear material to be transferred, specifying the license or registration confirmation number, issuing agency, and expiration date. The Corporation shall retain the written confirmation as a record for 3 years from the date of receipt of the confirmation;
(3) For emergency shipments, the Corporation may accept a certification by the transferee that he or she is authorized by license or registration certification to receive the type, form, and quantity of special nuclear material to be transferred, specifying the license or registration number, issuing agency, and expiration date, provided that the oral confirmation is confirmed in writing within 10 days. The Corporation shall retain the written confirmation of the oral certification for 3 years from the date of receipt of the confirmation;
(4) The Corporation may obtain other sources of information compiled by a reporting service from official records of the Commission or the licensing agency of an Agreement State as to the identity of licensees and the scope and expiration dates of licenses and registrations. The Corporation shall retain the compilation of information as
a record for 3 years from the date that it was obtained; or
(5) When none of the methods of verification described in paragraphs (d) (1) to (4) of this section are readily available or when the Corporation desires to verify that information received by one of these methods is correct or up to date, the Corporation may obtain and record confirmation from the Commission or the licensing agency of an Agreement State that the transferee is licensed to receive the special nuclear material. The Corporation shall retain the record of confirmation for 3 years from the date the record is made.
§ 76.85
Assessment of accidents.
The Corporation shall perform an analysis of potential accidents and consequences to establish the basis for limiting conditions for operation of the plant with respect to the potential for releases of radioactive material. Special attention must be directed to assurance that plant operation will be conducted in a manner to prevent or to mitigate the consequences from a reasonable spectrum of postulated accidents which include internal and external events and natural phenomena in order to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety. Plant operating history relevant to the assessment should be included. In performing this assessment, the full range of operations should be considered including, but not necessarily limited to, operation at the maximum capacity contemplated. The assessment must be performed using an expected release rate resulting from anticipated operational occurrences and accidents with existing systems and procedures intended to mitigate the release consequences, along with site characteristics, including meteorology, to evaluate the offsite radiological consequences.
§ 76.87
Technical safety requirements.
(a) The Corporation shall establish technical safety requirements. In establishing the requirements, the Corporation shall consider the analyses and results of the safety analysis report submitted pursuant to § 76.35.
(b) The format for the technical safety requirements must be appropriate for each individual requirement.
(c) Appropriate references to established procedures and/or equipment to address each of the following safety topics must be included in technical safety requirements:
(1) Effects of natural phenomena;
(2) Building and process ventilation and offgas;
(3) Criticality prevention;
(4) Fire prevention;
(5) Radiation protection;
(6) Radioactive waste management;
(7) Maintenance;
(8) Environmental protection;
(9) Packaging and transporting nuclear materials;
(10) Accident analysis;
(11) Chemical safety;
(12) Sharing of facilities, structures, systems and components;
(13) Utilities essential to radiological safety; and
(14) Operations.
(d) Technical safety requirements must include items in the following categories:
(1)
Safety limits.
(i) If any safety limit is exceeded, corrective action must be taken as stated in the response procedures associated with the technical safety requirements or the affected part of the process must be shut down unless this action would increase the risk to the health and safety of the public or plant personnel.
(ii) If any safety limit is exceeded, the Corporation shall notify the Commission if required by § 76.120, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence.
(iii) The Corporation shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission no longer has certification authority.
(2)
Limiting control settings.
(i) Where a limiting control setting is specified for a variable on which a safety limit has been placed, the setting must be so chosen that protective action, either automatic or manual, will correct the abnormal situation before a safety limit is exceeded. If, during operation,
the automatic alarm or protective devices do not function as required, appropriate action must be taken to maintain the variables within the limiting control-setting values and to repair promptly the automatic devices or to shut down the affected part of the process.
(ii) If, during operation, an automatic alarm or protective device does not function as required, the Corporation shall notify the Commission if required by 76.120, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence.
(iii) The Corporation shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission no longer has certification authority.
(3)
Limiting conditions for operation.
When a limiting condition for operation of any process step in the system is not met, the Corporation shall shut down that part of the operation or follow any remedial action permitted by the technical safety requirements until the condition can be met.
(i) If a limiting condition for operation of any process step in the system is not met, the Corporation shall notify the Commission if required by § 76.120, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence.
(ii) The Corporation shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission no longer has certification authority.
(4)
Design features.
Design features to be included are those systems, components, or structures of the plant which, if altered or modified, would have a significant effect on safety and are not covered in categories described in paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.
(5) Surveillance requirement.
(6) Administrative controls.
§ 76.89
Criticality accident requirements.
(a) The Corporation must maintain and operate a criticality monitoring and audible alarm system meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in all areas of the facility. The Corporation may describe for the approval of the Commission defined areas to be excluded from the monitoring requirement. This submittal must describe the measures that will be used to ensure against criticality, including kinds and quantities of material that will be permitted and measures that will be used to control those kinds and quantities of material.
(b) The system must detect and annunciate a criticality that produces an absorbed dose in soft tissue of 20 rads of combined neutron and gamma radiation at an unshielded distance of 2 meters from the reacting material within 1 minute. Coverage of all monitored areas must be provided by two detectors.
§ 76.91
Emergency planning.
The Corporation shall establish, maintain, and be prepared to follow a written emergency plan. The emergency plan submitted under § 76.35(f) must include the following information:
(a)
Plant description.
A brief description of the plant and area near the plant site.
(b)
Types of accidents.
An identification of each type of radioactive materials accident for which protective actions may be needed.
(c)
Classification of accidents.
A system for classifying accidents as alerts or site area emergencies.
(d)
Detection of accidents.
Identification of the means of detecting each type of accident in a timely manner.
(e)
Mitigation of consequences.
A brief description of the means and equipment for mitigating the consequences of each type of accident, including those provided to protect workers onsite, and a description of the program for maintaining the equipment.
(f)
Assessment of releases.
A brief description of the methods and equipment to assess releases of radioactive materials.
(g)
Responsibilities.
A brief description of the responsibilities of all individuals supporting emergency response should an accident occur, including identification of personnel responsible for promptly notifying offsite response organizations and the NRC, as well as a
brief description of responsibilities for developing, maintaining, and updating the plan.
(h)
Notification and coordination.
A commitment to and a brief description of the means to promptly notify offsite response organizations, including the request for offsite assistance and medical assistance for the treatment of contaminated injured onsite workers when appropriate. A control point must be established. The notification and coordination must be planned so that unavailability of some personnel, parts of the plant, and some equipment does not prevent the notification and coordination. The Corporation shall also commit to notify the NRC Operations Center immediately after notification of the appropriate offsite response organizations and not later than 1 hour after the Corporation declares an emergency. These reporting requirements do not supersede or release the Corporation from complying with the requirements under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Public Law 99-499, or other State or Federal reporting requirements.
(i)
Information to be communicated.
A brief description of the plant status, radioactive releases, and recommended protective actions, if necessary, to be provided to offsite response organizations and to the NRC.
(j)
Training.
A brief description of the frequency, performance objectives, and plans for the training that the Corporation will provide workers on how to respond to an emergency including any special instructions, briefings, and orientation tours the Corporation would offer to fire, police, medical, and other emergency personnel. The training must familiarize personnel with site-specific emergency procedures. The training must also prepare site personnel for their responsibilities for the accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site, including the use of team training for these accident scenarios.
(k)
Safe shutdown.
A brief description of the means of restoring the plant to a safe condition after an accident.
(l)
Exercises.
Provisions for conducting quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations and biennial onsite exercises to test response to simulated emergencies. Quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations must include the check and update of all necessary telephone numbers. The Corporation shall invite offsite response organizations to participate in the biennial exercises. Participation of offsite response organizations in biennial exercises, although recommended, is not required. Exercises must use accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site and the accident scenarios must not be made known to most exercise participants. The Corporation shall critique each exercise using individuals that do not have direct implementation responsibility for the plan. Critiques of exercises must evaluate the appropriateness of the plan, emergency procedures, facilities, equipment, training of personnel, and overall effectiveness of the response. Deficiencies found by the critiques must be corrected.
(m)
Hazardous chemicals.
Confirmation that the Corporation has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Public Law 99-499, if applicable to the Corporation's activities at the proposed place of use of the special nuclear material.
(n)
Comment from offsite response organizations.
The Corporation shall allow the offsite response organizations that are expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. The Corporation shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.
(o)
Changes to emergency plan.
The Corporation may make changes to the emergency plan without prior Commission approval if the changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. The Corporation shall furnish these changes to the NRC in accordance with § 76.5 and to affected offsite response organizations within 6 months after the change is made.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 44650, Aug. 17, 1999]
§ 76.93
Quality assurance.
The Corporation shall establish, maintain, and execute a quality assurance program satisfying each of the applicable requirements of ASME NQA-1-1989, “Quality Assurance Program Requirements for Nuclear Facilities,” or satisfying acceptable alternatives to the applicable requirements. The Corporation shall execute the criteria in a graded approach to an extent that is commensurate with the importance to safety.
§ 76.95
Training.
A training program must be established, implemented, and maintained for individuals relied upon to operate, maintain, or modify the GDPs in a safe manner. The training program shall be based on a systems approach to training that includes the following:
(a) Systematic analysis of the jobs to be performed.
(b) Learning objectives derived from the analysis which describe desired performance after training.
(c) Training design and implementation based on the learning objectives.
(d) Evaluation of trainee mastery of the objectives during training.
(e) Evaluation and revision of the training based on the performance of trained personnel in the job setting.

# Subpart E—Safeguards and Security
§ 76.111
Physical security, material control and accounting, and protection of certain information.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations that will be used for certification of the Corporation
1
for physical security and material control and accounting are contained in title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations as described in this subpart. The regulations referenced in this subpart contain requirements for physical security and material control and accounting for formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I), special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance (Category II), and special nuclear material of low strategic significance (Category III), and for protection of Restricted Data, National Security Information, Safeguards Information, and information designated by the U.S. Department of Energy as Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information.
1
For the purpose of this subpart, the terms “licensee” or “license” used in parts 70, 73, and 74 of this chapter, mean, respectively, the Corporation, or the certificate of compliance or approved compliance plan.
[62 FR 6671, Feb. 12, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 76.113
Formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material—Category I.
(a) The requirements for material control and accounting for formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I) are contained in §§ 74.11, 74.13, 74.15, 74.17, 74.19, 74.51, 74.53, 74.55, 74.57, 74.59, 74.81, and 74.82 of this chapter.
(b) The requirements for physical security for formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I) are contained in §§ 70.22(h), 73.20, 73.40, 73.45, 73.46, 73.70, and 73.1200.
(c) The requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information pertaining to formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I) are contained in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this chapter. Information designated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) as Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information must be protected in accordance with DOE requirements.
(d) The Corporation may neither transport Category I material offsite nor deliver Category I material to a carrier for transport offsite.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6671, Feb. 12, 1997; 67 FR 78149, Dec. 23, 2002; 73 FR 63581, Oct. 24, 2008; 88 FR 15899, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 76.115
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance—Category II.
(a) The requirements for material control and accounting for special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance (Category II) are contained in §§ 74.11. 74.13, 74.15, 74.17, 74.19, 74.41, 74.43, 74.45, 74.81, and 74.82 of this chapter.
(b) The requirements for physical security for special nuclear material of
moderate strategic significance (Category II) are contained in §§ 73.67, and 73.1200 of this chapter.
(c) The Corporation may neither transport Category II material offsite nor deliver Category II material to a carrier for transport offsite.
(d) The requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information pertaining to special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance—Category II are contained in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this chapter. Information designated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) as Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information must be protected in accordance with DOE requirements.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 67 FR 78149, Dec. 23, 2002; 73 FR 63581, Oct. 24, 2008; 88 FR 15899, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 76.117
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance—Category III.
(a) The requirements for material control and accounting for special nuclear material of low strategic significance (Category III) are contained in §§ 74.11, 74.13, 74.15, 74.17, 74.19, 74.33, 74.81, and 74.82 of this chapter. However, inventories of uranium outside of the enrichment processing equipment conducted at least every 370 days are deemed to satisfy the requirements of § 74.19(c).
(b) The requirements for physical security for special nuclear material of low strategic significance (Category III) are contained in §§ 73.67, 73.74, and 73.1200 of this chapter.
(c) The requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information pertaining to special nuclear material of low strategic significance—Category III are contained in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this chapter. Information designated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) as Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information must be protected in accordance with DOE requirements.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 67 FR 78149, Dec. 23, 2002; 73 FR 63581, Oct. 24, 2008; 88 FR 15899, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 76.119
Security facility approval and safeguarding of National Security Information and Restricted Data.
The requirements for security facility approval and for safeguarding of classified matter are contained in part 95 of this chapter. For the purpose of this subpart, the term “licensee” or “license” used in part 95 of this chapter means, respectively, the corporation, or the certificate of compliance or approved compliance plan.

# Subpart F—Reports and Inspections
§ 76.120
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Immediate report.
The Corporation shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter within 1 hour after discovery of:
(1) A criticality event;
(2) Any loss, other than normal operating loss, of special nuclear material;
(3) Any theft or unlawful diversion of special nuclear material which the Corporation is authorized to possess or any incident in which an attempt has been made or is believed to have been made to commit a theft or unlawful diversion of special nuclear material; or
(4) An emergency condition that has been declared an alert or site area emergency.
(b)
Four-hour report.
The Corporation shall notify the NRC Operations Center as soon as possible but not later than 4 hours after discovery of an event
1
that prevents immediate protective actions necessary to avoid releases or exposures to radiation or radioactive materials that could exceed regulatory limits.
1
Events may include fires, explosions, radiological releases, etc.
(c)
Twenty-four hour report.
The Corporation shall notify the NRC Operations Center within 24 hours after the discovery of any of the following events involving radioactive material:
(1) An unplanned contamination event that:
(i) Requires access to the contaminated area, by workers or the public, to be restricted for more than 24 hours by imposing additional radiological controls or by prohibiting entry into the area;
(ii) Involves a quantity of material greater than five times the lowest annual limit on intake specified in appendix B to §§ 20.1001 through 20.2402 of 10 CFR part 20 for the material; and
(iii) Causes access to the contaminated area to be restricted for any reason other than to allow isotopes with a half-life of less than 24 hours to decay prior to decontamination.
(2) An event in which equipment is disabled or fails to function as designed when:
(i) The equipment is required by a Technical Safety Requirement to prevent releases, prevent exposures to radiation and radioactive materials exceeding specified limits, mitigate the consequences of an accident, or restore this facility to a preestablished safe condition after an accident;
(ii) The equipment is required by a Technical Safety Requirement to be available and operable and either should have been operating or should have operated on demand; and
(iii) No redundant equipment is available and operable to perform the required safety function.
(3) An event that requires unplanned medical treatment at a medical facility of an individual with radioactive contamination on the individual's clothing or body.
(4) A fire or explosion damaging any radioactive material or any device, container, or equipment containing radioactive material when:
(i) The quantity of material involved is greater than five times the lowest annual limit on intake specified in appendix B to §§ 20.1001 through 20.2402 of 10 CFR part 20 for the material; and
(ii) The damage affects the integrity of the radioactive material or its container.
(d)
Preparation and submission of reports.
Reports made by the Corporation in response to the requirements of this section must be made as follows:
(1)
Operations Center reports.
The Corporation shall make reports required by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section by telephone to the NRC Operations Center. To the extent that the information is available at the time of notification, the information provided in these reports must include:
(i) The caller's name and call back telephone number;
(ii) A description of the event, including date and time;
(iii) The exact location of the event;
(iv) The isotopes, quantities, and chemical and physical form of the material involved;
(v) Any personnel radiation exposure data available; and
(vi) A description of any actions taken in response to the event.
(2)
Written report.
A report required by paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this section must be followed by a written report within 30 days of the initial report. Written reports prepared pursuant to other regulations may be submitted to fulfill this requirement if the reports contain all of the necessary information and the appropriate distribution is made. These written reports must be sent to the NRC by an appropriate method listed in § 76.5. The reports must include the following information:
(i) A description of the event, including the probable cause and the manufacturer and model number (if applicable) of any equipment that failed or malfunctioned;
(ii) The exact location of the event;
(iii) A description of isotopes, quantities and chemical and physical form of the material involved;
(iv) The date and time of the event;
(v) The causes, including the direct cause, the contributing cause, and the root cause;
(vi) Corrective actions taken or planned and the results of any evaluations or assessments;
(vii) The extent of exposure of individuals to radiation or to radioactive materials without identification of individuals by name; and
(viii) Lessons learned from the event.
[59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 76.121
Inspections.
(a) The Corporation shall afford to the Commission opportunity to inspect the premises and plants under the Corporation's control where radioactive material is used, produced, or stored.
(b) The Corporation shall make available to the Commission for inspection
records kept pertaining to receipt, possession, use, acquisition, import, export, or transfer of radioactive material.
(c)(1) The Corporation shall provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of Commission inspection personnel upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Administrator. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets, and janitorial services must be furnished by the Corporation. The office must be convenient to and have full access to the plant, and must provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.
(2) The space provided must be adequate to accommodate the NRC resident inspection staff, a part-time secretary, and transient NRC personnel. Space must be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. The office space that is provided must be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Office. All furniture, supplies, and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.
(3) The Corporation shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site or other NRC inspectors identified by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Administrator, as likely to inspect the plant, immediate, unfettered access equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
§ 76.123
Tests.
The Corporation shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, any tests the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for administration of the requirements in this part. These tests include tests of:
(a) Radioactive material;
(b) Facilities where radioactive material is utilized, produced or stored;
(c) Radiation detection and monitoring instruments; and
(d) Other equipment and devices used in connection with the production, utilization, or storage of radioactive material.

# Subpart G—Enforcement
§ 76.131
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of:
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended;
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under Section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or under Section 1312(e) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, for violations of:
(1) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, 109, or 1701 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(3) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(4) Any term, condition, or limitation of any certificate of compliance or approved compliance plan issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[62 FR 6671, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 76.133
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under Section 161b or 161i of the Act. For purposes of Section 223, all the regulations in part 76 are issued under Section 161b or 161i except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 76 that are not issued under Section 161b or 161i for the purposes of Section 223 are as follows: §§ 76.1, 76.2, 76.4, 76.5, 76.6, 76.23, 76.33, 76.35, 76.37, 76.39, 76.41, 76.43, 76.45, 76.53, 76.55, 76.60, 76.62, 76.64, 76.70, 76.72, 76.131, and 76.133.
Pt. 81

# PART 81—STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE GRANTING OF PATENT LICENSES

# General Provisions
Sec.
81.1
Purpose.
81.2
Definitions.
81.3
Communications.
81.4
Interpretations.
81.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# NRC-Owned Inventions—Patents and Applications
81.10
Authority.
81.11
Policy.
81.13
Publication of NRC inventions available for licensing.
81.20
Nonexclusive licenses.
81.30
Limited exclusive licenses.
81.31
Selection of an exclusive licensee.
81.32
Terms of exclusive license grant.
81.35
Notices to public of exclusive licenses.
81.40
Contents of a license application.
81.50
Additional licenses.
81.51
Appeals.
81.52
Appeals Board.
81.53
Review by the Board.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 156, 161 (42 U.S.C. 2186, 2201); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
38 FR 7318, Mar. 20, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 81.1
Purpose.
The regulations of this part establish the standard specifications for the issuance of licenses to rights in inventions covered by patents or patent applications vested in the United States of America, as represented by or in the custody of the Commission and other patents in which the Commission has the right to accord or require the grant of licenses.
[40 FR 8793, Mar. 3, 1975]
§ 81.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 619), including any amendments thereto;
(b)
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as established by the Act, or its duly authorized designee. The Assistant General Counsel for Patents is the designee of the Commission under this subpart;
(c)
NRC invention
means an invention covered by a U.S. patent or patent application that is vested in the Government of the United States, as represented by or in the custody of the Commission, or in which the Government of the United States of America, as represented by the Commission, has the right to accord or require the grant of licenses where such invention is designated by the Commission as appropriate for the grant of a nonexclusive or exclusive license; and
(d)
To the point of practical application
means to manufacture in the case of composition, machine or product, to practice in the case of a process, or to operate in the case of a machine, under such conditions as to establish that the invention is being worked and that its benefits are reasonably accessible to the public.
(e)
NRC foreign invention
means an invention covered by a patent, or an application for a patent, issued by a government or authority of a country other than the United States that is vested in the Government of the United States, as represented by the Commission.
[38 FR 7318, Mar. 20, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 8241, Mar. 30, 1973]
§ 81.3
Communications.
All communications concerning the regulations in this part, including applications for licenses, should be sent to the NRC either by mail addressed to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing
the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[68 FR 58823, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74982, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 81.4
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing and by § 81.53, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by an officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 81.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0121.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 81.20, 81.32, and 81.40.
[55 FR 23422, June 8, 1990, as amended at 62 FR 52190, Oct. 6, 1997]

# NRC-Owned Inventions—Patents and Applications
§ 81.10
Authority.
The regulations of this subpart governing the licensing or rights in NRC inventions are issued pursuant to the authority of the Commission under 42 U.S.C. 2186 (sec. 156 of the Act), 42 U.S.C. 2201g (sec. 161g. of the Act), and according to regulations issued by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Memorandum and Statement of Government Patent Policy issued by President Nixon on August 23, 1971 (36 FR 16887).
§ 81.11
Policy.
(a) The inventions covered by the U.S. patents and patent applications vested in the Government of the United States of America, as represented by or in the custody of the Commission, normally will best serve the public interest when they are developed to the point of practical application and made available to the public in the shortest time possible.
(b) The Commission generally prefers to make these inventions available to all interested parties through the granting of nonexclusive licenses. However, the Commission recognizes that to obtain commercial utilization of an invention, it may be necessary to grant an exclusive license for a limited period of time as an incentive for the investment of risk capital to achieve practical application of an invention.
(c) Whenever the Commission deems it appropriate to grant an exclusive license, the license will be negotiated on terms and conditions most favorable to the interests of the public and the Government. In considering the accord of such a license, due weight will be given to assisting small business and minority business enterprises, as well as economically depressed, low income and labor surplus areas within the United States.
(d) All licenses shall be by express written instruments. No license shall be granted or implied in an NRC invention except as provided for in these regulations or in patent rights articles under Commission procurement regulations, pursuant to the Act, or pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement between the United States and any foreign government or intergovernmental organization.
(e) No grant of a license under this subpart shall be construed to confer upon any licensee any immunity from the antitrust laws or from liability for patent misuse, and the acquisition and use of rights pursuant to this subpart shall not be immunized from the operation of State or Federal law by reason of the source of the grant.
(f) No grant of a license under this subpart shall be construed to confer any authorization under chapters 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, or any other chapter or section of the Act (42 U.S.C., sec. 2011-2296) for which separate application for a license must be made in accordance with the Act or other Commission regulations.
§ 81.13
Publication of NRC inventions available for licensing.
(a) The Commission will have published periodically a list of the NRC inventions available for licensing under this subpart in the
Federal Register,
the U.S. Patent Office Official Gazette, and in one other publication which it is determined will best serve the public interest and, where advisable, in other publications.
(b) Interested persons may obtain copies of such lists by communicating with the Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Copies of U.S. patents may be obtained from the U.S. Patent Office. Copies of U.S. patent application specifications, or microfiche reproductions thereof, may be secured at reasonable cost from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) or from the U.S. Patent Office with Commission approval.
[38 FR 7318, Mar. 20, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8793, Mar. 3, 1975]
§ 81.20
Nonexclusive licenses.
(a) NRC inventions will normally be made available for the grant of nonexclusive licenses to responsible applicants who will practice the invention and make its benefits reasonably accessible to the public.
(1) The nonexclusive license will be revocable, at the option of the Commission, if the licensee does not comply with all the terms and conditions of the license agreement.
(2) The duration of the license shall be for a specified period and/or such additional period as may be provided for in the license agreement.
(3) The license shall require the licensee to bring the invention to the point of practical application within a period specified in the license agreement, or as the period may be extended by the Commission, and then to continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.
(4) The license shall be granted for all of the fields of use of the invention, or only such fields of use as may be specified in the license agreement, and throughout the United States of America, its territories and possessions, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia or in any lesser geographic portion thereof as may be specified in the license agreement.
(5) The licensee shall be required to submit periodic reports on his efforts to bring the invention to a point of practical application and the extent to which he continues to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public. Unless otherwise specified in the license, such periodic reports will be required annually prior to the anniversary date of the grant of the license. The reports shall contain information within the licensee's knowledge, or which the licensee may acquire under normal business practices, pertaining to the commercial use being made of the invention, and other information which the Commission may determine to be pertinent to the licensing activity of the Commission and specified in the license agreement.
(6) Normally a royalty shall not be charged U.S. citizens and U.S. corporations for nonexclusive licenses on NRC inventions.
(7) The license may extend to wholly-owned subsidiaries of the licensee but shall be nonassignable, or otherwise nontransferable, without approval of the Commission.
(8) The Commission may revoke the license (i) for failure of the licensee to bring the invention to the point of practical application or to continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public, (ii) if the licensee defaults in making any periodic report required by the license, or (iii) if the licensee commits any breach of any covenant or agreement therein contained, or (iv) if the licensee willfully makes, or has made, a false statement of a material fact or omitted a material fact in the license application submitted pursuant to § 81.40(a) or in any report required by the license agreement.
(9) The Commission may restrict the licensee to the particular fields of use and/or geographical areas in which the licensee has brought the invention to the point of practical application and continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.
(10) Before revoking or restricting any license granted pursuant to this subpart, the Commission shall mail to the licensee and any sublicensee of record, at the last address filed with the Commission, a written notice of the Commission's intention to revoke or restrict the license, and the licensee and any sublicensee shall be allowed thirty (30) days after the mailing of such notice, or within such period as may be granted by the Commission, to remedy any breach of any covenant or agreement as referred to in paragraph (a)(8)(iii) of this section, or to show cause why the license should not be revoked or restricted.
(11) Subject to the rights reserved to the Government in this section, the licensee shall be granted the nonexclusive rights to make, use, and/or sell the invention in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the license agreement.
(12) The license may be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Commission may deem in the public interest.
§ 81.30
Limited exclusive licenses.
(a) An NRC invention may be made available for the grant of a limited exclusive license provided that:
(1) The invention has been published as available for licensing pursuant to § 81.13 for a period of at least six (6) months.
(2) The Commission has determined that (i) the invention may be brought to the point of practical application in certain fields of use or in certain geographical locations by exclusive licensing, (ii) the desired practical application has not been achieved under any nonexclusive license granted on the invention, and (iii) the desired practical application is not likely to be achieved expeditiously in the public interest under a nonexclusive license or as a result of further Government-funded research or development.
(3) Notice of the selection of a prospective licensee to be granted a limited exclusive license of a specified duration and scope shall have been transmitted to the Attorney General of the United States and shall have been published for at least sixty (60) days in the
Federal Register
with a statement advising of the rights of license applicants or third parties to apply for nonexclusive licenses or bring information to the attention of the Commission under the next paragraph.
(4) After expiration of the period in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Commission has determined (i) that no applicant for a nonexclusive license has brought or will bring the invention to the point of practical application as specified in the prospective exclusive license within a reasonable period under a nonexclusive license, and (ii) that the granting of the license would be in the public interest and not be inconsistent with the Act after consideration of all the facts and any written evidence and argument which third parties may present to the Commission within sixty (60) days of the publication of the notices of the selection of the licensee under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(5) The Commission shall record and make available for public inspection, upon request, all decisions and the basis thereof under this section.
§ 81.31
Selection of an exclusive licensee.
An exclusive licensee will be selected by the Commission on bases consistent with the policy set forth in § 81.11 of this subpart in accordance with the procedures herein, based upon the information supplied to the Commission in a license application under § 81.40. Consideration will be given to: (a) The capabilities of the applicant to further the technical and market development of the invention to bring the same to the point of practical application, (b) the applicant's plan to undertake development of the invention, (c) the projected impact on competition, (d) the benefit to the Government and the public, as well as (e) assistance to small business and minority business enterprises and economically depressed, low income and labor surplus areas, and (f)
whether the applicant is a U.S. citizen or corporation.
§ 81.32
Terms of exclusive license grant.
(a) NRC inventions may be made available for the grant of limited exclusive licenses to responsible applicants who will bring the invention to the point of practical application and make its benefits reasonably accessible to the public.
(1) The license may be granted for all or less than all fields of use of the invention, and throughout the United States of America, its territories and possessions, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, or any lesser geographical portion thereof.
(2) The duration of the license will be negotiated and shall include (i) a period of exclusivity specified in the license, which shall be related to the period necessary to provide a reasonable incentive for the licensee to invest the necessary risk capital to bring the invention to the point of practical application and which shall not exceed 5 years or be extended unless the Commission determines on the basis of a written submission supported by a factual showing that a longer period is reasonably necessary to permit the licensee to enter the market and recoup his investment in bringing the invention to the point of practical application; and (ii) a terminal portion, sufficient to make the invention reasonably available for the granting of nonexclusive licenses under § 81.20, during which the licensee may have a nonexclusive license if the licensee continues to make the invention reasonably accessible to the public.
(3) The license shall require the licensee to bring the invention to the point of practical application within a period specified in the license agreement, or, subject to the approval of the Commission, within a longer period, and then to continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.
(4) The license shall require the licensee to expand a specified minimum sum of money and/or to take other specified action, within indicated periods as specified in the license, in an effort to bring the invention to the point of practical application. Reasonable royalties shall be charged by the Commission, as specified in the license agreement, unless the Commission determines that it would not be in the public interest to charge royalties.
(5) The license shall be subject to an irrevocable, royalty-free right of the Government of the United States to practice and have practiced the invention by or on behalf of the Government of the United States and on behalf of any foreign Government or intergovernmental organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the United States.
(6) The license shall reserve to the Commission the right to require the licensee to grant sublicenses to responsible applicants to practice the invention on terms that are reasonable under the circumstances, (i) to the extent that the invention is required for public use by governmental regulations, or (ii) as may be necessary to fulfill health or safety needs, or (iii) if the invention is useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy and the licensing of such invention is of importance to effectuate the policies and purposes of the Act, (iv) for other public purposes as stipulated in the license agreement. In the event that the licensee and the Commission cannot agree upon reasonable terms for such sublicenses, the terms, including a reasonable royalty, may be fixed pursuant to the procedure set forth in section 157(c) of the Act.
(7) Subject to the right reserved to the Government in paragraphs (a) (5) and (6) of this section, the licensee shall be granted the exclusive right to make, use, and/or sell the invention in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the license agreement.
(8) The license may extend to wholly owned subsidiaries of the licensee but shall be nonassignable and otherwise nontransferable without approval of the Commission, except assignment may be made, upon notice to the Commission, to successors of that part of the licensee's business to which the invention pertains.
(9) An exclusive licensee may grant sublicenses under his license only with
the approval of the Commission. Any sublicense or assignment granted by an exclusive licensee shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the exclusive license, including the rights retained by the Government thereunder, and a copy of each such sublicense or assignment shall be furnished to the Commission.
(10) The license shall require the licensee to submit periodic reports on his efforts to achieve practical application of the invention and the extent to which he continues to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public. Unless otherwise specified in the license, such reports will be required annually on the anniversary date of the grant of the license. The report shall contain information within the licensee's knowledge, or which the licensee may acquire under normal business practices, pertaining to the commercial use being made of the invention, and other information which the Commission may determine to be pertinent to the licensing activity of the Commission as is specified in the license agreement.
(11) The Commission may modify or revoke the license (i) for failure of the licensee to bring the invention to the point of practical application within the period specified in the license agreement or to continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public; (ii) if the licensee fails to expend the minimum sum of money or to take any other action specified in the license agreement within the periods specified in the license agreement in an effort to bring the invention to the point of practical application; (iii) if the licensee defaults in making any payments or periodic reports required by the license; or (iv) if the licensee commits any breach of any covenant or agreement therein contained; or (v) if the licensee willfully makes, or has made, a false statement of a material fact or willfully omitted a material fact in the license application submitted pursuant to § 81.40 or in any report required by the license agreement.
(12) Before modifying or revoking any license granted pursuant to this subpart for any cause, the Commission shall mail to the licensee and any sublicensee of record at the last address filed with the Commission a written notice of the Commission's intention to modify or revoke the license, and the licensee and any sublicensee shall be allowed thirty (30) days after the mailing of such notice, or within such period as may be granted by the Commission, to remedy any breach of any covenant or agreement referred to in paragraph (a)(11)(iv) of this section or to show cause why the license should not be modified or revoked.
(13) An exclusive licensee shall be granted the right to sue at his own expense any party who infringes the rights set forth in his license and covered by the licensed patent. The licensee may join the Government of the United States, upon consent of the Attorney General, as a party complainant in such suit, but without expense to the Government and the licensee shall pay costs and any final judgment or decree that may be rendered against the Government in such suit. The Government shall have an absolute right to intervene in any such suit at its own expense. The licensee shall be obligated to furnish promptly to the Government, upon request, copies of all pleadings and other papers filed in any such suit and of evidence adduced in proceedings relating to the licensed patent, including, but not limited to, negotiations or settlements and agreements settling claims by a licensee based on the licensed patent, and all other books, documents, papers, and records pertaining to such suit. If, as a result of any such litigation, the patent shall be declared invalid, the licensee shall have the right to surrender his license and be relieved from any further obligation thereunder.
(14) A licensee may surrender his license at any time prior to termination of the license upon notice thereof to the Commission, and upon approval of the Commission, but the licensee shall not be relieved of the obligations thereunder without specific approval of the Commission.
(15) The license may be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Commission may deem in the public interest.
§ 81.35
Notices to public of exclusive licenses.
The Commission will have published in the
Federal Register
notices of the granting, revocation, or modification in duration and/or scope, of limited exclusive licenses under these regulations. Such notices shall identify the invention and shall include, directly, or by reference to previous notice(s) in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 81.13 or § 81.30(a)(3) the following:
(a) Identification of the licensee.
(b) Duration and scope of the exclusive license.
(c) That such a license is being granted or revoked, or the nature of the modification of the license.
(d) The effective date of the grant, modification, or revocation.
§ 81.40
Contents of a license application.
(a)
Nonexclusive license application.
An application for a nonexclusive license under an NRC invention should be accompanied by a fee of ten dollars ($10) for processing the application and must include the following information:
(1) Identification of the invention for which the license is desired, including the patent application serial number or the patent number, title, and date, if known, and any other identification of the invention;
(2) Name and address of the person, company, or organization applying for a license and the citizenship or State of incorporation thereof;
(3) Name and address of a representative of applicant to whom correspondence should be sent and any notices served;
(4) Nature and type of applicant's business;
(5) Identification of the source of applicant's information concerning the availability of a license on the invention;
(6) Purpose for which the license is desired, and a brief description of applicant's plan to achieve that purpose;
(7) A statement of the field and the field(s) of use in which applicant intends to practice the invention; and
(8) A statement of the geographical area(s) in which the applicant will practice the invention.
(b)
Exclusive license application.
An application for a limited exclusive license should include, in addition to the information indicated above for a nonexclusive license application, the following information:
(1) Applicant's status, if any, in any one or more of the following categories:
(i) Small business firm;
(ii) Minority business enterprise;
(iii) Location in a surplus labor area;
(iv) Location in a low income area; and
(v) Location in an economically depressed area.
(2) A statement describing the time, expenditure, and other acts which the applicant considers necessary to bring the invention to a point of practical application, and the applicant's offer to invest that time and sum, and to perform such acts, if the license is granted.
(3) A statement of applicant's capability to undertake the development and/or marketing required to bring the invention to the point of practical application.
(4) A statement that contains applicant's best knowledge of the extent to which the invention is being practiced by private industry and the Government; and
(5) Any other facts which the applicant believes to show it to be in the public interest for the Commission to grant an exclusive license rather than a nonexclusive license and that such exclusive license should be granted to the applicant.
§ 81.50
Additional licenses.
Subject to any outstanding licenses, nothing in this subpart shall preclude the Commission from granting additional nonexclusive and limited exclusive licenses for inventions covered by this subpart when the Commission determines that to do so would provide for an equitable exchange of patent rights. The following exemplify circumstances wherein such licenses may be granted:
(a) In consideration of the settlement of interferences;
(b) In consideration of a release of any claims;
(c) In exchange for or as part of the consideration for a license under adversely held patent(s); or
(d) In consideration for the settlement or resolution of any proceeding under the Act or other statute.
§ 81.51
Appeals.
An applicant for a license, a licensee, or a third party who has participated under § 81.30(a)(3) shall have the right to appeal in accordance with the appeal procedures of this subpart any decision of the Commission concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification, or revocation of a license under this subpart, by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission within thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of a notice by the Commission of the decision or, if no such notice to the person desiring to appeal, then thirty (30) days from publication in the
Federal Register
of the facts which show such a decision. The notice of appeal shall specify the portion of the decision from which the appeal is taken, and the reasons why the decision is erroneous. A statement of fact and argument in the form of a brief in support of the appeal may be submitted with the notice of appeal or, if the appellant prefers, may be filed with the Commission within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal. If a statement of fact and argument in the form of a brief in support of the appeal is not submitted with the notice, the appellant shall state in the notice whether such a statement of fact and argument in the form of a brief in support of the appeal will be filed.
§ 81.52
Appeals Board.
(a)
NRC Invention Licensing Appeal Board.
Upon notice of an appeal in accordance with § 81.51, the Executive Director for Operations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will designate within thirty (30) days an Invention Licensing Appeal Board (hereinafter, Board) to decide such an appeal.
(b)
Composition of the Board.
The Invention Licensing Appeal Board shall consist of three members having equal voting power, one of whom will be designated as Chairman.
(c)
Notice of designation of the Board.
The Executive Director for Operations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will advise the appellant of the designation of the Board, its composition, and Chairman.
[40 FR 8793, Mar. 3, 1975]
§ 81.53
Review by the Board.
(a) The Board shall determine the propriety of any decision concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification, or revocation of a license according to the policy and criteria of these regulations, including § 81.11, on the record and evidence submitted by an appellant and the Commission to the Board.
(b) A hearing may be requested by the Commission or an appellant within fifteen (15) days after the notice set forth under § 81.52(c). An appellant and the Commission shall be given a minimum of fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of a hearing. The Commission and the appellant shall have an opportunity to make oral arguments before the Board.
(c) The Board shall make findings of fact and reach a conclusion with respect to the propriety of the decision of the Commission, which conclusion shall constitute the final action of the Commission.
Pt. 95

# PART 95—FACILITY SECURITY CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION AND RESTRICTED DATA

# General Provisions
Sec.
95.1
Purpose.
95.3
Scope.
95.5
Definitions.
95.7
Interpretations.
95.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
95.9
Communications.
95.11
Specific exemptions.
95.13
Maintenance of records.

# Physical Security
95.15
Approval for processing licensees and others for facility clearance.
95.17
Processing facility clearance.
95.18
Key personnel.
95.19
Changes to security practices and procedures.
95.20
Grant, denial or termination of facility clearance.
95.21
Withdrawal of requests for facility security clearance.
95.23
Termination of facility clearance.
95.25
Protection of National Security Information and Restricted Data in storage.
95.27
Protection while in use.
95.29
Establishment of Restricted or Closed areas.
95.31
Protective personnel.
95.33
Security education.
95.34
Control of visitors.

# Control of Information
95.35
Access to matter classified as National Security Information and Restricted Data.
95.36
Access by representatives of the International Atomic Energy Agency or by participants in other international agreements.
95.37
Classification and preparation of documents.
95.39
External transmission of documents and material.
95.41
External receipt and dispatch records.
95.43
Authority to reproduce.
95.45
Changes in classification.
95.47
Destruction of matter containing classified information.
95.49
Security of automatic data processing (ADP) systems.
95.51
Retrieval of classified matter following suspension or revocation of access authorization.
95.53
Termination of facility clearance.
95.55
Continued applicability of the regulations in this part.
95.57
Reports.
95.59
Inspections.

# Violations
95.61
Violations.
95.63
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 145, 161, 223, 234 (42 U.S.C. 2165, 2201, 2273, 2282); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note; E.O. 10865, as amended, 25 FR 1583, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 398; E.O. 12829, 58 FR 3479, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 570; E.O. 12968, 60 FR 40245, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 391; E.O. 13526, 75 FR 707, 3 CFR, 2009 Comp., p. 298.

# Source:
45 FR 14483, Mar. 5, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 95.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part establish procedures for obtaining facility security clearance and for safeguarding Secret and Confidential National Security Information and Restricted Data received or developed in conjunction with activities licensed, certified or regulated by the Commission. This part does not apply to Top Secret information because Top Secret information may not be forwarded to licensees, certificate holders, or others within the scope of an NRC license or certificate.
[62 FR 17690, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003]
§ 95.3
Scope.
The regulations in this part apply to licensees, certificate holders and others who may require access to classified National Security Information and/or Restricted Data and/or Formerly Restricted Data (FRD) that is used, processed, stored, reproduced, transmitted, transported, or handled in connection with a license or certificate or an application for a license or certificate, or other activities as the Commission may determine.
[70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005]
§ 95.5
Definitions.
Access authorization
means an administrative determination that an individual (including a consultant) who is employed by or an applicant for employment with the NRC, NRC contractors, agents, licensees and certificate holders, or other persons designated by the Executive Director for Operations, is eligible for a security clearance for access to classified information.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), as amended.
Classified mail address
means a mail address established for each facility approved by the NRC, to which all classified information for the facility is to be sent.
Classified matter
means documents or material containing classified information.
Classified National Security Information
means information that has been determined under E.O. 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
Classified shipping address
means an address established for a facility, approved by the NRC to which classified
material that cannot be transmitted as normal mail is to be sent.
Closed area
means an area that meets the requirements of the CSA, for the purpose of safeguarding classified material that, because of its size, nature, or operational necessity, cannot be adequately protected by the normal safeguards or stored during nonworking hours in approved containers.
Cognizant Security Agency (CSA)
means agencies of the Executive Branch that have been authorized by E.O. 12829 to establish an industrial security program for the purpose of safeguarding classified information under the jurisdiction of those agencies when disclosed or released or released to U.S. industry. These agencies are the Department of Defense, the department of Energy, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. A facility has a CSA which exercises primary authority for the protection of classified information at the facility. The CSA for the facility provides security representation for other government agencies with security interests at the facility. The Secretary of Defense has been as Executive Agent for the National Industrial Security Program.
Combination lock
means a three position, manipulation resistant, dial type lock bearing an Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. certification that it is a Group 1 or Group IR unit.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Facility (Security) Clearance (FCL)
means an administrative determination that, from a security viewpoint, a facility is eligible for access to classified information of a certain category (and all lower categories).
Foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI)
means a foreign interest that has the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, and whether or not exercisable through the ownership of a U.S. company's securities, by contractual arrangements or other means, to direct or decide matters affecting the management or operations of that company in a manner which may result in unauthorized access to classified information or may affect adversely the performance of classified contracts.
Infraction
means any knowing, willful, or negligent action contrary to the requirements of E.O. 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor order, or its implementing directives that does not comprise a “violation,” as defined in this section.
Intrusion alarm
means a tamper-indicating electrical, electro-mechanical, electro-optical, electronic or similar device which will detect unauthorized intrusion by an individual into a building, protected area, security area, vital area, or material access area, and alert guards or watchmen by means of actuated visible and audible signals.
License
means a license issued under 10 CFR parts 50, 52, 54, 60, 63, 70, or 72.
Material
means chemical substance without regard to form; fabricated or processed item; or assembly, machinery or equipment.
Matter
means documents or material.
National security
means the national defense or foreign relations of the United States.
Need-to-know
means a determination made by an authorized holder of classified information that a prospective recipient requires access to specific classified information in order to perform or assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function under the cognizance of the Commission.
NRC “L” access authorization
means an access authorization granted by the Commission that is normally based on a Tier 3 (T3) investigation or a Tier 3 reinvestigation (T3R) conducted by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
NRC “Q” access authorization
means an access authorization granted by the Commission normally based on a Tier 5 (T5) investigation conducted by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or other U.S. Government agency that conducts personnel security investigations.
Person
means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy (DOE), except that the DOE shall be considered a person to
the extent that its facilities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and sections 104, 105 and 202 of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, any State or any political subdivision of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing.
Protective personnel
means guards or watchmen as defined in 10 CFR part 73 or other persons designated responsibility for the protection of classified matter.
Restricted area
means a controlled access area established to safeguard classified material, that, because of its size or nature, cannot be adequately protected during working hours by the usual safeguards, but that is capable of being stored during non-working hours in an approved repository or secured by other methods approved by the CSA.
Restricted data
means all data concerning design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons, the production of special nuclear material, or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Act.
Security area
means a physically defined space containing classified matter and subject to physical protection and personnel access controls.
Security container
includes any of the following repositories:
(1) A security filing cabinet—one that bears a Test Certification Label on the side of the locking drawer, inside wall adjacent to the locking drawer, or interior door plate, or is marked, “General Services Administration Approved Security Container” on the exterior of the top drawer or door.
(2) A safe—burglar-resistive cabinet or chest which bears a label of the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., certifying the unit to be a TL-15, TL-30, or TRTL-30, and has a body fabricated of not less than 1 inch of steel and a door fabricated of not less than 1
1/2
inches of steel exclusive of the combination lock and bolt work; or bears a Test Certification Label on the inside of the door, or is marked “General Services Administration Approved Security Container” and has a body of steel at least
1/2
inch thick, and a combination locked steel door at least 1 inch thick, exclusive of bolt work and locking devices; and an automatic unit locking mechanism.
(3) A vault—a windowless enclosure constructed with walls, floor, roof, and door(s) that will delay penetration sufficient to enable the arrival of emergency response forces capable of preventing theft, diversion, damage, or compromise of classified information or matter, when delay time is assessed in conjunction with detection and communication subsystems of the physical protection system.
(4) A vault-type room—a room that has a combination lock door and is protected by an intrusion alarm system that alarms upon the unauthorized penetration of a person anywhere into the room.
(5) Other repositories that would provide comparable physical protection in the judgment of the Division of Facilities and Security.
Security facility
—any facility which has been approved by NRC for using, processing, storing, reproducing, transmitting or handling classified matter.
Security reviews
means aperiodic security reviews of cleared facilities conducted to ensure that safeguards employed by licensees and others are adequate for the protection of classified information.
Supplemental protection
means additional security procedures such as intrusion detection systems, security guards, and access control systems.
Violation
means any knowing, willful, or negligent action that could reasonably be expected to result in an unauthorized disclosure of classified information or any knowing, willful, or negligent action to classify or continue the classification of information contrary to the requirements of E.O. 12958,
as amended, or its implementing directives.
[45 FR 14483, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 58284, Dec. 1, 1981; 47 FR 38683, Sept. 2, 1982; 48 FR 24320, June 1, 1983; 50 FR 36984, Sept. 11, 1985; 55 FR 11575, Mar. 29, 1990; 55 FR 14379, Apr. 17, 1990; 59 FR 48974, Sept. 23, 1994; 62 FR 17691, Apr. 11, 1997; 64 FR 15649, Apr. 1, 1999; 70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005; 72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 45242, July 28, 2022]
§ 95.7
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 95.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0047.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 95.11, 95.15, 95.17, 95.18, 95.21, 95.25, 95.33, 95.34, 95.36, 95.37, 95.39, 95.41, 95.43, 95.45, 95.47, 95.53, and 95.57.
[62 FR 52190, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15650, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.9
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part should be submitted as follows:
(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;
(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or
(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(d) Classified communications shall be transmitted in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter or delivered by hand in accordance with § 95.39 of this chapter to the NRC Headquarters' street address listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
[68 FR 58823, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018]
§ 95.11
Specific exemptions.
The NRC may, upon application by any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant exemptions from the requirements of the regulations of this part, that are—
(a) Authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and are consistent with the common defense and security; or
(b) Coincidental with one or more of the following:
(1) An application of the regulation in the particular circumstances conflicts with other rules or requirements of the NRC;
(2) An application of the regulation in the particular circumstances would not serve the underlying purpose of the
rule or is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule;
(3) When compliance would result in undue hardship or other costs that are significantly in excess of those contemplated when the regulation was adopted, or that are significantly in excess of those incurred by others similarly situated;
(4) When the exemption would result in benefit to the common defense and security that compensates for any decrease in security that may result from the grant of the exemption;
(5) When the exemption would provide only temporary relief from the applicable regulation and the licensee or applicant has made good faith efforts to comply with the regulation;
(6) When there is any other material circumstance not considered when the regulation was adopted for which it would be in the public interest to grant an exemption. If such a condition is relied on exclusively for satisfying paragraph (b) of this section, the exemption may not be granted until the Executive Director for Operations has consulted with the Commission.
[64 FR 15650, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.13
Maintenance of records.
(a) Each licensee, certificate holder or other person granted facility clearance under this part shall maintain records as prescribed within the part. These records are subject to review and inspection by CSA representatives during security reviews.
(b) Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, or specifications must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee, certificate holder, or other person shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[53 FR 19263, May 27, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 17691, Apr. 11, 1997; 72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007]

# Physical Security
§ 95.15
Approval for processing licensees and others for facility clearance.
(a) A licensee, certificate holder, or other person who has a need to use, process, store, reproduce, transmit, transport, or handle NRC classified information at any location in connection with Commission-related activities shall promptly request an NRC facility clearance. This specifically includes situations where a licensee, certificate holder, or other person needs a contractor or consultant to have access to NRC classified information. Also included are others who require access to classified information in connection with NRC regulated activities but do not require use, storage, or possession of classified information outside of NRC facilities. However, it is not necessary for a licensee, certificate holder, or other person to request an NRC facility clearance for access to another agency's classified information at that agency's facilities or to store that agency's classified information at their facility, provided no NRC classified information is involved and they meet the security requirements of the other agency. If NRC classified information is involved, the requirements of § 95.17 apply.
(b) The request must include the name of the facility, the location of the facility and an identification of any facility clearance issued by another government agency. If there is no existing facility clearance, the request must include a security Standard Practice Procedures Plan that outlines the facility's proposed security procedures and controls for the protection of classified information, a floor plan of the area in which the matter is to be used, processed, stored, reproduced, transmitted, transported or handled; and Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence information.
(c) NRC will promptly inform applicants of the acceptability of the request for further processing and will notify the licensee or other person of their decision in writing.
[45 FR 14483, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 24321, June 1, 1983; 50 FR 36984, Sept. 11, 1985; 59 FR 48974, Sept. 23, 1994; 62 FR 17691, Apr. 11, 1997; 64 FR 15650, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.17
Processing facility clearance.
(a) Following the receipt of an acceptable request for facility clearance, the NRC will either accept an existing facility clearance granted by a current CSA and authorize possession of license or certificate related classified information, or process the facility for a facility clearance. Processing will include—
(1) A determination based on review and approval of a Standard Practice Procedures Plan that granting of the Facility Clearance would not be inconsistent with the national interest, including a finding that the facility is not under foreign ownership, control, or influence to such a degree that a determination could not be made. An NRC finding of foreign ownership, control, or influence is based on factors concerning the foreign intelligence threat, risk of unauthorized technology transfer, type and sensitivity of the information that requires protection, the extent of foreign influence, record of compliance with pertinent laws, and the nature of international security and information exchange agreements. The licensee, certificate holder, or other person must advise the NRC within 30 days of any significant events or changes that may affect its status concerning foreign ownership, control, or influence (e.g., changes in ownership; changes that affect the company's answers to original FOCI questions; indebtedness; and changes in the required form that identifies owners, officers, directors, and executive personnel).
(2) An acceptable security review conducted by the NRC;
(3) Submitting key management personnel for personnel clearances (PCLs); and
(4) Appointing a U.S. citizen employee as the facility security officer.
(b) An interim Facility Clearance may be granted by the CSA on a temporary basis pending completion of the full investigative requirements.
[62 FR 17692, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15650, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.18
Key personnel.
The senior management official and the Facility Security Officer must always be cleared to a level commensurate with the Facility Clearance. Other key management officials, as determined by the CSA, must be granted an access authorization or be excluded from classified access. When formal exclusion action is required, the organization's board of directors or similar executive body shall affirm the following, as appropriate.
(a) Officers, directors, partners, regents, or trustees (designated by name) that are excluded may not require, may not have, and can be effectively excluded from access to all classified information disclosed to the organization. These individuals also may not occupy positions that would enable them to adversely affect the organization's policies or practices in the performance of activities involving classified information. This action will be made a matter of record by the organization's executive body. A copy of the resolution must be furnished to the CSA.
(b) Officers, directors, partners, regents, or trustees (designated by name) that are excluded may not require, may not have, and can be effectively denied access to higher-level classified information (specify which higher level(s)). These individuals may not occupy positions that would enable them to adversely affect the organization's policies or practices in the protection of classified information. This action will be made a matter of record by the organization's executive body. A copy of the resolution must be furnished to the CSA.
[62 FR 17692, Apr. 11, 1997]
§ 95.19
Changes to security practices and procedures.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, each licensee, certificate holder, or other person shall
obtain prior CSA approval for any proposed change to the name, location, security procedures and controls, or floor plan of the approved facility. A written description of the proposed change must be furnished to the CSA and the NRC Regional Administrator of the cognizant Regional Office listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter, and, if the NRC is not the CSA, also to the Director, Division of Security Operations, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response; the communications to NRC personnel should be by an appropriate method listed in § 95.9. These substantive changes to the Standard Practice Procedures Plan that affect the security of the facility must be submitted to the NRC Division of Security Operations, or CSA, at least 30 days prior to the change so that they may be evaluated. The CSA shall promptly respond in writing to all such proposals. Some examples of substantive changes requiring prior CSA approval include—
(1) A change in the approved facility's classified mail address; or
(2) A temporary or permanent change in the location of the approved facility (e.g., moving or relocating NRC's classified interest from one room or building to another). Approved changes will be reflected in a revised Standard Practice Procedures Plan submission within 30 days of approval. Page changes rather than a complete rewrite of the plan may be submitted.
(b) A licensee, certificate holder, or other person may effect a minor, non-substantive change to an approved Standard Practice Procedures Plan for the safeguarding of classified information without receiving prior CSA approval. These minor changes that do not affect the security of the facility may be submitted to the addressees noted in paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days of the change. Page changes rather than a complete rewrite of the plan may be submitted. Some examples of minor, non-substantive changes to the Standard Practice Procedures Plan include—
(1) The designation/appointment of a new facility security officer; or
(2) A revision to a protective personnel patrol routine, provided the new routine continues to meet the minimum requirements of this part.
(c) A licensee, certificate holder, or other person must update its NRC facility clearance every five years either by submitting a complete Standard Practice Procedures Plan or a certification that the existing plan is fully current to the Division of Security Operations.
[64 FR 15650, Apr. 1, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 68 FR 58823, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007; 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.20
Grant, denial or termination of facility clearance.
The Division of Security Operations shall provide notification in writing (or orally with written confirmation) to the licensee, certificate holder, or other person of the Commission's grant, acceptance of another agency's facility clearance, denial, or termination of facility clearance. This information must also be furnished to representatives of the NRC, NRC contractors, licensees, certificate holders, or other person, or other Federal agencies having a need to transmit classified information to the licensees or other person.
[72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.21
Withdrawal of requests for facility security clearance.
When a request for facility clearance is to be withdrawn or canceled, the requester shall notify the NRC Division of Security Operations in the most expeditious manner so that processing for this approval may be terminated. The notification must identify the full name of the individual requesting discontinuance, his or her position with the facility, and the full identification of the facility. The requestor shall confirm the telephone notification promptly in writing.
[64 FR 15651, Apr. 1, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.23
Termination of facility clearance.
(a) Facility clearance will be terminated when—
(1) There is no longer a need to use, process, store, reproduce, transmit, transport or handle classified matter at the facility; or
(2) The Commission makes a determination that continued facility clearance is not in the interest of national security.
(b) When facility clearance is terminated, the licensee, certificate holder, or other person will be notified in writing of the determination and the procedures outlined in § 95.53 apply.
[62 FR 17692, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.25
Protection of National Security Information and Restricted Data in storage.
(a) Secret matter, while unattended or not in actual use, must be stored in—
(1) A safe, steel file cabinet, or safe-type steel file container that has an automatic unit locking mechanism. All such receptacles will be accorded supplemental protection during non-working hours; or
(2) Any steel file cabinet that has four sides and a top and bottom (all permanently attached by welding, rivets, or peened bolts so the contents cannot be removed without leaving visible evidence of entry) and is secured by a rigid metal lock bar and an approved key operated or combination padlock. The keepers of the rigid metal lock bar must be secured to the cabinet by welding, rivets, or bolts, so they cannot be removed and replaced without leaving evidence of the entry. The drawers of the container must be held securely so their contents cannot be removed without forcing open the drawer. This type of cabinet will be accorded supplemental protection during non-working hours.
(b) Confidential matter while unattended or not in use must be stored in the same manner as SECRET matter except that no supplemental protection is required.
(c)
Classified lock combinations.
(1) A minimum number of authorized persons may know the combinations to authorized storage containers. Security containers, vaults, cabinets, and other authorized storage containers must be kept locked when not under the direct supervision of an authorized person entrusted with the contents.
(2) Combinations must be changed by a person authorized access to the contents of the container, by the Facility Security Officer, or his or her designee.
(d)
Records of combinations.
If a record is made of a combination, the record must be marked with the highest classification of material authorized for storage in the container. Superseded combinations must be destroyed.
(e)
Selections of combinations.
Each combination must be randomly selected and require the use of at least three different numbers. In selecting combinations, multiples, simple arithmetical ascending or descending series, telephone numbers, social security numbers, car license numbers, and calendar dates such as birthdates and anniversaries, shall be avoided.
(f) Combinations will be changed only by persons authorized access to Secret or Confidential National Security Information and/or Restricted Data depending upon the matter authorized to be stored in the security container.
(g)
Posted information.
Containers may not bear external markings indicating the level of classified matter authorized for storage. A record of the names of persons having knowledge of the combination must be posted inside the container.
(h)
End of day security checks.
(1) Facilities that store classified matter shall establish a system of security checks at the close of each working day to ensure that all classified matter and security repositories have been appropriately secured.
(2) Facilities operating with multiple work shifts shall perform the security checks at the end of the last working shift in which classified matter had been removed from storage for use. The checks are not required during continuous 24-hour operations.
(i)
Unattended security container found opened.
If an unattended security container housing classified matter is found unlocked, the custodian or an alternate must be notified immediately. Also, the container must be secured by protective personnel. An effort must be made to determine if the contents were
compromised not later than the next day.
(j)
Supervision of keys and padlocks.
Use of key-operated padlocks are subject to the following requirements:
(1) A key and lock custodian shall be appointed to ensure proper custody and handling of keys and locks used for protection of classified matter;
(2) A key and lock control register must be maintained to identify keys for each lock and their current location and custody;
(3) Keys and locks must be audited each month;
(4) Keys must be inventoried with each change of custody;
(5) Keys must not be removed from the premises;
(6) Keys and spare locks must be protected equivalent to the level of classified matter involved;
(7) Locks must be changed or rotated at least every 12 months, and must be replaced after loss or compromise of their operable keys; and
(8) Master keys may not be made.
[45 FR 14483, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 9196, Mar. 4, 1982; 50 FR 36985, Sept. 11, 1985; 53 FR 19263, May 27, 1988; 59 FR 48975, Sept. 23, 1994; 62 FR 17693, Apr. 11, 1997; 64 FR 15651, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.27
Protection while in use.
While in use, classified matter must be under the direct control of an authorized individual to preclude physical, audio, and visual access by persons who do not have the prescribed access authorization or other written CSA disclosure authorization (see § 95.36 for additional information concerning disclosure authorizations).
[64 FR 15651, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.29
Establishment of Restricted or Closed areas.
(a) If, because of its nature, sensitivity or importance, classified matter cannot otherwise be effectively controlled in accordance with the provisions of §§ 95.25 and 95.27, a Restricted or Closed area must be established to protect this matter.
(b) The following measures apply to Restricted Areas:
(1) Restricted areas must be separated from adjacent areas by a physical barrier designed to prevent unauthorized access (physical, audio, and visual) into these areas.
(2) Controls must be established to prevent unauthorized access to and removal of classified matter.
(3) Access to classified matter must be limited to persons who possess appropriate access authorization or other written CSA disclosure authorization and who require access in the performance of their official duties or regulatory obligations.
(4) Persons without appropriate access authorization for the area visited must be escorted by an appropriate CSA access authorized person at all times while within Restricted or Closed Areas.
(5) Each individual authorized to enter a Restricted or Closed Area must be issued a distinctive form of identification (e.g., badge) when the number of employees assigned to the area exceeds thirty per shift.
(6) During nonworking hours, admittance must be controlled by protective personnel. Protective personnel shall conduct patrols during nonworking hours at least every 8 hours and more frequently if necessary to maintain a commensurate level of protection. Entrances must be continuously monitored by protective personnel or by an approved alarm system.
(c) Due to the size and nature of the classified material, or operational necessity, it may be necessary to construct Closed Areas for storage because GSA-approved containers or vaults are unsuitable or impractical. Closed Areas must be approved by the CSA. The following measures apply to Closed Areas:
(1) Access to Closed Areas must be controlled to preclude unauthorized access. This may be accomplished through the use of a cleared employee or by a CSA approved access control device or system.
(2) Access must be limited to authorized persons who have an appropriate security clearance and a need-to-know for the classified matter within the area. Persons without the appropriate level of clearance and/or need-to-know must be escorted at all times by an authorized person where inadvertent or unauthorized exposure to classified information cannot otherwise be effectively prevented.
(3) The Closed Area must be accorded supplemental protection during non-working hours. During these hours, admittance to the area must be controlled by locked entrances and exits secured by either an approved built-in combination lock or an approved combination or key-operated padlock. However, doors secured from the inside with a panic bolt (for example, actuated by a panic bar), a dead bolt, a rigid wood or metal bar, or other means approved by the CSA, do not require additional locking devices.
(4) Open shelf or bin storage of classified matter in Closed Areas requires CSA approval. Only areas protected by an approved intrusion detection system will qualify for approval.
[62 FR 17693, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15652, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.31
Protective personnel.
Whenever protective personnel are used to protect classified information they shall:
(a) Possess an “L” access authorization (or CSA equivalent) if the licensee, certificate holder, or other person possesses information classified Confidential National Security Information, Confidential Restricted Data or Secret National Security Information.
(b) Possess a “Q” access authorization (or CSA equivalent) if the licensee, certificate holder, or other person possesses Secret Restricted Data related to nuclear weapons design, manufacturing and vulnerability information; and certain particularly sensitive Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program information (e.g., fuel manufacturing technology) and the protective personnel require access as part of their regular duties.
[72 FR 49562, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.33
Security education.
All cleared employees must be provided with security training and briefings commensurate with their involvement with classified information. The facility official(s) responsible for the program shall determine the means and methods for providing security education and training. A licensee or other entity subject to part 95 may obtain defensive security, threat awareness, and other education and training information and material from their Cognizant Security Agency (CSA) or other appropriate sources.
(a)
Facility Security Officer training.
Licensees or other entities subject to part 95 are responsible for ensuring that the Facility Security Officer, and other personnel performing security duties, complete security training deemed appropriate by the CSA. Training requirements must be based on the facility's involvement with classified information and may include a Facility Security Officer Orientation Course and, for Facility Security Officers at facilities with safeguarding capability, a Facility Security Officer Program Management Course. Training, if required, should be completed within 1 year of appointment to the position of Facility Security Officer.
(b)
Government-provided briefings.
The CSA is responsible for providing initial security briefings to the Facility Security Officer, and for ensuring that other briefings required for special categories of information are provided.
(c)
Temporary help suppliers.
A temporary help supplier, or other contractor who employs cleared individuals solely for dispatch elsewhere, is responsible for ensuring that required briefings are provided to their cleared personnel. The temporary help supplier or the using licensee's, certificate holder's, or other person's facility may conduct these briefings.
(d)
Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement (SF-312).
The SF-312 is an agreement between the United States and an individual who is cleared for access to classified information. An employee issued an initial access authorization must, in accordance with the requirements of § 25.23 of this chapter, execute an SF-312 before being granted access to classified information. The Facility Security Officer shall forward the executed SF-312 to the CSA for retention. If the employee refuses to execute the SF-312, the licensee or other facility shall deny the employee access to classified information and submit a report to the CSA. The SF-312 must be signed and dated by the employee and witnessed. The employee's and witness' signatures must bear the same date.
(e)
Access to classified information.
Employees may have access to classified information only if:
(1) A favorable determination of eligibility for access has been made with respect to such employee by the CSA;
(2) The employee has signed an approved non-disclosure agreement; and
(3) The employee has a need-to-know the information.
(f)
Initial security briefings.
Initial training shall be provided to every employee who has met the standards for access to classified information in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section before the employee is granted access to classified information. The initial training shall include the following topics:
(1) A Threat Awareness Briefing;
(2) A Defensive Security Briefing;
(3) An overview of the security classification system;
(4) Employee reporting obligations and requirements; and
(5) Security procedures and duties applicable to the employee's job.
(g)
Refresher briefings.
The licensee or other entities subject to part 95 shall conduct refresher briefings for all cleared employees at least annually. As a minimum, the refresher briefing must reinforce the information provided during the initial briefing and inform employees of appropriate changes in security regulations. This requirement may be satisfied by use of audio/video materials and/or by issuing written materials to cleared employees.
(h) Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall receive training specific to the proper application of the derivative classification principles of Executive Order 13526,
Classified National Security Information
(75 FR 707; January 5, 2010), before derivatively classifying information and at least once every 2 years thereafter.
(i)
Debriefings.
Licensee and other facilities shall debrief cleared employees at the time of termination of employment (discharge, resignation, or retirement); when an employee's access authorization is terminated, suspended, or revoked; and upon termination of the Facility Clearance.
(j) Records reflecting an individual's initial and refresher security orientations and security termination must be maintained for 3 years after termination of the individual's access authorization.
[78 FR 48041, Aug. 7, 2013]
§ 95.34
Control of visitors.
(a)
Uncleared visitors.
Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to this part shall take measures to preclude access to classified information by uncleared visitors.
(b)
Foreign visitors.
Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to this part shall take measures as may be necessary to preclude access to classified information by foreign visitors. The licensee, certificate holder, or other person shall retain records of visits for 5 years beyond the date of the visit.
[72 FR 49563, Aug. 28, 2007]

# Control of Information
§ 95.35
Access to matter classified as National Security Information and Restricted Data.
(a) Except as the Commission may authorize, no licensee, certificate holder or other person subject to the regulations in this part may receive or may permit any other licensee, certificate holder, or other person to have access to matter revealing Secret or Confidential National Security Information or Restricted Data unless the individual has:
(1)(i) A “Q” access authorization which permits access to matter classified as Secret and Confidential Restricted Data or Secret and Confidential National Security Information which includes intelligence information, CRYPTO (
i.e.
, cryptographic information) or other classified communications security (COMSEC) information, or
(ii) An “L” access authorization which permits access to matter classified as Confidential Restricted Data and Secret and Confidential National Security Information other than that noted in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section except that access to certain Confidential COMSEC information is permitted as authorized by a National Communications Security Committee waiver dated February 14, 1984.
(2) An established “need-to-know” for the matter (See Definitions, § 95.5).
(3) NRC-approved storage facilities if classified documents or material are to be transmitted to the licensee, certificate holder, or other person.
(b) Matter classified as National Security Information or Restricted Data shall not be released by a licensee or other person subject to part 95 to any personnel other than properly access authorized Commission licensee employees, or other individuals authorized access by the Commission.
(c) Access to matter which is National Security Information at NRC-licensed facilities or NRC-certified facilities by authorized representatives of IAEA is permitted in accordance with § 95.36.
[59 FR 48975, Sept. 23, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 49563, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.36
Access by representatives of the International Atomic Energy Agency or by participants in other international agreements.
(a) Based upon written disclosure authorization from the NRC Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards that an individual is an authorized representative of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) or other international organization and that the individual is authorized to make visits under an established agreement with the United States Government, an applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or other person subject to this part shall permit the individual (upon presentation of the credentials specified in § 75.8(c) of this chapter and any other credentials identified in the disclosure authorization) to have access to matter classified as National Security Information that is relevant to the conduct of a visit or inspection. A disclosure authorization under this section does not authorize a licensee, certificate holder, or other person subject to this part to provide access to Restricted Data.
(b) For purposes of this section, classified National Security Information is relevant to the conduct of a visit or inspection if—
(1) In the case of a visit, this information is needed to verify information according to § 75.8 of this chapter; or
(2) In the case of an inspection, an inspector is entitled to have access to the information under § 75.8 of this chapter.
(c) In accordance with the specific disclosure authorization provided by the Division of Security Operations, licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to this part are authorized to release (
i.e.
, transfer possession of) copies of documents that contain classified National Security Information directly to IAEA inspectors and other representatives officially designated to request and receive classified National Security Information documents. These documents must be marked specifically for release to IAEA or other international organizations in accordance with instructions contained in the NRC's disclosure authorization letter. Licensees, certificate holders, and other persons subject to this part may also forward these documents through the NRC to the international organization's headquarters in accordance with the NRC disclosure authorization. Licensees, certificate holders, and other persons may not reproduce documents containing classified National Security Information except as provided in § 95.43.
(d) Records regarding these visits and inspections must be maintained for 5 years beyond the date of the visit or inspection. These records must specifically identify each document released to an authorized representative and indicate the date of the release. These records must also identify (in such detail as the Division of Security Operations, by letter, may require) the categories of documents that the authorized representative has had access and the date of this access. A licensee, certificate holder, or other person subject to this part shall also retain Division of Security Operations disclosure authorizations for 5 years beyond the date of any visit or inspection when access to classified information was permitted.
(e) Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to this part shall take such measures as may be necessary to preclude access to classified matter by participants of other international agreements unless specifically
provided for under the terms of a specific agreement.
[62 FR 17694, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15652, Apr. 1, 1999; 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 72 FR 49563, Aug. 28, 2007; 73 FR 78614, Dec. 23, 2008; 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.37
Classification and preparation of documents.
(a)
Classification.
Classified information generated or possessed by a licensee, certificate holder, or other person must be appropriately marked. Classified material which is not conducive to markings (e.g., equipment) may be exempt from this requirement. These exemptions are subject to the approval of the CSA on a case-by-case basis. If a person or facility generates or possesses information that is believed to be classified based on guidance provided by the NRC or by derivation from classified documents, but which no authorized classifier has determined to be classified, the information must be protected and marked with the appropriate classification markings pending review and signature of an NRC authorized classifier. This information shall be protected as classified information pending final determination.
(b)
Classification consistent with content.
Each document containing classified information shall be classified Secret or Confidential according to its content. NRC licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to the requirements of 10 CFR part 95 may not make original classification decisions.
(c)
Markings required on face of documents.
(1) For derivative classification of classified National Security Information:
(i) Derivative classifications of classified National Security Information must contain the identity of the source document or the classification guide, including the agency and office of origin, on the “Derived From” line and its classification date. If more than one source is cited, the “Derived From” line should indicate “Multiple Sources.” The derivative classifier shall maintain the identification of each source with the file or record copy of the derivatively classified document.
(ii) Declassification instructions. When marking derivatively classified documents, the “DECLASSIFY ON” line must carry forward the declassification instructions as reflected in the original document. If multiple sources are used, the instructions will carry forward the longest duration.
(iii) An example of the marking stamp is as follows:
Derived from
(Source/Date)
Reason:
Declassify On:
(Date/Event/Exemption)
Classifier:
(Name/Title/Number)
(2) For Restricted Data documents:
(i)
Identity of the classifier.
The identity of the classifier must be shown by completion of the “Derivative Classifier” line. The “Derivative Classifier” line must show the name of the person classifying the document and the basis for the classification. Dates for downgrading or declassification do not apply.
(ii)
Classification designation (e.g., Secret, Confidential) and Restricted Data.
NOTE: No “Declassification” instructions will be placed on documents containing Restricted Data.
(d)
Placement of markings.
The highest classification marking assigned to a document must be placed in a conspicuous fashion in letters at the top and bottom of the outside of the front covers and title pages, if any, and first and last pages on which text appears, on both bound and unbound documents, and on the outside of back covers of bound documents. The balance of the pages must be marked at the top and bottom with:
(1) The overall classification marking assigned to the document;
(2) The highest classification marking required by content of the page; or
(3) The marking UNCLASSIFIED if they have no classified content.
(e)
Additional markings.
(1) If the document contains any form of Restricted Data, it must bear the appropriate marking on the first page of text, on the front cover and title page, if any. For example: “This document contains Restricted Data as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954. Unauthorized disclosure subject to Administrative and Criminal Sanctions.”
(2)
Limitation on reproduction or dissemination.
If the originator or classifier determines that reproduction or further dissemination of a document should be restricted, the following additional wording may be placed on the face of the document:
Reproduction or Further Dissemination Requires Approval of
If any portion of this additional marking does not apply, it should be crossed out.
(f)
Portion markings.
In addition to the information required on the face of the document, each classified document is required, by marking or other means, to indicate clearly which portions are classified (e.g., paragraphs or pages) and which portions are not classified. The symbols (S) for Secret, (C) for Confidential, (U) for Unclassified, or (RD) for Restricted Data may be used immediately preceding or following the text to which it applies, except that the designation must follow titles or subjects. (Portion marking of paragraphs is not required for documents containing Restricted Data.) If this type of portion marking is not practicable, the document must contain a description sufficient to identify the classified information and the unclassified information.

# Example
Pages 1-3 Secret
Pages 4-19 Unclassified
Pages 20-26 Secret
Pages 27-32 Confidential
(g)
Transmittal document.
If a document transmitting classified information contains no classified information or the classification level of the transmittal document is not as high as the highest classification level of its enclosures, then the document must be marked at the top and bottom with a classification at least as high as its highest classified enclosure. The classification may be higher if the enclosures, when combined, warrant a higher classification than any individual enclosure. When the contents of the transmittal document warrants a lower classification than the highest classified enclosure(s) or combination of enclosures or requires no classification, a stamp or marking such as the following must also be used on the transmittal document:
UPON REMOVAL OF ATTACHMENTS THIS DOCUMENT IS:
(Classification level of transmittal document standing alone or the word “UNCLASSIFIED” if the transmittal document contains no classified information.)
(h)
Classification challenges.
Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons in authorized possession of classified National Security Information who in good faith believe that the information's classification status (
i.e.
, that the document), is classified at either too high a level for its content (overclassification) or too low for its content (underclassification) are expected to challenge its classification status. Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons who wish to challenge a classification status shall—
(1) Refer the document or information to the originator or to an authorized NRC classifier for review. The authorized classifier shall review the document and render a written classification decision to the holder of the information.
(2) In the event of a question regarding classification review, the holder of the information or the authorized classifier shall consult the NRC Division of Facilities and Security, Information Security Branch, for assistance.
(3) Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons who challenge classification decisions have the right to appeal the classification decision to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel.
(4) Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons seeking to challenge the classification of information will not be the subject of retribution.
(i)
Files, folders or group of documents.
Files, folders, binders, or groups of physically connected documents must be marked at least as high as the highest classified document which they contain.
(j)
Drafts and working papers.
Drafts of documents and working papers which contain, or which are believed to contain, classified information must be marked as classified information.
(k)
Classification guidance.
Licensees, certificate holders, or other persons subject to this part shall classify and mark classified matter as National Security Information or Restricted Data, as appropriate, in accordance with classification guidance provided by the NRC as part of the facility clearance process.
[62 FR 17695, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15652, Apr. 1, 1999; 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 72 FR 49563, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.39
External transmission of documents and material.
(a)
Restrictions.
Documents and material containing classified information received or originated in connection with an NRC license, certificate, or standard design approval or standard design certification under part 52 of this chapter must be transmitted only to CSA approved security facilities.
(b)
Preparation of documents.
Documents containing classified information must be prepared in accordance with the following when transmitted outside an individual installation.
(1) The documents must be enclosed in two sealed opaque envelopes or wrappers.
(2) The inner envelope or wrapper must contain the addressee's classified mail address and the name of the intended recipient. The appropriate classification must be placed on both sides of the envelope (top and bottom) and the additional markings, as appropriate, referred to in § 95.37(e) must be placed on the side bearing the address.
(3) The outer envelope or wrapper must contain the addressee's classified mailing address. The outer envelope or wrapper may not contain any classification, additional marking or other notation that indicate that the enclosed document contains classified information. The Classified Mailing Address shall be uniquely designated for the receipt of classified information. The classified shipping address for the receipt of material (e.g., equipment) should be different from the classified mailing address for the receipt of classified documents.
(4) A receipt that contains an unclassified description of the document, the document number, if any, date of the document, classification, the date of transfer, the recipient and the person transferring the document must be enclosed within the inner envelope containing the document and be signed by the recipient and returned to the sender whenever the custody of a Secret document is transferred. This receipt process is at the option of the sender for Confidential information.
(c)
Methods of transportation.
(1) Secret matter may be transported only by one of the following methods within and directly between the U.S., Puerto Rico, or a U.S. possession or trust territory:
(i) U.S. Postal Service Express Mail and U.S. Postal Service Registered Mail.

# Note:
The “Waiver of Signature and Indemnity” block on the U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Label 11-B may not be executed and the use of external (street side) express mail collection boxes is prohibited.
(ii) A cleared “Commercial Carrier.”
(iii) A cleared commercial messenger service engaged in the intracity/local area delivery (same day delivery only) of classified material.
(iv) A commercial delivery company, approved by the CSA, that provides nationwide, overnight service with computer tracing and reporting features. These companies need not be security cleared.
(v) Other methods as directed, in writing, by the CSA.
(2) Confidential matter may be transported by one of the methods set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, by U.S. express or certified mail. Express or certified mail may be used in transmission of Confidential documents to Puerto Rico or any United States territory or possession.
(d)
Telecommunication of classified information.
Classified information may not be telecommunicated unless the telecommunication system has been approved by the CSA. Licensees, certificate holders or other persons who may require a secure telecommunication system shall submit a telecommunication plan as part of their request for facility clearance, as outlined in § 95.15, or as an amendment to their existing Standard Practice Procedures Plan for the protection of classified information.
(e)
Security of classified information in transit.
Classified matter that, because of its nature, cannot be transported in accordance with § 95.39(c), may only be transported in accordance with procedures approved by the CSA. Procedures for transporting classified matter are based on a satisfactory transportation plan submitted as part of the licensee's, certificate holder, or other person's request for facility clearance or submitted as an amendment to its existing Standard Practice Procedures Plan.
[62 FR 17696, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15652, Apr. 1, 1999; 72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.41
External receipt and dispatch records.
Each licensee, certificate holder or other person possessing classified information shall maintain a record that reflects:
(a) The date of the material;
(b) The date of receipt or dispatch;
(c) The classification;
(d) An unclassified description of the material; and
(e) The identity of the sender from which the material was received or recipient to which the material was dispatched. receipt and dispatch records must be retained for 2 years.
[62 FR 17697, Apr. 11, 1997]
§ 95.43
Authority to reproduce.
(a) Each licensee, certificate holder, or other person possessing classified information shall establish a reproduction control system to ensure that reproduction of classified material is held to the minimum consistent with operational requirements. Classified reproduction must be accomplished by authorized employees knowledgeable of the procedures for classified reproduction. The use of technology that prevents, discourages, or detects the unauthorized reproduction of classified documents is encouraged.
(b) Unless restricted by the CSA, Secret and Confidential documents may be reproduced. Reproduced copies of classified documents are subject to the same protection as the original documents.
(c) All reproductions of classified material must be conspicuously marked with the same classification markings as the material being reproduced. Copies of classified material must be reviewed after the reproduction process to ensure that these markings are visible.
[62 FR 17697, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.45
Changes in classification.
(a) Documents containing classified National Security Information must be downgraded or declassified as authorized by the NRC classification guides or as determined by the NRC. Requests for downgrading or declassifying any NRC classified information should be forwarded to the NRC's Division of Security Operations, Nuclear Security and Incident Response, using an appropriate method listed in § 95.9. Requests for downgrading or declassifying of Restricted Data will be forwarded to the NRC Division of Security Operations for coordination with the Department of Energy.
(b) If a change of classification or declassification is approved, the previous classification marking must be canceled and the following statement, properly completed, must be placed on the first page of the document:
Classification canceled (or changed to)
(Insert appropriate classification)
By authority of
(Person authorizing change in classification)
By
(Signature of person making change and date thereof)
(c) New markings reflecting the current classification status of the document will be applied in accordance with the requirements of § 95.37.
(d) Any licensee, certificate holder, or other person making a change in classification or receiving notice of such a change shall forward notice of the change in classification to holders of all copies as shown on their records.
[62 FR 17697, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15653, Apr. 1, 1999; 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 68 FR 58823, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007; 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.47
Destruction of matter containing classified information.
Documents containing classified information may be destroyed by burning, pulping, or another method that ensures complete destruction of the information that they contain. The method of destruction must preclude recognition or reconstruction of the classified information. Any doubts on methods should be referred to the CSA.
[64 FR 15653, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 95.49
Security of automatic data processing (ADP) systems.
Classified data or information may not be processed or produced on an ADP system unless the system and procedures to protect the classified data or information have been approved by the CSA. Approval of the ADP system and procedures is based on a satisfactory ADP security proposal submitted as part of the licensee's, certificate holder's, or other person's request for facility clearance outlined in § 95.15 or submitted as an amendment to its existing Standard Practice Procedures Plan for the protection of classified information.
[72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.51
Retrieval of classified matter following suspension or revocation of access authorization.
In any case where the access authorization of an individual is suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures set forth in part 25 of this chapter, or other relevant CSA procedures, the licensee, certificate holder, or other person shall, upon due notice from the Commission of such suspension or revocation, retrieve all classified information possessed by the individual and take the action necessary to preclude that individual having further access to the information.
[72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 95.53
Termination of facility clearance.
(a) If the need to use, process, store, reproduce, transmit, transport, or handle classified matter no longer exists, the facility clearance will be terminated. The licensee, certificate holder, or other person for the facility may deliver all documents and matter containing classified information to the Commission, or to a person authorized to receive them, or must destroy all classified documents and matter. In either case, the licensee, certificate holder, or other person for the facility shall submit a certification of nonpossession of classified information to the NRC Division of Security Operations within 30 days of the termination of the facility clearance.
(b) In any instance where a facility clearance has been terminated based on a determination of the CSA that further possession of classified matter by the facility would not be in the interest of the national security, the licensee, certificate holder, or other person for the facility shall, upon notice from the CSA, dispose of classified documents in a manner specified by the CSA.
[72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.55
Continued applicability of the regulations in this part.
The suspension, revocation or other termination of access authorization or the termination of facility clearance does not relieve any person from compliance with the regulations in this part.
[62 FR 17698, Apr. 11, 1997]
§ 95.57
Reports.
Each licensee, certificate holder, or other person having a facility clearance shall report to the CSA and the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in 10 CFR part 73, appendix A:
(a) Any alleged or suspected violation of the Atomic Energy Act, Espionage Act, or other Federal statutes related to classified information (e.g., deliberate disclosure of classified information to persons not authorized to receive it, theft of classified information). Incidents such as this must be reported within 1 hour of the event followed by written confirmation within 30 days of the incident; and
(b) Any infractions, losses, compromises, or possible compromise of classified information or classified documents not falling within paragraph
(a) of this section. Incidents such as these must be entered into a written log. A copy of the log must be provided to the NRC on a monthly basis. Details of security infractions including corrective action taken must be available to the CSA upon request.
(c) In addition, NRC requires records for all classification actions (documents classified, declassified, or downgraded) to be submitted to the NRC Division of Security Operations. These may be submitted either on an “as completed” basis or monthly. The information may be submitted either electronically by an on-line system (NRC prefers the use of a dial-in automated system connected to the Division of Security Operations) or by paper copy using NRC Form 790.
[64 FR 15653, Apr. 1, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 41222, July 11, 2003; 72 FR 49564, Aug. 28, 2007; 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 95.59
Inspections.
The Commission shall make inspections and reviews of the premises, activities, records and procedures of any licensee, certificate holder, or other person subject to the regulations in this part as the Commission and CSA deem necessary to effect the purposes of the Act, E.O. 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor order, and/or NRC rules.
[75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010]

# Violations
§ 95.61
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under Section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55080, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 95.63
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 95 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 95 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 95.1, 95.3, 95.5, 95.7, 95.8, 95.9, 95.11, 95.17, 95.19, 95.21, 95.23, 95.55, 95.59, 95.61, and 95.63.
[57 FR 55080, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 100

# PART 100—REACTOR SITE CRITERIA
Sec.
100.1
Purpose.
100.2
Scope.
100.3
Definitions.
100.4
Communications.
100.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Subpart A—Evaluation Factors for Stationary Power Reactor Site Applications Before January 10, 1997 and for Testing Reactors
100.10
Factors to be considered when evaluating sites.
100.11
Determination of exclusion area, low population zone, and population center distance.

# Subpart B—Evaluation Factors for Stationary Power Reactor Site Applications on or After January 10, 1997
100.20
Factors to be considered when evaluating sites.
100.21
Non-seismic siting criteria.
100.23
Geologic and seismic siting criteria.
Appendix A to Part 100—Seismic and Geologic Siting Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 103, 104, 161, 182 (42 U.S.C. 2133, 2134, 2201, 2232); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
27 FR 3509, Apr. 12, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 100 appear at 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016.
§ 100.1
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to establish approval requirements for proposed sites for stationary power and testing reactors subject to part 50 or part 52 of this chapter.
(b) There exists a substantial base of knowledge regarding power reactor siting, design, construction and operation. This base reflects that the primary factors that determine public health and safety are the reactor design, construction and operation.
(c) Siting factors and criteria are important in assuring that radiological doses from normal operation and postulated accidents will be acceptably low, that natural phenomena and potential man-made hazards will be appropriately accounted for in the design of the plant, that site characteristics are such that adequate security measures to protect the plant can be developed, and that physical characteristics unique to the proposed site that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans are identified.
(d) This approach incorporates the appropriate standards and criteria for approval of stationary power and testing reactor sites. The Commission intends to carry out a traditional defense-in-depth approach with regard to reactor siting to ensure public safety. Siting away from densely populated centers has been and will continue to be an important factor in evaluating applications for site approval.
[61 FR 65175, Dec. 11, 1996]
§ 100.2
Scope.
The siting requirements contained in this part apply to applications for site approval for the purpose of constructing and operating stationary power and testing reactors pursuant to the provisions of part 50 or part 52 of this chapter.
[61 FR 65175, Dec. 11, 1996]
§ 100.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Combined license
means a combined construction permit and operating license with conditions for a nuclear power facility issued pursuant to subpart C of part 52 of this chapter.
Early Site Permit
means a Commission approval, issued pursuant to subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, for a site or sites for one or more nuclear power facilities.
Exclusion area
means that area surrounding the reactor, in which the reactor licensee has the authority to determine all activities including exclusion or removal of personnel and property from the area. This area may be traversed by a highway, railroad, or waterway, provided these are not so close to the facility as to interfere with normal operations of the facility and provided appropriate and effective arrangements are made to control traffic on the highway, railroad, or waterway, in case of emergency, to protect the public health and safety. Residence within the exclusion area shall normally be prohibited. In any event, residents shall be subject to ready removal in case of necessity. Activities unrelated to operation of the reactor may be permitted in an exclusion area under appropriate limitations, provided that no significant hazards to the public health and safety will result.
Low population zone
means the area immediately surrounding the exclusion area which contains residents, the total number and density of which are such that there is a reasonable probability that appropriate protective measures could be taken in their behalf in the event of a serious accident. These guides do not specify a permissible population density or total population within this zone because the situation may vary from case to case. Whether a specific number of people can, for example, be evacuated from a specific area, or instructed to take shelter, on a timely basis will depend
on many factors such as location, number and size of highways, scope and extent of advance planning, and actual distribution of residents within the area.
Population center distance
means the distance from the reactor to the nearest boundary of a densely populated center containing more than about 25,000 residents.
Power reactor
means a nuclear reactor of a type described in § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this chapter designed to produce electrical or heat energy.
Response spectrum
is a plot of the maximum responses (acceleration, velocity, or displacement) of idealized single-degree-of-freedom oscillators as a function of the natural frequencies of the oscillators for a given damping value. The response spectrum is calculated for a specified vibratory motion input at the oscillators' supports.
Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion
is the vibratory ground motion for which certain structures, systems, and components must be designed pursuant to appendix S to part 50 of this chapter to remain functional.
Surface deformation
is distortion of geologic strata at or near the ground surface by the processes of folding or faulting as a result of various earth forces. Tectonic surface deformation is associated with earthquake processes.
Testing reactor
means a
testing facility
as defined in § 50.2 of this chapter.
[61 FR 65175, Dec. 11, 1996]
§ 100.4
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent by mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. Copies should be sent to the appropriate Regional Office and Resident Inspector.
[73 FR 5726, Jan. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74982, Dec. 1, 2015; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 100.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conductor sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0093.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 100.21, 100.23 and appendix A to this part.
[61 FR 65176, Dec. 11, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 52190, Oct. 6, 1997; 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002]

# Subpart A—Evaluation Factors for Stationary Power Reactor Site Applications Before January 10, 1997 and for Testing Reactors
§ 100.10
Factors to be considered when evaluating sites.
Factors considered in the evaluation of sites include those relating both to the proposed reactor design and the characteristics peculiar to the site. It is expected that reactors will reflect through their design, construction and
operation an extremely low probability for accidents that could result in release of significant quantities of radioactive fission products. In addition, the site location and the engineered features included as safeguards against the hazardous consequences of an accident, should one occur, should insure a low risk of public exposure. In particular, the Commission will take the following factors into consideration in determining the acceptability of a site for a power or testing reactor:
(a) Characteristics of reactor design and proposed operation including:
(1) Intended use of the reactor including the proposed maximum power level and the nature and inventory of contained radioactive materials;
(2) The extent to which generally accepted engineering standards are applied to the design of the reactor;
(3) The extent to which the reactor incorporates unique or unusual features having a significant bearing on the probability or consequences of accidental release of radioactive materials;
(4) The safety features that are to be engineered into the facility and those barriers that must be breached as a result of an accident before a release of radioactive material to the environment can occur.
(b) Population density and use characteristics of the site environs, including the exclusion area, low population zone, and population center distance.
(c) Physical characteristics of the site, including seismology, meteorology, geology, and hydrology.
(1) Appendix A, “Seismic and Geologic Siting Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants,” describes the nature of investigations required to obtain the geologic and seismic data necessary to determine site suitability and to provide reasonable assurance that a nuclear power plant can be constructed and operated at a proposed site without undue risk to the health and safety of the public. It describes procedures for determining the quantitative vibratory ground motion design basis at a site due to earthquakes and describes information needed to determine whether and to what extent a nuclear power plant need be designed to withstand the effects of surface faulting.
(2) Meteorological conditions at the site and in the surrounding area should be considered.
(3) Geological and hydrological characteristics of the proposed site may have a bearing on the consequences of an escape of radioactive material from the facility. Special precautions should be planned if a reactor is to be located at a site where a significant quantity of radioactive effluent might accidentally flow into nearby streams or rivers or might find ready access to underground water tables.
(d) Where unfavorable physical characteristics of the site exist, the proposed site may nevertheless be found to be acceptable if the design of the facility includes appropriate and adequate compensating engineering safeguards.
[27 FR 3509, Apr. 12, 1962, as amended at 38 FR 31281, Nov. 13, 1973]
§ 100.11
Determination of exclusion area, low population zone, and population center distance.
(a) As an aid in evaluating a proposed site, an applicant should assume a fission produce release
1
from the core, the expected demonstrable leak rate from the containment and the meteorological conditions pertinent to his site to derive an exclusion area, a low population zone and population center distance. For the purpose of this analysis, which shall set forth the basis for the numerical values used, the applicant should determine the following:
1
The fission product release assumed for these calculations should be based upon a major accident, hypothesized for purposes of site analysis or postulated from considerations of possible accidental events, that would result in potential hazards not exceeded by those from any accident considered credible. Such accidents have generally been assumed to result in substantial meltdown of the core with subsequent release of appreciable quantities of fission products.
(1) An exclusion area of such size that an individual located at any point on its boundary for two hours immediately following onset of the postulated fission product release would not receive a total radiation dose to the whole body in excess of 25 rem
2
or a
total radiation dose in excess of 300 rem
2
to the thyroid from iodine exposure.
2
The whole body dose of 25 rem referred to above corresponds numerically to the once in a lifetime accidental or emergency dose for
radiation workers which, according to NCRP recommendations may be disregarded in the determination of their radiation exposure status (see NBS Handbook 69 dated June 5, 1959). However, neither its use nor that of the 300 rem value for thyroid exposure as set forth in these site criteria guides are intended to imply that these numbers constitute acceptable limits for emergency doses to the public under accident conditions. Rather, this 25 rem whole body value and the 300 rem thyroid value have been set forth in these guides as reference values, which can be used in the evaluation of reactor sites with respect to potential reactor accidents of exceedingly low probability of occurrence, and low risk of public exposure to radiation.
(2) A low population zone of such size that an individual located at any point on its outer boundary who is exposed to the radioactive cloud resulting from the postulated fission product release (during the entire period of its passage) would not receive a total radiation dose to the whole body in excess of 25 rem or a total radiation dose in excess of 300 rem to the thyroid from iodine exposure.
(3) A population center distance of at least one and one-third times the distance from the reactor to the outer boundary of the low population zone. In applying this guide, the boundary of the population center shall be determined upon consideration of population distribution. Political boundaries are not controlling in the application of this guide. Where very large cities are involved, a greater distance may be necessary because of total integrated population dose consideration.
(b) For sites for multiple reactor facilities consideration should be given to the following:
(1) If the reactors are independent to the extent that an accident in one reactor would not initiate an accident in another, the size of the exclusion area, low population zone and population center distance shall be fulfilled with respect to each reactor individually. The envelopes of the plan overlay of the areas so calculated shall then be taken as their respective boundaries.
(2) If the reactors are interconnected to the extent that an accident in one reactor could affect the safety of operation of any other, the size of the exclusion area, low population zone and population center distance shall be based upon the assumption that all interconnected reactors emit their postulated fission product releases simultaneously. This requirement may be reduced in relation to the degree of coupling between reactors, the probability of concomitant accidents and the probability that an individual would not be exposed to the radiation effects from simultaneous releases. The applicant would be expected to justify to the satisfaction of the Commission the basis for such a reduction in the source term.
(3) The applicant is expected to show that the simultaneous operation of multiple reactors at a site will not result in total radioactive effluent releases beyond the allowable limits of applicable regulations.

# Note:
For further guidance in developing the exclusion area, the low population zone, and the population center distance, reference is made to Technical Information Document 14844, dated March 23, 1962, which contains a procedural method and a sample calculation that result in distances roughly reflecting current siting practices of the Commission. The calculations described in Technical Information Document 14844 may be used as a point of departure for consideration of particular site requirements which may result from evaluation of the characteristics of a particular reactor, its purpose and method of operation.
[27 FR 3509, Apr. 12, 1962, as amended at 31 FR 4670, Mar. 19, 1966; 38 FR 1273, Jan. 11, 1973; 40 FR 8793, Mar. 3, 1975; 40 FR 26527, June 24, 1975; 53 FR 43422, Oct. 27, 1988; 64 FR 48955, Sept. 9, 1999; 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002]

# Subpart B—Evaluation Factors for Stationary Power Reactor Site Applications on or After January 10, 1997

# Source:
61 FR 65176, Dec. 11, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.20
Factors to be considered when evaluating sites.
The Commission will take the following factors into consideration in determining the acceptability of a site for a stationary power reactor:
(a) Population density and use characteristics of the site environs, including the exclusion area, the population distribution, and site-related characteristics must be evaluated to determine whether individual as well as societal risk of potential plant accidents is low, and that physical characteristics unique to the proposed site that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans are identified.
(b) The nature and proximity of man-related hazards (e.g., airports, dams, transportation routes, military and chemical facilities) must be evaluated to establish site characteristics for use in determining whether a plant design can accommodate commonly occurring hazards, and whether the risk of other hazards is very low.
(c) Physical characteristics of the site, including seismology, meteorology, geology, and hydrology.
(1) Section 100.23, “Geologic and seismic siting factors,” describes the criteria and nature of investigations required to obtain the geologic and seismic data necessary to determine the suitability of the proposed site and the plant design bases.
(2) Meteorological characteristics of the site that are necessary for safety analysis or that may have an impact upon plant design (such as maximum probable wind speed and precipitation) must be identified and characterized.
(3) Factors important to hydrological radionuclide transport (such as soil, sediment, and rock characteristics, adsorption and retention coefficients, groundwater velocity, and distances to the nearest surface body of water) must be obtained from on-site measurements. The maximum probable flood along with the potential for seismically induced floods discussed in § 100.23 (d)(3) must be estimated using historical data.
[61 FR 65176, Dec. 11, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 34250, June 7, 2013]
§ 100.21
Non-seismic siting criteria.
Applications for site approval for commercial power reactors shall demonstrate that the proposed site meets the following criteria:
(a) Every site must have an exclusion area and a low population zone, as defined in § 100.3;
(b) The population center distance, as defined in § 100.3, must be at least one and one-third times the distance from the reactor to the outer boundary of the low population zone. In applying this guide, the boundary of the population center shall be determined upon consideration of population distribution. Political boundaries are not controlling in the application of this guide;
(c) Site atmospheric dispersion characteristics must be evaluated and dispersion parameters established such that:
(1) Radiological effluent release limits associated with normal operation from the type of facility proposed to be located at the site can be met for any individual located offsite; and
(2) Radiological dose consequences of postulated accidents shall meet the criteria set forth in § 50.34(a)(1) of this chapter for the type of facility proposed to be located at the site;
(d) The physical characteristics of the site, including meteorology, geology, seismology, and hydrology must be evaluated and site characteristics established such that potential threats from such physical characteristics will pose no undue risk to the type of facility proposed to be located at the site;
(e) Potential hazards associated with nearby transportation routes, industrial and military facilities must be evaluated and site characteristics established such that potential hazards from such routes and facilities will pose no undue risk to the type of facility proposed to be located at the site;
(f) Site characteristics must be such that adequate security plans and measures can be developed;
(g) Physical characteristics unique to the proposed site that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans must be identified;
(h) Reactor sites should be located away from very densely populated centers. Areas of low population density are, generally, preferred. However, in determining the acceptability of a particular site located away from a very densely populated center but not in an
area of low density, consideration will be given to safety, environmental, economic, or other factors, which may result in the site being found acceptable
3
.
3
Examples of these factors include, but are not limited to, such factors as the higher population density site having superior seismic characteristics, better access to skilled labor for construction, better rail and highway access, shorter transmission line requirements, or less environmental impact on undeveloped areas, wetlands or endangered species, etc. Some of these factors are included in, or impact, the other criteria included in this section.
[61 FR 65176, Dec. 11, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 34250, June 7, 2013]
§ 100.23
Geologic and seismic siting criteria.
This section sets forth the principal geologic and seismic considerations that guide the Commission in its evaluation of the suitability of a proposed site and adequacy of the design bases established in consideration of the geologic and seismic characteristics of the proposed site, such that, there is a reasonable assurance that a nuclear power plant can be constructed and operated at the proposed site without undue risk to the health and safety of the public. Applications to engineering design are contained in appendix S to part 50 of this chapter.
(a)
Applicability.
The requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section apply to applicants for an early site permit or combined license pursuant to Part 52 of this chapter, or a construction permit or operating license for a nuclear power plant pursuant to Part 50 of this chapter on or after January 10, 1997. However, for either an operating license applicant or holder whose construction permit was issued prior to January 10, 1997, the seismic and geologic siting criteria in Appendix A to Part 100 of this chapter continues to apply.
(b)
Commencement of construction.
The investigations required in paragraph (c) of this section are not considered “construction” as defined in 10 CFR 50.10(a).
(c)
Geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics.
The geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics of a site and its environs must be investigated in sufficient scope and detail to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed site, to provide sufficient information to support evaluations performed to arrive at estimates of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion, and to permit adequate engineering solutions to actual or potential geologic and seismic effects at the proposed site. The size of the region to be investigated and the type of data pertinent to the investigations must be determined based on the nature of the region surrounding the proposed site. Data on the vibratory ground motion, tectonic surface deformation, nontectonic deformation, earthquake recurrence rates, fault geometry and slip rates, site foundation material, and seismically induced floods and water waves must be obtained by reviewing pertinent literature and carrying out field investigations. However, each applicant shall investigate all geologic and seismic factors (for example, volcanic activity) that may affect the design and operation of the proposed nuclear power plant irrespective of whether such factors are explicitly included in this section.
(d)
Geologic and seismic siting factors.
The geologic and seismic siting factors considered for design must include a determination of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion for the site, the potential for surface tectonic and nontectonic deformations, the design bases for seismically induced floods and water waves, and other design conditions as stated in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(1) Determination of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion. The Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion for the site is characterized by both horizontal and vertical free-field ground motion response spectra at the free ground surface. The Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion for the site is determined considering the results of the investigations required by paragraph (c) of this section. Uncertainties are inherent in such estimates. These uncertainties must be addressed through an appropriate analysis, such as a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis or suitable sensitivity analyses.
Paragraph IV(a)(1) of appendix S to part 50 of this chapter defines the minimum Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion for design.
(2) Determination of the potential for surface tectonic and nontectonic deformations. Sufficient geological, seismological, and geophysical data must be provided to clearly establish whether there is a potential for surface deformation.
(3) Determination of design bases for seismically induced floods and water waves. The size of seismically induced floods and water waves that could affect a site from either locally or distantly generated seismic activity must be determined.
(4) Determination of siting factors for other design conditions. Siting factors for other design conditions that must be evaluated include soil and rock stability, liquefaction potential, natural and artificial slope stability, cooling water supply, and remote safety-related structure siting. Each applicant shall evaluate all siting factors and potential causes of failure, such as, the physical properties of the materials underlying the site, ground disruption, and the effects of vibratory ground motion that may affect the design and operation of the proposed nuclear power plant.
[61 FR 65176, Dec. 11, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 57447, Oct. 9, 2007]
Pt. 100, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 100—Seismic and Geologic Siting Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants

# i. purpose
General Design Criterion 2 of Appendix A to part 50 of this chapter requires that nuclear power plant structures, systems, and components important to safety be designed to withstand the effects of natural phenomena such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, tsunami, and seiches without loss of capability to perform their safety functions. It is the purpose of these criteria to set forth the principal seismic and geologic considerations which guide the Commission in its evaluation of the suitability of proposed sites for nuclear power plants and the suitability of the plant design bases established in consideration of the seismic and geologic characteristics of the proposed sites.
These criteria are based on the limited geophysical and geological information available to date concerning faults and earthquake occurrence and effect. They will be revised as necessary when more complete information becomes available.

# ii. scope
These criteria, which apply to nuclear power plants, describe the nature of the investigations required to obtain the geologic and seismic data necessary to determine site suitability and provide reasonable assurance that a nuclear power plant can be constructed and operated at a proposed site without undue risk to the health and safety of the public. They describe procedures for determining the quantitative vibratory ground motion design basis at a site due to earthquakes and describe information needed to determine whether and to what extent a nuclear power plant need be designed to withstand the effects of surface faulting. Other geologic and seismic factors required to be taken into account in the siting and design of nuclear power plants are identified.
The investigations described in this appendix are within the scope of investigations permitted by § 50.10(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
Each applicant for a construction permit shall investigate all seismic and geologic factors that may affect the design and operation of the proposed nuclear power plant irrespective of whether such factors are explicitly included in these criteria. Additional investigations and/or more conservative determinations than those included in these criteria may be required for sites located in areas having complex geology or in areas of high seismicity. If an applicant believes that the particular seismology and geology of a site indicate that some of these criteria, or portions thereof, need not be satisfied, the specific sections of these criteria should be identified in the license application, and supporting data to justify clearly such departures should be presented.
These criteria do not address investigations of volcanic phenomena required for sites located in areas of volcanic activity. Investigations of the volcanic aspects of such sites will be determined on a case-by-case basis.

# iii. definitions
As used in these criteria:
(a) The
magnitude
of an earthquake is a measure of the size of an earthquake and is related to the energy released in the form of seismic waves.
Magnitude
means the numerical value on a Richter scale.
(b) The
intensity
of an earthquake is a measure of its effects on man, on man-built structures, and on the earth's surface at a particular location.
Intensity
means the numerical value on the Modified Mercalli scale.
(c) The
Safe Shutdown Earthquake
1
is that earthquake which is based upon an evaluation of the maximum earthquake potential considering the regional and local geology and seismology and specific characteristics of local subsurface material. It is that earthquake which produces the maximum vibratory ground motion for which certain structures, systems, and components are designed to remain functional. These structures, systems, and components are those necessary to assure:
1
The
Safe Shutdown Earthquake
defines that earthquake which has commonly been referred to as the
Design Basis Earthquake.
(1) The integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary,
(2) The capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe shutdown condition, or
(3) The capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents which could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to the guideline exposures of this part.
(d) The
Operating Basis Earthquake
is that earthquake which, considering the regional and local geology and seismology and specific characteristics of local subsurface material, could reasonably be expected to affect the plant site during the operating life of the plant; it is that earthquake which produces the vibratory ground motion for which those features of the nuclear power plant necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public are designed to remain functional.
(e) A
fault
is a tectonic structure along which differential slippage of the adjacent earth materials has occurred parallel to the fracture plane. It is distinct from other types of ground disruptions such as landslides, fissures, and craters. A fault may have gouge or breccia between its two walls and includes any associated monoclinal flexure or other similar geologic structural feature.
(f)
Surface faulting
is differential ground displacement at or near the surface caused directly by fault movement and is distinct from nontectonic types of ground disruptions, such as landslides, fissures, and craters.
(g) A
capable fault
is a fault which has exhibited one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) Movement at or near the ground surface at least once within the past 35,000 years or movement of a recurring nature within the past 500,000 years.
(2) Macro-seismicity instrumentally determined with records of sufficient precision to demonstrate a direct relationship with the fault.
(3) A structural relationship to a capable fault according to characteristics (1) or (2) of this paragraph such that movement on one could be reasonably expected to be accompanied by movement on the other.
In some cases, the geologic evidence of past activity at or near the ground surface along a particular fault may be obscured at a particular site. This might occur, for example, at a site having a deep overburden. For these cases, evidence may exist elsewhere along the fault from which an evaluation of its characteristics in the vicinity of the site can be reasonably based. Such evidence shall be used in determining whether the fault is a capable fault within this definition.
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs III(g) (1), (2) and (3), structural association of a fault with geologic structural features which are geologically old (at least pre-Quaternary) such as many of those found in the Eastern region of the United States shall, in the absence of conflicting evidence, demonstrate that the fault is not a capable fault within this definition.
(h) A
tectonic province
is a region of the North American continent characterized by a relative consistency of the geologic structural features contained therein.
(i) A
tectonic structure
is a large scale dislocation or distortion within the earth's crust. Its extent is measured in miles.
(j) A
zone requiring detailed faulting investigation
is a zone within which a nuclear power reactor may not be located unless a detailed investigation of the regional and local geologic and seismic characteristics of the site demonstrates that the need to design for surface faulting has been properly determined.
(k) The
control width
of a fault is the maximum width of the zone containing mapped fault traces, including all faults which can be reasonably inferred to have experienced differential movement during Quaternary times and which join or can reasonably be inferred to join the main fault trace, measured within 10 miles along the fault's trend in both directions from the point of nearest approach to the site. (See Figure 1 of this appendix.)
(l) A
response spectrum
is a plot of the maximum responses (acceleration, velocity or displacement) of a family of idealized single-degree-of-freedom damped oscillators against natural frequencies (or periods) of the oscillators to a specified vibratory motion input at their supports.

# iv. required investigations
The geologic, seismic and engineering characteristics of a site and its environs shall be investigated in sufficient scope and detail to provide reasonable assurance that they are sufficiently well understood to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed site, and to provide sufficient information to support the determinations required by these
criteria and to permit adequate engineering solutions to actual or potential geologic and seismic effects at the proposed site. The size of the region to be investigated and the type of data pertinent to the investigations shall be determined by the nature of the region surrounding the proposed site. The investigations shall be carried out by a review of the pertinent literature and field investigations and shall include the steps outlined in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Required Investigation for Vibratory Ground Motion.
The purpose of the investigations required by this paragraph is to obtain information needed to describe the vibratory ground motion produced by the Safe Shutdown Earthquake. All of the steps in paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(8) of this section need not be carried out if the Safe Shutdown Earthquake can be clearly established by investigations and determinations of a lesser scope. The investigations required by this paragraph provide an adequate basis for selection of an Operating Basis Earthquake. The investigations shall include the following:
(1) Determination of the lithologic, stratigraphic, hydrologic, and structural geologic conditions of the site and the region surrounding the site, including its geologic history;
(2) Identification and evaluation of tectonic structures underlying the site and the region surrounding the site, whether buried or expressed at the surface. The evaluation should consider the possible effects caused by man's activities such as withdrawal of fluid from or addition of fluid to the subsurface, extraction of minerals, or the loading effects of dams or reservoirs;
(3) Evaluation of physical evidence concerning the behavior during prior earthquakes of the surficial geologic materials and the substrata underlying the site from the lithologic, stratigraphic, and structural geologic studies;
(4) Determination of the static and dynamic engineering properties of the materials underlying the site. Included should be properties needed to determine the behavior of the underlying material during earthquakes and the characteristics of the underlying material in transmitting earthquake-induced motions to the foundations of the plant, such as seismic wave velocities, density, water content, porosity, and strength;
(5) Listing of all historically reported earthquakes which have affected or which could reasonably be expected to have affected the site, including the date of occurrence and the following measured or estimated data: magnitude or highest intensity, and a plot of the epicenter or location of highest intensity. Where historically reported earthquakes could have caused a maximum ground acceleration of at least one-tenth the acceleration of gravity (0.1g) at the foundations of the proposed nuclear power plant structures, the acceleration or intensity and duration of ground shaking at these foundations shall also be estimated. Since earthquakes have been reported in terms of various parameters such as magnitude, intensity at a given location, and effect on ground, structures, and people at a specific location, some of these data may have to be estimated by use of appropriate empirical relationships. The comparative characteristics of the material underlying the epicentral location or region of highest intensity and of the material underlying the site in transmitting earthquake vibratory motion shall be considered;
(6) Correlation of epicenters or locations of highest intensity of historically reported earthquakes, where possible, with tectonic structures any part of which is located within 200 miles of the site. Epicenters or locations of highest intensity which cannot be reasonably correlated with tectonic structures shall be identified with tectonic provinces any part of which is located within 200 miles of the site;
(7) For faults, any part of which is within 200 miles
2
of the site and which may be of significance in establishing the Safe Shutdown Earthquake, determination of whether these faults are to be considered as capable faults.
3 4
This determination is required in order to permit appropriate consideration of the geologic history of such faults in establishing the Safe Shutdown Earthquake. For guidance in determining which faults may be of significance in determining the Safe Shutdown Earthquake, table 1 of this appendix presents the minimum length of fault to be considered versus distance from site. Capable faults of lesser length than those indicated in table 1 and faults which are not capable faults need not be considered in determining the Safe Shutdown Earthquake, except where unusual circumstances indicate such consideration is appropriate;
2
If the Safe Shutdown Earthquake can be associated with a fault closer than 200 miles to the site, the procedures of paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(8) of this section need not be carried out for successively more remote faults.
3
In the absence of absolute dating, evidence of recency of movement may be obtained by applying relative dating technique to ruptured, offset, warped or otherwise structurally disturbed surface or near surface materials or geomorphic features.
4
The applicant shall evaluate whether or not a fault is a capable fault with respect to the characteristics outlined in paragraphs III(g)(1), (2), and (3) by conducting a reasonable investigation using suitable geologic and geophysical techniques.
Table 1
Minimum length
1
Distance from the site (miles):
0 to 20
1
Greater than 20 to 50
5
Greater than 50 to 100
10
Greater than 100 to 150
20
Greater than 150 to 200
40
1
Minimum length of fault (miles) which shall be considered in establishing Safe Shutdown Earthquake.
(8) For capable faults, any part of which is within 200 miles
2
of the site and which may be of significance in establishing the Safe Shutdown Earthquake, determination of:
(i) The length of the fault;
(ii) The relationship of the fault to regional tectonic structures; and
(iii) The nature, amount, and geologic history of displacements along the fault, including particularly the estimated amount of the maximum Quaternary displacement related to any one earthquake along the fault.
(b)
Required Investigation for Surface Faulting.
The purpose of the investigations required by this paragraph is to obtain information to determine whether and to what extent the nuclear power plant need be designed for surface faulting. If the design basis for surface faulting can be clearly established by investigations of a lesser scope, not all of the steps in paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(7) of this section need be carried out. The investigations shall include the following:
(1) Determination of the lithologic, stratigraphic, hydrologic, and structural geologic conditions of the site and the area surrounding the site, including its geologic history;
(2) Evaluation of tectonic structures underlying the site, whether buried or expressed at the surface, with regard to their potential for causing surface displacement at or near the site. The evaluation shall consider the possible effects caused by man's activities such as withdrawal of fluid from or addition of fluid to the subsurface, extraction of minerals, or the loading effects of dams or reservoirs;
(3) Determination of geologic evidence of fault offset at or near the ground surface at or near the site;
(4) For faults greater than 1000 feet long, any part of which is within 5 miles
5
of the site, determination of whether these faults are to be considered as capable faults;
6 7
5
If the design basis for surface faulting can be determined from a fault closer than 5 miles to the site, the procedures of paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(7) of this section need not be carried out for successively more remote faults.
6
In the absence of absolute dating, evidence of recency of movement may be obtained by applying relative dating techniques to ruptured, offset, warped or otherwise structurally disturbed surface of near-surface materials or geomorphic features.
7
The applicant shall evaluate whether or not a fault is a capable fault with respect to the characteristics outlined in paragraphs III(g)(1), (2), and (3) by conducting a reasonable investigation using suitable geological and geophysical techniques.
(5) Listing of all historically reported earthquakes which can reasonably be associated with capable faults greater than 1000 feet long, any part of which is within 5 miles
5
of the site, including the date of occurrence and the following measured or estimated data: magnitude or highest intensity, and a plot of the epicenter or region of highest intensity;
(6) Correlation of epicenters or locations of highest intensity of historically reported earthquakes with capable faults greater than 1000 feet long, any part of which is located within 5 miles
5
of the site;
(7) For capable faults greater than 1000 feet long, any part of which is within 5 miles
5
of the site, determination of:
(i) The length of the fault;
(ii) The relationship of the fault to regional tectonic structures;
(iii) The nature, amount, and geologic history of displacements along the fault, including particularly the estimated amount of the maximum Quaternary displacement related to any one earthquake along the fault; and
(iv) The outer limits of the fault established by mapping Quaternary fault traces for 10 miles along its trend in both directions from the point of its nearest approach to the site.
(c)
Required Investigation for Seismically Induced Floods and Water Waves.
(1) For coastal sites, the investigations shall include the determination of:
(i) Information regarding distantly and locally generated waves or tsunami which have affected or could have affected the site. Available evidence regarding the runup and drawdown associated with historic tsunami in the same coastal region as the site shall also be included;
(ii) Local features of coastal topography which might tend to modify tsunami runup or drawdown. Appropriate available evidence regarding historic local modifications in tsunami runup or drawndown at coastal locations having topography similar to that of the site shall also be obtained; and
(iii) Appropriate geologic and seismic evidence to provide information for establishing the design basis for seismically induced
floods or water waves from a local offshore earthquake, from local offshore effects of an onshore earthquake, or from coastal subsidence. This evidence shall be determined, to the extent practical, by a procedure similar to that required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The probable slip characteristics of offshore faults shall also be considered as well as the potential for offshore slides in submarine material.
(2) For sites located near lakes and rivers, investigations similar to those required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be carried out, as appropriate, to determine the potential for the nuclear power plant to be exposed to seismically induced floods and water waves as, for example, from the failure during an earthquake of an upstream dam or from slides of earth or debris into a nearby lake.

# v. seismic and geologic design bases
(a)
Determination of Design Basis for Vibratory Ground Motion.
The design of each nuclear power plant shall take into account the potential effects of vibratory ground motion caused by earthquakes. The design basis for the maximum vibratory ground motion and the expected vibratory ground motion should be determined through evaluation of the seismology, geology, and the seismic and geologic history of the site and the surrounding region. The most severe earthquakes associated with tectonic structures or tectonic provinces in the region surrounding the site should be identified, considering those historically reported earthquakes that can be associated with these structures or provinces and other relevant factors. If faults in the region surrounding the site are capable faults, the most severe earthquakes associated with these faults should be determined by also considering their geologic history. The vibratory ground motion at the site should be then determined by assuming that the epicenters or locations of highest intensity of the earthquakes are situated at the point on the tectonic structures or tectonic provinces nearest to the site. The earthquake which could cause the maximum vibratory ground motion at the site should be designated the Safe Shutdown Earthquake. The specific procedures for determining the design basis for vibratory ground motion are given in the following paragraphs.
(1)
Determination of Safe Shutdown Earthquake.
The Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be identified through evaluation of seismic and geologic information developed pursuant to the requirements of paragraph IV(a), as follows:
(i) The historic earthquakes of greatest magnitude or intensity which have been correlated with tectonic structures pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of section IV shall be determined. In addition, for capable faults, the information required by paragraph (a)(8) of section IV shall also be taken into account in determining the earthquakes of greatest magnitude related to the faults. The magnitude or intensity of earthquakes based on geologic evidence may be larger than that of the maximum earthquakes historically recorded. The accelerations at the site shall be determined assuming that the epicenters of the earthquakes of greatest magnitude or the locations of highest intensity related to the tectonic structures are situated at the point on the structures closest to the site;
(ii) Where epicenters or locations of highest intensity of historically reported earthquakes cannot be reasonably related to tectonic structures but are identified pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of section IV with tectonic provinces in which the site is located, the accelerations at the site shall be determined assuming that these earthquakes occur at the site;
(iii) Where epicenters or locations of the highest intensity of historically reported earthquakes cannot be reasonably related to tectonic structures but are identified pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of section IV with tectonic provinces in which the site is not located, the accelerations at the site shall be determined assuming that the epicenters or locations of highest intensity of these earthquakes are at the closest point to the site on the boundary of the tectonic province;
(iv) The earthquake producing the maximum vibratory acceleration at the site, as determined from paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section shall be designated the Safe Shutdown Earthquake for vibratory ground motion, except as noted in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section. The characteristics of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be derived from more than one earthquake determined from paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, where necessary to assure that the maximum vibratory acceleration at the site throughout the frequency range of interest is included. In the case where a causative fault is near the site, the effect of proximity of an earthquake on the spectral characteristics of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be taken into account. The procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall be applied in a conservative manner. The determinations carried out in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(1)(iii) shall assure that the safe shutdown earthquake intensity is, as a minimum, equal to the maximum historic earthquake intensity experienced within the tectonic province in which the site is located. In the event that geological and seismological data warrant, the Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be larger than that derived by use of the procedures set forth in section IV and V of the appendix.
The maximum vibratory accelerations of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake at each of the various foundation locations of the nuclear power plant structures at a given site shall be determined taking into account the characteristics of the underlying soil material in transmitting the earthquake-induced motions, obtained pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) of section IV. The Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be defined by response spectra corresponding to the maximum vibratory accelerations as outlined in paragraph (a) of section VI; and
(v) Where the maximum vibratory accelerations of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake at the foundations of the nuclear power plant structures are determined to be less than one-tenth the acceleration of gravity (0.1 g) as a result of the steps required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, it shall be assumed that the maximum vibratory accelerations of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake at these foundations are at least 0.1 g.
(2)
Determination of Operating Basis Earthquake.
The Operating Basis Earthquake shall be specified by the applicant after considering the seismology and geology of the region surrounding the site. If vibratory ground motion exceeding that of the Operating Basis Earthquake occurs, shutdown of the nuclear power plant will be required. Prior to resuming operations, the licensee will be required to demonstrate to the Commission that no functional damage has occurred to those features necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public.
The maximum vibratory ground acceleration of the Operating Basis Earthquake shall be at least one-half the maximum vibratory ground acceleration of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake.
(b)
Determination of Need to Design for Surface Faulting.
In order to determine whether a nuclear power plant is required to be designed to withstand the effects of surface faulting, the location of the nuclear power plant with respect to capable faults shall be considered. The area over which each of these faults has caused surface faulting in the past is identified by mapping its fault traces in the vicinity of the site. The fault traces are mapped along the trend of the fault for 10 miles in both directions from the point of its nearest approach to the nuclear power plant because, for example, traces may be obscured along portions of the fault. The maximum width of the mapped fault traces, called the control width, is then determined from this map. Because surface faulting has sometimes occurred beyond the limit of mapped fault traces or where fault traces have not been previously recognized, the control width of the fault is increased by a factor which is dependent upon the largest potential earthquake related to the fault. This larger width delineates a zone, called the zone requiring detailed faulting investigation, in which the possibility of surface faulting is to be determined. The following paragraphs outline the specific procedures for determining the zone requiring detailed faulting investigation for a capable fault.
(1)
Determination of Zone Requiring Detailed Faulting Investigation.
The zone requiring detailed faulting investigation for a capable fault which was investigated pursuant to the requirement of paragraph (b)(7) of section IV shall be determined through use of the following table:
Table 2—Determination of Zone Requiring Detailed Faulting Investigation
Magnitude of earthquake
Width of zone requiring detailed faulting investigation (See fig. 1)
Less than 5.5
1 × control width.
5.5-6.4
2 × control width.
6.5-7.5
3 × control width.
Greater than 7.5
4 × control width.
The largest magnitude earthquake related to the fault shall be used in table 2. This earthquake shall be determined from the information developed pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b) of Section IV for the fault, taking into account the information required by paragraph (b)(7) of section IV. The control width used in table 2 is determined by mapping the outer limits of the fault traces from information developed pursuant to paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of section IV. The control width shall be used in table 2 unless the characteristics of the fault are obscured for a significant portion of the 10 miles on either side of the point of nearest approach to the nuclear power plant. In this event, the use in table 2 of the width of mapped fault traces more than 10 miles from the point of nearest approach to the nuclear power plant may be appropriate.
The zone requiring detailed faulting investigation, as determined from table 2, shall be used for the fault except where:
(i) The zone requiring detailed faulting investigation from table 2 is less than one-half mile in width. In this case the zone shall be at least one-half mile in width; or
(ii) Definitive evidence concerning the regional and local characteristics of the fault justifies use of a different value. For example, thrust or bedding-plane faults may require an increase in width of the zone to account for the projected dip of the fault plane; or
(iii) More detailed three-dimensional information, such as that obtained from precise investigative techniques, may justify the use of a narrower zone. Possible examples of such techniques are the use of accurate records from closely spaced drill holes or
from closely spaced, high-resolution offshore geophysical surveys.
In delineating the zone requiring detailed faulting investigation for a fault, the center of the zone shall coincide with the center of the fault at the point of nearest approach of the fault to the nuclear power plant as illustrated in figure 1.
(c)
Determination of Design Bases for Seismically Induced Floods and Water Waves.
The size of seismically induced floods and water waves which could affect a site from either locally or distantly generated seismic activity shall be determined, taking into consideration the results of the investigation required by paragraph (c) of section IV. Local topographic characteristics which might tend to modify the possible runup and drawdown at the site shall be considered. Adverse tide conditions shall also be taken into account in determining the effect of the floods and waves on the site. The characteristics of the earthquake to be used in evaluating the offshore effects of local earthquakes shall be determined by a procedure similar to that used to determine the characteristics of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake in paragraph V(a).
(d)
Determination of Other Design Conditions
—(1)
Soil Stability.
Vibratory ground motion associated with the Safe Shutdown Earthquake can cause soil instability due to ground disruption such as fissuring, differential consolidation, liquefaction, and cratering which is not directly related to surface faulting. The following geologic features which could affect the foundations of the proposed nuclear power plant structures shall be evaluated, taking into account the information concerning the physical properties of materials underlying the site developed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) of section IV and the effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake:
(i) Areas of actual or potential surface or subsurface subsidence, uplift, or collapse resulting from:
(
a
) Natural features such as tectonic depressions and cavernous or karst terrains, particularly those underlain by calcareous or other soluble deposits;
(
b
) Man's activities such as withdrawal of fluid from or addition of fluid to the subsurface, extraction of minerals, or the loading effects of dams or reservoirs; and
(
c
) Regional deformation.
(ii) Deformational zones such as shears, joints, fractures, folds, or combinations of these features.
(iii) Zones of alteration or irregular weathering profiles and zones of structural weakness composed of crushed or disturbed materials.
(iv) Unrelieved residual stresses in bedrock.
(v) Rocks or soils that might be unstable because of their mineralogy, lack of consolidation, water content, or potentially undesirable response to seismic or other events. Seismic response characteristics to be considered shall include liquefaction, thixotropy, differential consolidation, cratering, and fissuring.
(2)
Slope stability.
Stability of all slopes, both natural and artificial, the failure of which could adversely affect the nuclear power plant, shall be considered. An assessment shall be made of the potential effects of erosion or deposition and of combinations of erosion or deposition with seismic activity, taking into account information concerning the physical property of the materials underlying the site developed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1), (3), and (4) of section IV and the effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake.
(3)
Cooling water supply.
Assurance of adequate cooling water supply for emergency and long-term shutdown decay heat removal shall be considered in the design of the nuclear power plant, taking in to account information concerning the physical properties of the materials underlying the site developed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) of section IV and the effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake and the design basis for surface faulting. Consideration of river blockage or diversion or other failures which may block the flow of cooling water, coastal uplift or subsidence, or tsunami runup and drawdown, and failure of dams and intake structures shall be included in the evaluation, where appropriate.
(4)
Distant structures.
Those structures which are not located in the immediate vicinity of the site but which are safety related shall be designed to withstand the effect of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake and the design basis for surface faulting determined on a comparable basis to that of the nuclear power plant, taking into account the material underlying the structures and the different location with respect to that of the site.

# vi. application to engineering design
(a)
Vibratory ground motion
—(1)
Safe Shutdown Earthquake.
The vibratory ground motion produced by the Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall be defined by response spectra corresponding to the maximum vibratory accelerations at the elevations of the foundations of the nuclear power plant structures determine pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of section V. The response spectra shall relate the response of the foundations of the nuclear power plant structures to the vibratory ground motion, considering such foundations to be single-degree-of-freedom damped oscillators and neglecting soil-structure interaction effects. In view of the limited data available on vibratory ground motions of strong earthquakes, it usually will be appropriate that the response spectra be smoothed
design spectra developed from a series of response spectra related to the vibratory motions caused by more than one earthquake.
The nuclear power plant shall be designed so that, if the Safe Shutdown Earthquake occurs, certain structures, systems, and components will remain functional. These structures, systems, and components are those necessary to assure (i) the integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary, (ii) the capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe condition, or (iii) the capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents which could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to the guideline exposures of this part. In addition to seismic loads, including aftershocks, applicable concurrent functional and accident-induced loads shall be taken into account in the design of these safety-related structures, systems, and components. The design of the nuclear power plant shall also take into account the possible effects of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake on the facility foundations by ground disruption, such as fissuring, differential consolidation, cratering, liquefaction, and landsliding, as required in paragraph (d) of section V.
The engineering method used to insure that the required safety functions are maintained during and after the vibratory ground motion associated with the Safe Shutdown Earthquake shall involve the use of either a suitable dynamic analysis or a suitable qualification test to demonstrate that structures, systems and components can withstand the seismic and other concurrent loads, except where it can be demonstrated that the use of an equivalent static load method provides adequate conservatism.
The analysis or test shall take into account soil-structure interaction effects and the expected duration of vibratory motion. It is permissible to design for strain limits in excess of yield strain in some of these safety-related structures, systems, and components during the Safe Shutdown Earthquake and under the postulated concurrent conditions, provided that the necessary safety functions are maintained.
(2)
Operating Basis Earthquake.
The Operating Basis Earthquake shall be defined by response spectra. All structures, systems, and components of the nuclear power plant necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public shall be designed to remain functional and within applicable stress and deformation limits when subjected to the effects of the vibratory motion of the Operating Basis Earthquake in combination with normal operating loads. The engineering method used to insure that these structures, systems, and components are capable of withstanding the effects of the Operating Basis Earthquake shall involve the use of either a suitable dynamic analysis or a suitable qualification test to demonstrate that the structures, systems and components can withstand the seismic and other concurrent loads, except where it can be demonstrated that the use of an equivalent static load method provides adequate conservatism. The analysis or test shall take into account soil-structure interaction effects and the expected duration of vibratory motion.
(3)
Required Seismic instrumentation.
Suitable instrumentation shall be provided so that the seismic response of nuclear power plant features important to safety can be determined promptly to permit comparison of such response with that used as the design basis. Such a comparison is needed to decide whether the plant can continue to be operated safely and to permit such timely action as may be appropriate.
These criteria do not address the need for instrumentation that would automatically shut down a nuclear power plant when an earthquake occurs which exceeds a predetermined intensity. The need for such instrumentation is under consideration.
(b)
Surface Faulting.
(1) If the nuclear power plant is to be located within the zone requiring detailed faulting investigation, a detailed investigation of the regional and local geologic and seismic characteristics of the site shall be carried out to determine the need to take into account surface faulting in the design of the nuclear power plant. Where it is determined that surface faulting need not be taken into account, sufficient data to clearly justify the determination shall be presented in the license application.
(2) Where it is determined that surface faulting must be taken into account, the applicant shall, in establishing the design basis for surface faulting on a site take into account evidence concerning the regional and local geologic and seismic characteristics of the site and from any other relevant data.
(3) The design basis for surface faulting shall be taken into account in the design of the nuclear power plant by providing reasonable assurance that in the event of such displacement during faulting certain structures, systems, and components will remain functional. These structures, systems, and components are those necessary to assure (i) the integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary, (ii) the capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe shutdown condition, or (iii) the capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents which could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to the guideline exposures of this part. In addition to seismic loads, including aftershocks, applicable concurrent functional and accident-induced loads shall be taken into account in the design of such safety features. The design provisions shall be based on an assumption that the design basis for surface faulting can occur in any direction and azimuth and
under any part of the nuclear power plant unless evidence indicates this assumption is not appropriate, and shall take into account the estimated rate at which the surface faulting may occur.
(c)
Seismically Induced Floods and Water Waves and Other Design Conditions.
The design basis for seismically induced floods and water waves from either locally or distantly generated seismic activity and other design conditions determined pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of section V, shall be taken into account in the design of the nuclear power plant so as to prevent undue risk to the health and safety of the public.
EC22SE91.002
Figure 1—Diagrammatic Illustration of Delineation of Width of Zone Requiring Detailed Faulting Investigations For Specific Nuclear Power Plant Location.
(Sec. 201, Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1243 (42 U.S.C. 5841))
[38 FR 31281, Nov. 13, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 32575, Nov. 27, 1973; 42 FR 2052, Jan. 10, 1977; 78 FR 34250, June 7, 2013]
Pt. 110

# PART 110—EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
110.1
Purpose and scope.
110.2
Definitions.
110.3
Interpretations.
110.4
Communications.
110.5
Licensing requirements.
110.6
Retransfers.
110.7
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
110.7a
Completeness and accuracy of information.
110.7b
Deliberate misconduct.
110.8
List of nuclear facilities and equipment under NRC export licensing authority.
110.9
List of Nuclear Material under NRC export licensing authority.
110.9a
List of nuclear equipment and material under NRC import licensing authority.

# Subpart B—Exemptions
110.10
General.
110.11
Export of IAEA safeguards samples.

# Subpart C—Licenses
110.19
Types of licenses.
110.20
General license information.
110.21
General license for the export of special nuclear material.
110.22
General license for the export of source material.
110.23
General license for the export of byproduct material.
110.24
General license for the export of deuterium for nuclear end use.
110.25
[Reserved]
110.26
General license for the export of nuclear reactor components.
110.27
General license for imports.
110.28
Embargoed destinations.
110.29
Restricted destinations.
110.30
Members of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
110.31
Application for a specific license.
110.32
Information required in an application for a specific license/NRC Form 7.

# Subpart D—Review of License Applications
110.40
Commission review.
110.41
Executive Branch review.
110.42
Export licensing criteria.
110.43
Import licensing criteria.
110.44
Physical security standards.
110.45
Issuance or denial of licenses.
110.46
Conduct resulting in termination of nuclear exports.

# Subpart E—License Terms and Related Provisions
110.50
Terms.
110.51
Amendment and renewal of licenses.
110.52
Revocation, suspension, and modification.
110.53
United States address, records, and inspections.
110.54
Reporting requirements.

# Subpart F—Violations and Enforcement
110.60
Violations.
110.61
Notice of violation.
110.62
Order to show cause.
110.63
Order for revocation, suspension, or modification.
110.64
Civil penalty.
110.65
Settlement and compromise.
110.66
Enforcement hearing.
110.67
Criminal penalties.

# Subpart G—Public Notification and Availability of Documents and Records
110.70
Public notice of receipt of an application.
110.71
Notice of withdrawal of an application.
110.72
Public availability of documents.
110.73
Availability of NRC records.

# Subpart H—Public Participation Procedures Concerning License Applications
110.80
Basis for hearings.
110.81
Written comments.
110.82
Hearing request or intervention petition.
110.83
Answers and replies.
110.84
Commission action on a hearing request or intervention petition.
110.85
Notice of hearing consisting of written comments.
110.86
Notice of oral hearing.
110.87
Conditions in a notice or order.
110.88
Authority of the Secretary.
110.89
Filing and service.
110.90
Computation of time.
110.91
Commission consultations.

# Subpart I—Hearings
110.100
Public hearings.
110.101
Filing and service.
110.102
Hearing docket.
110.103
Acceptance of hearing documents.
110.104
Presiding officer.
110.105
Responsibility and power of the presiding officer in an oral hearing.
110.106
Participation in a hearing.
110.107
Presentation of testimony in an oral hearing.
110.108
Appearance in an oral hearing.
110.109
Motions and requests.
110.110
Default.
110.111
Waiver of a rule or regulation.
110.112
Reporter and transcript for an oral hearing.
110.113
Commission action.

# Subpart J—Special Procedures for Classified Information in Hearings
110.120
Purpose and scope.
110.121
Security clearances and access to classified information.
110.122
Classification assistance.
110.123
Notice of intent to introduce classified information.
110.124
Rearrangement or suspension of a hearing.
110.125
Unclassified statements required.
110.126
Protection of classified information.

# Subpart K—Rulemaking
110.130
Initiation of rulemaking.
110.131
Petition for rulemaking.
110.132
Commission action on a petition.
110.133
Notice of proposed rulemaking.
110.134
Public participation.
110.135
Notice of rulemaking.
Appendix A to Part 110—Illustrative List of Nuclear Reactor Equipment Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix B to Part 110—Illustrative List of Gas Centrifuge Enrichment Plant Components Under NRC's Export Licensing Authority
Appendix C to Part 110—Illustrative List of Gaseous Diffusion Enrichment Plant Assemblies and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix D to Part 110—Illustrative List of Aerodynamic Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix E to Part 110—Illustrative List of Chemical Exchange or Ion Exchange Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix F to Part 110—Illustrative List of Laser-Based Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix G to Part 110—Illustrative List of Plasma Separation Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix H to Part 110—Illustrative List of Electromagnetic Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix I to Part 110—Illustrative List of Reprocessing Plant Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix J to Part 110—Illustrative List of Uranium Conversion Plant Equipment and Plutonium Conversion Plant Equipment Under NRC Export Licensing Authority
Appendix K to Part 110—Illustrative List of Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority for Use in a Plant for the Production of Heavy Water, Deuterium and Deuterium Compounds
Appendix L to Part 110—Illustrative List of Byproduct Materials Under NRC Export/Import Licensing Authority
Appendix M to Part 110—Categorization of Nuclear Material
Appendix N to Part 110—Illustrative List of Lithium Isotope Separation Facilities, Plants and Equipment Under NRC's Export Licensing Authority
Appendix O to Part 110—Illustrative List of Fuel Element Fabrication Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC's Export Licensing Authority
Appendix P to Part 110—Category 1 and 2 Radioactive Material

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 11, 51, 53, 54, 57, 62, 63, 64, 65, 81, 82, 103, 104, 109, 111, 121, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129, 133, 134, 161, 170H, 181, 182, 183, 184, 186, 187, 189, 223, 234 (42 U.S.C. 2014, 2071, 2073, 2074, 2077, 2092, 2093, 2094, 2095, 2111, 2112, 2133, 2134, 2139, 2141, 2151, 2152, 2153, 2154, 2155, 2156, 2157, 2158, 2160c, 2160d, 2201, 2210h, 2231, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236, 2237, 2239, 2273, 2282); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 552, 553); 42 U.S.C. 2139a, 2155a; 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 110.1(b) also issued under 22 U.S.C. 2403; 22 U.S.C. 2778a; 50 App. U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
43 FR 21641, May 19, 1978, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 110.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part prescribe licensing, enforcement, and rulemaking procedures and criteria, under the Atomic Energy Act, for the export of nuclear equipment and material, as set out in §§ 110.8 and 110.9, and the import of nuclear equipment and material, as set out in § 110.9a. This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 110.7b.
(b) The regulations in this part apply to all persons in the United States except:
(1) Persons who import or export U.S. Munitions List nuclear items such as uranium depleted in the isotope-235 and incorporated in defense articles. These persons are subject to the regulations promulgated pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act and administered by the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, and the Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, as authorized by section 110 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980.
(2) Persons who export uranium depleted in the isotope-235 and incorporated in commodities solely to take advantage of high density or pyrophoric characteristics. These persons are subject to the controls of the Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Act, as continued in force under Executive Order 13222 (August 22, 2001), as extended;
(3) Persons who export nuclear referral list commodities such as bulk zirconium, rotor and bellows equipment, maraging steel, nuclear reactor related equipment, including process control systems and simulators. These persons are subject to the licensing authority of the Department of Commerce pursuant to 15 CFR part 730
et seq.;
(4) Persons who import deuterium, nuclear grade graphite, or nuclear equipment other than production or utilization facilities. A uranium enrichment facility is not a production facility for the purposes of import; and
(5) Shipments which are only passing through the U.S. (in bond shipments) do not require an NRC import or export license; however, they must comply with the Department of Transportation/IAEA packaging, and State transportation requirements.
[49 FR 47197, Dec. 3, 1984; 49 FR 49841, Dec. 24, 1984, as amended at 55 FR 34519, Aug. 23, 1990; 56 FR 40692, Aug. 15, 1991; 58 FR 13001, Mar. 9, 1993; 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 63 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1998; 65 FR 70289, Nov. 22, 2000; 75 FR 44085, July 28, 2010]
§ 110.2
Definitions.
As used in this part,
Accelerator-produced radioactive material
means any material made radioactive by a particle accelerator.
Agreement for cooperation
means any agreement with another nation or group of nations concluded under section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act.
Atomic Energy Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
).
Bulk material
means any quantity of any one or more of the radionuclides listed in Table 1 of Appendix P to this part in a form that is:
(1) Not a Category 1 radioactive source;
(2) Not a Category 2 radioactive source;
(3) Not plutonium-238; and
(4) Deemed to pose a risk similar to or greater than a Category 2 radioactive source.
Byproduct material
means
(1) Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in, or made radioactive by, exposure to the radiation incident to the process of producing or utilizing special nuclear material;
(2) The tailings or wastes produced by the extraction or concentration of uranium or thorium from ore (see 10 CFR 20.1003);
(3)(i) Any discrete source of radium-226 that is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; or
(ii) Any material that has been made radioactive by use of a particle accelerator and is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005 for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; and
(4) Any discrete source of naturally occurring radioactive material, other than source material, that—
(i) The Commission, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of any other appropriate Federal agency, determines would pose a threat similar to the threat posed by a discrete source of radium-226 to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; and
(ii) Before, on, or after August 8, 2005 is extracted or converted after extraction for use in a commercial, medical, or research activity.
Classified Information
means Classified National Security Information under Executive Order 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor Executive Order and Restricted Data under the Atomic Energy Act.
Commission
means the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Common defense and security
means the common defense and security of the United States.
Conversion facility
means any facility for the transformation from one uranium chemical species to another, including conversion of uranium ore concentrates to uranium trioxide (UO3), conversion of UO3 to uranium dioxide (UO2), conversion of uranium oxides to uranium tetrafluoride (UF4) or uranium hexafluoride (UF6), conversion of UF4 to UF6, conversion of UF6 to UF4, conversion of UF4 to uranium metal, and conversion of uranium fluorides to UO2.
Depleted uranium
means uranium having a percentage of uranium-235 less than the naturally occurring distribution of uranium-235 found in natural uranium (less than 0.711 weight percent uranium-235). It is obtained from spent (used) fuel elements or as byproduct tails or residues from uranium isotope separation.
Deuterium
means deuterium and any deuterium compound, including heavy water, in which the ratio of deuterium atoms to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000; and
deuterium for nuclear end use
means deuterium and any deuterium compound, including heavy water, in which the ratio of deuterium atoms to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000, that is intended for use in a nuclear reactor. Export of deuterium and deuterium compounds, including heavy water, for non-nuclear end use is regulated by the Department of Commerce.
Discrete source
means a radionuclide that has been processed so that its concentration within a material has been purposely increased for use for commercial, medical, or research activities.
Disposal
means permanent isolation of radioactive material from the surrounding environment.
Dual-use
means equipment and materials that may be used in nuclear or non-nuclear applications.
Effective kilograms of special nuclear material
means:
(1) For plutonium and uranium-233, their weight in kilograms;
(2) For uranium enriched 1 percent or greater in the isotope uranium-235, its element weight in kilograms multiplied by the square of its enrichment expressed as a decimal weight fraction; and
(3) For uranium enriched below 1 percent in the isotope uranium-235, its element weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.0001.
Embargoed
means that no nuclear material or equipment can be exported to certain countries under an NRC general license. Exports to embargoed countries must be pursuant to a specific license issued by the NRC and require Executive Branch review pursuant to § 110.41.
Exceptional circumstances
means, with respect to exports from the United States of radioactive material listed in Table 1 of Appendix P of this part:
(1) Cases of considerable health or medical need as acknowledged by the U.S. Government and the government of the importing country;
(2) Cases where there is an imminent radiological hazard or security threat presented by one or more radioactive sources; and
(3) Cases in which the exporting facility or U.S. Government maintains control of the radioactive material throughout the period the material is outside of the U.S. and removes the material at the conclusion of this period.
Executive Branch
means the Departments of State, Energy, Defense and Commerce.
Export
means to physically transfer nuclear equipment or material to a person or an international organization in a foreign country, except DOE distributions as authorized in Section 111 of the Atomic Energy Act or Section 110 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980.
General license
means an export or import license effective without the filing of a specific application with the Commission or the issuance of licensing documents to a particular person. A general license is a type of license issued through rulemaking by the NRC and is not an exemption from the requirements in this part. A general license does not relieve a person from complying with other applicable NRC, Federal, and State requirements.
Heels
means small quantities of natural, depleted or low-enriched uranium (to a maximum of 20 percent), in the form of uranium hexafluoride (UF6) left in emptied transport cylinders being returned to suppliers after delivery of the product.
High-enriched uranium
means uranium enriched to 20 percent or greater in the isotope uranium-235.
IAEA
means the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Import
means import into the United States.
Individual shipment
means a shipment consisting of one lot of freight tendered to a carrier by one consignor at one place at one time for delivery to one consignee on one bill of lading. This lot may consist of:
(1) Only one item or
(2) A number of containers all listed on the same set of shipping documents. This one lot of freight or “distinct” shipment can be transported on the same carrier with other distinct shipments containing the same items as long as each shipment is covered by separate sets of shipping documents.
The phrase
introduced into a hearing
means the introduction or incorporation of testimony or documentary matter into the record of a hearing.
License
means a general or specific export or import license issued pursuant to this part.
Licensee
means a person authorized by a specific or a general license to export or import nuclear equipment or material pursuant to this part.
Low-enriched uranium
means uranium enriched below 20 percent in the isotope uranium-235.
Low-level waste compact,
as used in this part, means a compact entered into by two or more States pursuant to the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985.
Management
means storage, packaging, or treatment of radioactive waste.
Medical isotope,
for the purposes of § 110.42(a)(9), includes molybdenum-99, iodine-131, xenon-133, and other radioactive materials used to produce a radiopharmaceutical for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures or for research and development.
Natural uranium
means uranium as found in nature, containing about 0.711 percent of uranium-235, 99.283 percent of uranium-238, and a trace (0.006 percent) of uranium-234.
NPT
means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (TIAS 6839).
Non-nuclear weapon State
means any State not a nuclear weapon State as defined in the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Nuclear weapon state
means any State which has manufactured and exploded a nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive device prior to January 1, 1967 (China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States).
Non-Proliferation Act
means the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-242).
NRC Public Document Room
means the facility at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland, where certain public records of the NRC that were made available for public inspection in paper or microfiche prior to the implementation of the NRC Agencywide Documents Access and Management System, commonly referred to as ADAMS, will remain available for public inspection. It is also the place where NRC makes computer terminals available to access the Publicly Available Records System (PARS) component of ADAMS on the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov,
and where copies can be viewed or ordered for a fee as set forth in § 9.35 of this chapter. The facility is staffed with reference librarians to assist the public in identifying and locating documents and in using the NRC Website and ADAMS. The NRC Public Document Room is open from 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., Monday through Friday, except on Federal holidays. Reference service and access to documents may also be requested by telephone (301-415-4737 or 800-397-4209) between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., or by e-mail (
PDR.Resource@nrc.gov
), facsimile (301-415-3548), or letter (NRC Public Document Room, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738).
NRC records
means any documentary material made by, in the possession of, or under the control of the Commission under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business as evidence of any of the Commission's activities.
NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov,
is the Internet uniform resource locator name for the Internet address of the Web site where NRC will ordinarily make available its public records for inspection.
Nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use
means graphite having a purity level better than (
i.e.
, less than) 5 parts per million boron equivalent, as measured according to ASTM standard C1233-98 and intended for use in a nuclear reactor. (Nuclear grade graphite for non-nuclear end use is regulated by the Department of Commerce.)
Nuclear reactor
means an apparatus, other than an atomic weapon or nuclear explosive device, designed or used to sustain nuclear fission in a self-supporting chain reaction.
Nuclear reactor internals
means the major structures within a reactor vessel that have one or more functions such as supporting the core, maintaining fuel alignment, directing primary coolant flow, providing radiation shields for the reactor vessel, and guiding in-core instrumentation.
Nuclear Referral List
(NRL) means the nuclear-related, dual-use commodities on the Commerce Control List that are subject to the nuclear non-proliferation export licensing controls of the Department of Commerce. They are contained in 15 CFR part 774 of the Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations and are designated by the symbol (NP) as the reason for control.
Nuclear Suppliers Group
(NSG) is a group of nuclear supplier countries which seeks to contribute to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons through the implementation of Guidelines for nuclear exports and nuclear-related exports.
Obligations
means the commitments undertaken by the U.S. Government or by foreign governments or groups of nations with respect to imports or exports of nuclear material (except byproduct material) and equipment listed in §§ 110.8 and 110.9. Imports and exports of material or equipment subject to these commitments involve conditions placed on the transfer of the material or equipment, such as peaceful end-use assurances, prior consent for retransfer, and exchanges of information
on the import or export. The U.S. Government informs the licensee of obligations attached to material or equipment being imported into the United States and approves changes to those obligations.
Packaging
means one or more receptacles and wrappers and their contents, excluding any special nuclear material, source material or byproduct material, but including absorbent material, spacing structures, thermal insulation, radiation shielding, devices for cooling and for absorbing mechanical shock, external fittings, neutron moderators, nonfissile neutron absorbers and other supplementary equipment.
Participant
means a person, identified in a hearing notice or other Commission order, who takes part in a hearing conducted by the Commission under this part, including any person to whom the Commission grants a hearing or leave to intervene in an export or import licensing hearing, either as a matter of right or as a matter of discretion.
Particle accelerator
means any machine capable of accelerating electrons, protons, deuterons, or other charged particles in a vacuum and of discharging the resultant particulate or other radiation into a medium at energies usually in excess of 1 megaelectron volt. For purposes of this definition, “accelerator” is an equivalent term.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency, other than the Commission or the Department of Energy, except that the Department of Energy shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 111 of the Atomic Energy Act; any State or political subdivision of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Physical security
or
Physical protection
means measures to reasonably ensure that source or special nuclear material will only be used for authorized purposes and to prevent theft or sabotage.
Production facility
means any nuclear reactor or plant specially designed or used to produce special nuclear material through the irradiation of source material or special nuclear material, the chemical reprocessing of irradiated source or special nuclear material, or the separation of isotopes, other than a uranium enrichment facility for purposes of import.
Public health and safety
means the public health and safety of the United States.
Radioactive material
means source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
Radioactive waste,
for the purposes of this part, means any material that contains or is contaminated with source, byproduct, or special nuclear material that by its possession would require a specific radioactive material license in accordance with this Chapter and is imported or exported for the purposes of disposal in a land disposal facility as defined in 10 CFR part 61, a disposal area as defined in Appendix A to 10 CFR part 40, or an equivalent facility; or recycling, waste treatment or other waste management process that generates radioactive material for disposal in a land disposal facility as defined in 10 CFR part 61, a disposal area as defined in Appendix A to 10 CFR part 40, or an equivalent facility. Radioactive waste does not include radioactive material that is—
(1) Of U.S. origin and contained in a sealed source, or device containing a sealed source, that is being returned to a manufacturer, distributor or other entity which is authorized to receive and possess the sealed source or the device containing a sealed source;
(2) A contaminant on any non-radioactive material (including service tools and protective clothing) used in a nuclear facility (an NRC- or Agreement State-licensed facility (or equivalent facility) or activity authorized to possess or use radioactive material), if the material is being shipped solely for recovery and beneficial reuse of the non-
radioactive material in a nuclear facility and not for waste management purposes or disposal;
(3) Exempted from regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or equivalent Agreement State regulations;
(4) Generated or used in a U.S. Government waste research and development testing program under international arrangements;
(5) Being returned by or for the U.S. Government or military to a facility that is authorized to possess the material; or
(6) Imported solely for the purposes of recycling and not for waste management or disposal where there is a market for the recycled material and evidence of a contract or business agreement can be produced upon request by the NRC.

# Note:
The definition of
radioactive waste
in this part does not include spent or irradiated fuel.
Radiopharmaceutical,
for the purposes of § 110.42(a)(9), means a radioactive isotope that contains byproduct material combined with chemical or biological material and is designed to accumulate temporarily in a part of the body for therapeutic purposes or for enabling the production of a useful image for use in a diagnosis of a medical condition.
Recipient country,
for the purposes of § 110.42(a)(9), means Canada, Belgium, France, Germany, and the Netherlands.
Restricted destinations
means countries that are listed in § 110.29 based on recommendations from the Executive Branch. These countries may receive exports of certain materials and quantities under a general license, but some exports to restricted destinations will require issuance of a specific license by the NRC including Executive Branch review pursuant to § 110.41.
Retransfer
means the transport from one foreign country to another of nuclear equipment or nuclear material previously exported from the United States, or of special nuclear material produced through the use of source material or special nuclear material previously exported from the United States.
Sealed source
means any special nuclear material or byproduct material encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of that nuclear material.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Commission.
Source material
means:
(1) Natural or depleted uranium, or thorium, other than special nuclear material; or
(2) Ores that contain by weight 0.05 percent or more of uranium, thorium or depleted uranium.
Special nuclear material
means plutonium, uranium-233, or uranium enriched above 0.711 percent by weight in the isotope uranium-235.
Specific activity
means the radioactivity of a radionuclide per unit mass of that nuclide, expressed in the SI unit of terabecquerels per gram (TBq/g). Values of specific activity are found in Appendix A to part 71 of this chapter.
Specific license
means an export or import license document issued to a named person and authorizing the export or import of specified nuclear equipment or materials based upon the review and approval of an NRC Form 7 application filed pursuant to this part and other related submittals in support of the application.
Storage
means the temporary holding of radioactive material.
Target
means material subjected to irradiation in an accelerator or nuclear reactor to induce a reaction or produce nuclear material.
Transfer
means the transfer of possession from one person to another person.
Transport
means the physical movement of material from one location to another.
Treatment
means any method, technique, or process, including storage for radioactive decay, designed to change the physical, chemical or biological characteristics or composition of any radioactive material.
Tritium
means not only tritium but also includes compounds and mixtures containing tritium in which the ratio of tritium to hydrogen by atoms exceeds one part in 1,000.
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes Puerto Rico and all territories and possessions ofthe United States.
Uranium enrichment facility
means:
(1) Any facility used for separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235, except laboratory scale facilities designed or used for experimental or analytical purposes only; or
(2) Any equipment or device, or important component part especially designed for such equipment or device, capable of separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235.
Utilization facility
means:
(1) Any nuclear reactor, other than one that is a production facility and
(2) Any of the following major components of a nuclear reactor:
(i) Reactor pressure vessel (designed to contain the core of a nuclear reactor);
(ii) Reactor primary coolant pump or circulator;
(iii) “On-line” reactor fuel charging and discharging machine; and
(iv) Complete reactor control rod system.
(3) A utilization facility does not include the steam turbine generator portion of a nuclear power plant.
[43 FR 21691, May 19, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 110.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 110.3
Interpretations.
Except as authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part other than a written interpretation by the Commission's General Counsel is binding upon the Commission.
§ 110.4
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified in this part, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part should be addressed to the Deputy Director of the NRC's Office of International Programs, either by telephone to 301-287-9057; by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[68 FR 58824, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74982, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 58466, Nov. 20, 2018]
§ 110.5
Licensing requirements.
Except as provided under subpart B of this part, no person may export any nuclear equipment or material listed in § 110.8 and § 110.9, or import any nuclear equipment or material listed in § 110.9a, unless authorized by a general or specific license issued under this part.
[56 FR 24684, May 31, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 13002, Mar. 9, 1993]
§ 110.6
Retransfers.
(a) Retransfer of any nuclear equipment or material listed in §§ 110.8 and 110.9 (except byproduct material), including special nuclear material produced through the use of equipment, source material, or special nuclear material bearing obligations to the United States pursuant to an agreement for cooperation, requires authorization by the Department of Energy, unless the export to the new destination is authorized by the NRC under a specific or general license or an exemption from licensing requirements. See definition of “obligations” in § 110.2.
(b) Requests for authority to retransfer are processed by the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control, Washington, DC 20585.
[75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010, as amended at 83 FR 58466, Nov. 20, 2018]
§ 110.7
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control numbers 3150-0036.
(b) The approved information requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 110.7a, 110.10, 110.27, 110.32, 110.50, 110.52, 110.53, and 110.54.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The information collection requirements contained in §§ 110.19, 110.20, 110.21, 110.22, 110.23, 110.31, 110.32, and 110.51, and NRC Form 7 are approved under control number 3150-0027.
[62 FR 52190, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 70290, Nov. 22, 2000; 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002; 71 FR 19104, Apr. 13, 2006; 75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010; 76 FR 72087, Nov. 22, 2011; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 110.7a
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission by an applicant for a license or by a licensee or information required by statute or by the Commission's regulations, orders, or license conditions to be maintained by the applicant or the licensee shall be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) Each licensee or applicant for a license shall notify the Commission of information identified by the applicant or licensee as having, for the regulated activity, a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. An applicant or licensee violates this paragraph if the applicant or licensee fails to notify the Commission of information that the applicant or licensee has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification shall be provided to the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office within two working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information which is already required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
[52 FR 49374, Dec. 31, 1987, as amended at 75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010]
§ 110.7b
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) Any licensee, applicant for a license, employee of a licensee or applicant; or any contractor (including a supplier or consultant), subcontractor, employee of a contractor or subcontractor of any licensee or applicant for a license, who knowingly provides to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor, any components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities in this part, may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or would have caused, if not detected, a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to the NRC, a licensee, an applicant, or a licensee's or applicant's contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to the NRC.
(b) A person who violates paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation, of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order, or policy of a licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor.
[63 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1998]
§ 110.8
List of nuclear facilities and equipment under NRC export licensing authority.
(a) Nuclear reactors and especially designed or prepared equipment and components for nuclear reactors. (See Appendix A to this part.)
(b) Plants for the separation of isotopes of uranium (source material or special nuclear material) including gas centrifuge plants, gaseous diffusion plants, aerodynamic enrichment plants, chemical exchange or ion exchange enrichment plants, laser based enrichment plants, plasma separation enrichment plants, electromagnetic enrichment plants, and especially designed or prepared equipment, other than analytical instruments, for the separation of isotopes of uranium. (See appendices to this part for lists of: gas centrifuge equipment—Appendix B; gaseous diffusion equipment—Appendix C; aerodynamic enrichment equipment—Appendix D; chemical exchange or ion exchange enrichment equipment—Appendix E; laser based enrichment equipment—Appendix F; plasma separation enrichment equipment—Appendix G; and electromagnetic enrichment equipment—Appendix H.)
(c) Plants for the separation of the isotopes of lithium and especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for these plants. (See Appendix N to this part.)
(d) Plants for the reprocessing of irradiated nuclear reactor fuel elements and especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for these plants. (See Appendix I to this part.)
(e) Plants for the fabrication of nuclear reactor fuel elements and especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for these plants. (See Appendix O to this part.)
(f) Plants for the conversion of uranium and plutonium and especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for these plants. (See Appendix J to this part.)
(g) Plants for the production, separation, or purification of heavy water, deuterium, and deuterium compounds and especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for these plants. (See Appendix K to this part.)
(h) Plants for the production of special nuclear material using accelerator-driven subcritical assembly systems capable of continuous operation above 5 MW thermal.
(i) Other nuclear-related commodities are under the export licensing authority of the Department of Commerce.
[61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 70290, Nov. 22, 2000; 86 FR 43404, Aug. 9, 2021]
§ 110.9
List of Nuclear Material under NRC export licensing authority.
(a) Special Nuclear Material.
(b) Source Material.
(c) Byproduct Material.
(d) Deuterium for nuclear end use.
(e) Nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use.
[55 FR 30450, July 26, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 41939, July 21, 2005; 86 FR 55479, Oct. 6, 2021]
§ 110.9a
List of nuclear equipment and material under NRC import licensing authority.
(a) Production and utilization facilities.
(b) Special nuclear material.
(c) Source material.
(d) Byproduct material.
[49 FR 47198, Dec. 3, 1984. Redesignated at 55 FR 30450, July 26, 1990, and amended at 57 FR 18393, Apr. 30, 1992; 58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993]

# Subpart B—Exemptions
§ 110.10
General.
(a) In response to a request or on its own initiative, the Commission may grant an exemption from the regulations in this part, if it determines that the exemption:
(1) Is authorized by law;
(2) Is not inimical to the common defense and security; and
(3) Does not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety.
(b) An exemption from statutory licensing requirements, as authorized by sections 57d, 62, and 81 of the Atomic Energy Act, will be granted only after coordination with the Executive Branch.
(c) The granting of an exemption does not relieve any person from complying with the regulations of other U.S. Federal and/or State government agencies applicable to exports or imports under their authority.
[49 FR 47198, Dec. 3, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993; 65 FR 70290, Nov. 22, 2000; 75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010]
§ 110.11
Export of IAEA safeguards samples.
(a) A person is exempt from the requirements for a license to export special nuclear, source, and byproduct material set forth in sections 53, 54d, 64, 81 and 82 of the Atomic Energy Act and from the regulations in this part to the extent that the person exports special nuclear, source, or byproduct material in IAEA safeguards samples. The samples must be exported in accordance with § 75.8 of this chapter, or a comparable U.S. Department of Energy order, and:
(1) For special nuclear material, be in quantities not exceeding a combined total of 100 grams of contained plutonium, uranium-233, and uranium-235 per facility per year;
(2) For source material, be in quantities not exceeding 5 kilograms per facility per year; and
(3) For byproduct material, be in quantities not exceeding the values in § 30.71 of this chapter per shipment.
(b) This exemption does not relieve any person from complying with parts 71 or 73 of this chapter or any Commission order under section 201(a) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841(a)).
[77 FR 27114, May 9, 2012]

# Subpart C—Licenses

# Source:
49 FR 47198, Dec. 3, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 110.19
Types of licenses.
Licenses for the export and import of nuclear equipment and material in this part consist of general licenses and specific licenses. A general license is effective without the filing of an application with the Commission or the issuance of licensing documents to a particular person. A specific license is issued to a named person and is effective upon approval by the Commission of an application filed pursuant to the regulations in this part and issuance of licensing documents to the applicant.
[75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010]
§ 110.20
General license information.
(a) A person may use an NRC general license as authority to export or import nuclear equipment or material, if the nuclear equipment or material to be exported or imported is covered by the NRC general licenses described in §§ 110.21 through 110.27. If an export or import is not covered by the NRC general licenses described in §§ 110.21 through 110.27, a person must file an application with the Commission for a specific license in accordance with §§ 110.31 through 110.32.
(b) In response to a petition or on its own initiative, the Commission may issue a general license for export or import if it determines that any exports or imports made under the general license will not be inimical to the common defense and security or constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety and otherwise meet applicable statutory requirements. A general license is issued as a regulation after a rulemaking proceeding under subpart K of this part. Issuance of a general license is coordinated with the Executive Branch.
(c) A general license does not relieve a person from complying with the regulations of other Government agencies applicable to exports or imports under their authority.
(d) A general license for export may not be used if the exporter knows, or has reason to believe, that the material
will be used in any illegal activity or any activity related to isotope separation, chemical reprocessing, heavy water production or the fabrication of nuclear fuel containing plutonium, unless these activities are generically authorized under an appropriate agreement for cooperation.
(e) A person who uses an NRC general license as the authority to export or import may cite on the shipping documents the section of this part which authorizes the described export or import under general license, as a means of expediting U.S. Customs and Border Protection's processing of the shipment.
(f) As specified in §§ 110.21 through 110.26, 110.28, 110.29, and 110.30 only certain countries are eligible recipients of equipment or material under NRC general licenses to export. The Commission will closely monitor these countries and may at any time remove a country from a general license in response to significant adverse developments in the country involved. A key factor in this regard is the nonproliferation credentials of the importing country.
[49 FR 47198, Dec. 3, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993; 59 FR 48997, Sept. 26, 1994; 60 FR 37563, July 21, 1995; 75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010; 86 FR 43404, Aug. 9, 2021]
§ 110.21
General license for the export of special nuclear material.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28:
(1) Low-enriched uranium as residual contamination (17.5 parts per million or less) in any item or substance.
(2) Plutonium containing 80 percent or more by weight of plutonium-238 in cardiac pacemakers.
(3) Special nuclear material, other than plutonium-236 and plutonium-238, in sensing components in instruments, if no more than 3 grams of enriched uranium or 0.1 gram of plutonium or uranium-233 are contained in each sensing component.
(4) Plutonium-236 and plutonium-238 when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities of less than 3.7 × 10
−3
TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity (189 micrograms plutonium-236, 5.88 milligrams plutonium-238) per device or source.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29:
(1) Special nuclear material, other than plutonium-236 and plutonium-238, in individual shipments of 0.001 effective kilogram or less (e.g., 1.0 gram of plutonium, uranium-233 or uranium-235, or 10 kilograms of 1 percent enriched uranium), not to exceed 0.1 effective kilogram per calendar year to any one country.
(2) Special nuclear material in fuel elements as replacements for damaged or defective unirradiated fuel elements previously exported under a specific license, subject to the same terms as the original export license and the condition that the replaced fuel elements must be returned to the United States within a reasonable time period.
(3) Uranium, enriched to less than 20 percent in uranium-235, in the form of uranium hexafluoride (UF6) heels in cylinders being returned to suppliers in EURATOM or the United Kingdom.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export plutonium-236 or plutonium-238 to any country listed in § 110.30 in individual shipments of 1 gram or less, not to exceed 100 grams per calendar year to any one country.
(d) The general licenses in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section do not authorize the export of special nuclear material in radioactive waste.
[49 FR 47198, Dec. 3, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993; 59 FR 48997, Sept. 26, 1994; 60 FR 37563, July 21, 1995; 65 FR 70290, Nov. 22, 2000; 70 FR 46066, Aug. 9, 2005; 75 FR 44087, July 28, 2010; 85 FR 86795, Dec. 31, 2020]
§ 110.22
General license for the export of source material.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28:
(1) Uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, and thorium-228, in any substance
in concentrations of less than 0.05 percent by weight.
(2) Thorium, other than thorium-227 and thorium-228, in incandescent gas mantles or in alloys in concentrations of 5 percent or less.
(3) Thorium-227, thorium-228, uranium-230, and uranium-232 when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities of less than 3.7 × 10
−3
TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity (3.12 micrograms thorium-227, 122 micrograms thorium-228, 3.7 micrograms uranium-230, 4.7 milligrams uranium-232) per device or source.
(4) A general license is issued to any person to export uranium, enriched to less than 20 percent in U-235, in the form of UF6 heels in cylinders being returned to suppliers in EURATOM or the United Kingdom.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228, in individual shipments of 10 kilograms or less to any country not listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29, not to exceed 1,000 kilograms per calendar year to any one country or 500 kilograms per calendar year to any one country when the uranium or thorium is Canadian-obligated.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228, in individual shipments of 1 kilogram or less to any country listed in § 110.29, not to exceed 100 kilograms per calendar year to any one country.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228 in individual shipments of 10 kilograms or less to any country listed in § 110.30, not to exceed 1,000 kilograms per calendar year to any one country or 500 kilograms per calendar year to any one country when the uranium or thorium is Canadian-obligated.
(e) Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section do not authorize the export under general license of source material in radioactive waste.
[75 FR 44088, July 28, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 27114, May 9, 2012; 87 FR 68032, Nov. 14, 2022]
§ 110.23
General license for the export of byproduct material.
(a) A general license is issued to any person to export byproduct material (see Appendix L to this part) to any country not listed in § 110.28 and subject to the following limitations:
(1) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of byproduct material in the form of radioactive waste.
(2) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of the following radionuclides:
Americium-242m
Californium-249
Californium-251
Curium-245
Curium-247
(3) For byproduct materials listed in Table 1 of Appendix P to this part, individual shipments under a general license for export must be less than the terabecquerel (TBq) values specified in Category 2 of Table 1 unless a more restrictive requirement applies.
(4) The general license authorizes exports of the following radionuclides when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities less than 3.7 × 10
−3
TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity per device or source, unless the export is to a country listed in § 110.30:
Actinium-225
Actinium-227
Californium-248
Californium-250
Californium-252
Californium-253
Californium-254
Curium-240
Curium-241
Curium-242
Curium-243
Curium-244
Einsteinium-252
Einsteinium-253
Einsteinium-254
Einsteinium-255
Fermium-257
Gadolinium-148
Mendelevium-258
Neptunium-235
Polonium-208
Polonium-209
Polonium-210
Radium-223
(5)(i) For americium-241, exports under the general license to a country listed in § 110.29 must not exceed 3.7 × 10
−2
TBq (one curie) per shipment.
(ii) For americium-241, exports under the general license to a country listed in § 110.29 that exceed 3.7 × 10
−2
TBq (one curie) per shipment, must be contained in industrial process control equipment or petroleum exploration equipment in quantities not exceeding 0.60 TBq (16 curies) per device and not exceeding 7.4 TBq/calendar year (200 curies/calendar year) to any one country.
(iii) All exports of americium are subject to the reporting requirements listed in § 110.54(b).
(6) For neptunium-235 and -237, exports under the general license must not exceed one gram for individual shipment and must not exceed a cumulative total of 10 grams per calendar year to any one country. All exports of neptunium are subject to the reporting requirements listed in § 110.54(b).
(7) For polonium-210, exports under the general license, when contained in static eliminators, must not exceed 3.7 TBq (100 curies) per individual shipment.
(8)(i) For tritium in any dispersed form (e.g., luminescent light sources and paint, accelerator targets, calibration standards, labeled compounds), exports under the general license must not exceed 0.37 TBq (10 curies (1.03 milligrams)) per item, not to exceed 37 TBq (1,000 curies (103 milligrams)) per shipment, or 370 TBq (10,000 curies (1.03 grams)) per calendar year to any one country.
(ii) For tritium in any dispersed form (e.g., luminescent light sources and paint, accelerator targets, calibration standards, labeled compounds), exports under the general license to the countries listed in § 110.30 must not exceed the quantity of 1.48 TBq (40 curies (4.12 milligrams)) per item, not to exceed 37 TBq (1,000 curies (103 milligrams)) per shipment or 370 TBq (10,000 curies (1.03 grams)) per calendar year to any one country.
(iii) For tritium in luminescent safety devices installed in an aircraft, exports under the general license must not exceed 1.48 TBq (40 curies (4.12 milligrams)) per light source.
(iv) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of tritium for recovery or recycle purposes.
(b) [Reserved]
[75 FR 44088, July 28, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 52826, Nov. 15, 2017]
§ 110.24
General license for the export of deuterium for nuclear end use.
(a) A general license is issued to any person to export to any country not listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29:
(1) Deuterium and deuterium compounds (other than heavy water) for nuclear end use in individual shipments of 10 kilograms or less, not to exceed 200 kilograms per calendar year to any one country; and
(2) Heavy water for nuclear end use in individual shipments of 50 kilograms or less, not to exceed 1,000 kilograms per calendar year to any one country.
(b) A general license is issued to any person to export to any country listed in § 110.29:
(1) Deuterium and deuterium compounds (other than heavy water) for nuclear end use in individual shipments of 1 kilogram or less, not to exceed 5 kilograms per calendar year to any one country listed in § 110.29; and
(2) Heavy water for nuclear end use in individual shipment of 5 kilograms or less, not to exceed 25 kilograms per calendar year to any one country listed in § 110.29.
[86 FR 55479, Oct. 6, 2021]
§ 110.25
[Reserved]
§ 110.26
General license for the export of nuclear reactor components.
(a) A general license is issued to any person to export to a destination listed in paragraph (b) of this section any nuclear reactor component of U.S. origin described in paragraphs (5) through (11) of appendix A to this part if—
(1) The component will be used in a light or heavy water-moderated power or research reactor; or
(2) The component is in semifabricated form and will be undergoing final fabrication or repair in those countries for either subsequent return
to the United States for use in a nuclear power or research reactor in the United States or in one of the destinations listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The export of nuclear reactor components under the general license established in paragraph (a) of this section is approved to the following destinations:
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Netherlands
New Zealand
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Romania
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
United Kingdom
(c) This general license does not authorize the export of components, in final or semi-fabricated form, for research reactors capable of continuous operation above 5 MW thermal.
(d) This general license does not authorize the export of essentially complete reactors through piecemeal exports of facility components. When individual exports of components would amount in the aggregate to export of an essentially complete nuclear reactor, a facility export license is required.
(e) All exports under paragraph (a) of this section are subject to the reporting requirements in § 110.54(c).

# Note to § 110.26:
U.S. Origin includes components produced or finished in the United States, even with non-U.S. content unless the foreign content is obligated by supplier government conditions, such as a prior consent for retransfer condition.
[75 FR 44089, July 28, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 39291, July 10, 2014]
§ 110.27
General license for imports.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to import byproduct, source, or special nuclear material if the U.S. consignee is authorized to receive and possess the material under the relevant NRC or Agreement State regulations.
(b) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the import of more than 100 kilograms per shipment of source and/or special nuclear material in the form of irradiated fuel.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the import under a general license of radioactive waste.
(d) A person importing formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (as defined in § 73.2 of this chapter) under this general license shall provide the notifications required by § 73.27 and § 73.72 of this chapter.
(e) A general license is issued to any person to import the major components of a utilization facility as defined in § 110.2 for end-use at a utilization facility licensed by the Commission.
(f) Importers of radioactive material listed in appendix P to this part must provide the notifications required by § 110.50.
[51 FR 47208, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 38336, Aug. 13, 1991; 58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993; 60 FR 37564, July 21, 1995; 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 65 FR 70291, Nov. 22, 2000; 68 FR 31589, May 28, 2003; 70 FR 37991, July 1, 2005; 75 FR 44089, July 28, 2010; 77 FR 27114, May 9, 2012]
§ 110.28
Embargoed destinations.
Cuba
Iran
Iraq
North Korea
Syria
Sudan
[58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 65 FR 70291, Nov. 22, 2000; 70 FR 29936, May 25, 2005; 72 FR 1427, Jan. 12, 2007]
§ 110.29
Restricted destinations.
Afghanistan
Andorra
Angola
Burma (Myanmar)
Djibouti
India
Israel
Libya
Pakistan
South Sudan
[58 FR 13003, Mar. 9, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 48998, Sept. 26, 1994; 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 70 FR 29936, May 25, 2005; 72 FR 1427, Jan. 12, 2007; 77 FR 11385, Feb. 27, 2012; 78 FR 8361, Feb. 6, 2013]
§ 110.30
Members of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belarus
Belgium
Brazil
Bulgaria
Canada
China
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kazakhstan
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Romania
Russia
Serbia
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
[59 FR 48998, Sept. 26, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 65 FR 70291, Nov. 22, 2000; 75 FR 44089, July 28, 2010; 79 FR 39291, July 10, 2014]
§ 110.31
Application for a specific license.
(a) A person shall file an application for a specific license to export or import with the Deputy Director of the NRC's Office of International Programs, using an appropriate method listed in § 110.4.
(b) Applications for an export, import, amendment or renewal licenses or a request for an exemption from a licensing requirement under this part shall be filed on NRC Form 7.
(c) An application for a specific license to export or import or a request for an exemption from a licensing requirement must be accompanied by the appropriate fee in accordance with the fee schedules in § 170.21 and § 170.31 of this chapter. A license application will not be processed unless the specified fee is received.
(d) Each application on NRC Form 7 shall be signed by the applicant or licensee or a person duly authorized to act for and on behalf of the applicant or licensee.
(e) Each person shall provide in the license application, as appropriate, the information specified in § 110.32. The Commission also may require the submission of additional information if necessary to complete its review.
(f) An application may cover multiple shipments and destinations.
(g) The applicant shall withdraw an application when it is no longer needed. The Commission's official files retain all documents related to a withdrawn application.
[75 FR 44089, July 28, 2010]
§ 110.32
Information required in an application for a specific license/NRC Form 7.
(a) Name and address of applicant.
(b) Name and address of any other party, including the supplier of equipment or material, if different from the applicant.
(c) Country of origin of equipment or material, and any other countries that have processed the material prior to its import into the U.S.

# Note:
This is meant to include all obligations attached to the material, according to the definition of
obligations
in § 110.2. Licensees must keep records of obligations attached to material which they own or is in their possession.
(d) Names and addresses of all intermediate and ultimate consignees, other than intermediate consignees performing shipping services only.
(e) Dates of proposed first and last shipments.
(f) Description of the equipment or material including, as appropriate, the following:
(1) Maximum quantity of material in grams or kilograms (terabecquerels or TBq for byproduct material) and its chemical and physical form.
(2) For enriched uranium, the maximum weight percentage of enrichment and maximum weight of contained uranium-235.
(3) For nuclear equipment, the name of the facility and its total dollar value.
(4) For nuclear reactors, the name of the facility, its design power level and its total dollar value.
(5) For proposed exports or imports of radioactive waste, the volume, physical and chemical characteristics, route of transit of shipment, classification (as defined in § 61.55 of this chapter) if imported or exported for direct disposal
at part 61 or equivalent Agreement State licensed facility, and ultimate disposition (including forms of management or treatment) of the waste.
(6) For proposed imports of radioactive waste, the industrial or other process responsible for generation of the waste, and the status of the arrangements for disposition, including pertinent documentation of these arrangements.
(7) Description of end use by all consignees in sufficient detail to permit accurate evaluation of the justification for the proposed export or import, including the need for shipment by the dates specified.
(g)(1) For proposed exports of Category 1 quantities of material listed in Table 1 of appendix P to this part, pertinent documentation that the recipient of the material has the necessary authorization under the laws and regulations of the importing country to receive and possess the material.
(2) For proposed exports of Category 2 quantities of material listed in Table 1 of appendix P to this part, pertinent documentation that the recipient of the material has the necessary authorization under the laws and regulations of the importing country to receive and possess the material. This documentation must be provided to the NRC at least 24 hours prior to the shipment.
(3) Pertinent documentation shall consist of a copy of the recipient's authorization to receive and possess the material to be exported or a confirmation from the government of the importing country that the recipient is so authorized. The recipient authorization shall include the following information:
(i) Name of the recipient;
(ii) Recipient location and legal address or principal place of business;
(iii) Relevant radionuclides and radioactivity being imported or that the recipient is authorized to receive and possess;
(iv) Uses, if appropriate; and
(v) The expiration date of the recipient's authorization (if any).
[75 FR 44089, July 28, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 52826, Nov. 15, 2017]

# Subpart D—Review of License Applications
§ 110.40
Commission review.
(a) Immediately after receipt of a license application for an export or import requiring a specific license under this part, the Commission will initiate its licensing review and, to the maximum extent feasible, will expeditiously process the application concurrently with any applicable review by the Executive Branch.
(b) The Commissioners shall review a license application for export of the following:
(1) A production or utilization facility.
(2) More than 5 effective kilograms of high-enriched uranium, plutonium or uranium-233.
(3) An export involving assistance to end uses related to isotope separation, chemical reprocessing, heavy water production, advanced reactors, or the fabrication of nuclear fuel containing plutonium, except for exports of source material or low-enriched uranium to EURATOM, the United Kingdom, or Japan for enrichment up to 5 percent in the isotope uranium-235, and those categories of exports which the Commission has approved in advance as constituting permitted incidental assistance.
(4) The initial export to a country since March 10, 1978 of source or special nuclear material for nuclear end use.
(5) An initial export to any country listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29 involving over:
(i) 10 grams of plutonium, uranium-233 or high-enriched uranium;
(ii) 1 effective kilogram of low-enriched uranium;
(iii) 250 kilograms of source material;
(iv) 250 kilograms of heavy water for nuclear end use; or
(v) 37 TBq (1,000 curies) of tritium.
(6) The export of radioactive material listed in Table 1 of Appendix P of this part involving:
(i) Exceptional circumstances in § 110.42(e); or
(ii) Category 1 quantities of material to any country listed in § 110.28.
(c) The Commission will review export and import license applications raising significant policy issues.
(d) If the Commission has not completed action on a license application within 60 days after receipt of the Executive Branch judgment, as provided for in § 110.41, or the license application when an Executive Branch judgment is not required, it will inform the applicant in writing of the reason for delay and, as appropriate, provide follow-up reports.
[75 FR 44090, July 28, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 86795, Dec. 31, 2020; 86 FR 55479, Oct. 6, 2021]
§ 110.41
Executive Branch review.
(a) An application for a license to export the following will be promptly forwarded to the Executive Branch for review:
(1) A production or utilization facility.
(2) More than one effective kilogram of high-enriched uranium or 10 grams of plutonium or uranium-233.
(3) Nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use.
(4) More than 3.7 TBq (100 Curies) of tritium;
(5) Deuterium for nuclear end use, other than exports of deuterium to Canada;
(6) One kilogram or more of source or special nuclear material to be exported under the US-IAEA Agreement for Cooperation.
(7) An export involving assistance to end uses related to isotope separation, chemical reprocessing, heavy water production, advanced reactors, or the fabrication of nuclear fuel containing plutonium, except for exports of source material or low-enriched uranium to EURATOM, the United Kingdom, or Japan for enrichment up to 5 percent in the isotope uranium-235, and those categories of exports approved in advance by the Executive Branch as constituting permitted incidental assistance.
(8) The initial export of nuclear material or equipment to a foreign reactor.
(9) An export involving radioactive waste.
(10) An export to any country listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29.
(11) An export raising significant policy issues or subject to special limitations as determined by the Commission or the Executive Branch, including exports of radioactive material listed in Table 1 of appendix P to this part involving exceptional circumstances in § 110.42(e).
(b) The Executive Branch will be requested to:
(1) Provide its judgment as to whether the proposed export would be inimical to the common defense and security, along with supporting rationale and information.
(2) Where applicable, confirm that the proposed export would be under the terms of an agreement for cooperation; and
(3) Address the extent to which the export criteria in § 110.42 are met, if applicable, and the extent to which the recipient country or group of countries has adhered to the provisions of any applicable agreement for cooperation.
(c) The Commission may request the Executive Branch to address specific concerns and provide additional data and recommendations as necessary.
[43 FR 21641, May 19, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 47200, Dec. 3, 1984; 58 FR 13004, Mar. 9, 1993; 60 FR 37564, July 21, 1995; 61 FR 35602, July 8, 1996; 70 FR 41939, July 21, 2005; 70 FR 37992, July 1, 2005; 70 FR 46066, Aug. 9, 2005; 75 FR 44090, July 28, 2010; 85 FR 86795, Dec. 31, 2020; 86 FR 55479, Oct. 6, 2021]
§ 110.42
Export licensing criteria.
(a) The review of license applications for export for peaceful nuclear uses of production or utilization facilities
1
or for export for peaceful nuclear uses of special nuclear or source material requiring a specific license under this part is governed by the following criteria:
1
Export of nuclear reactors, reactor pressure vessels, reactor primary coolant pumps and circulators, “on-line” reactor fuel charging and discharging machines, and complete reactor control rod systems, as specified in paragraphs (1) through (4) of appendix A to this part, are subject to the export licensing criteria in § 110.42(a). Exports of nuclear reactor components, as specified in paragraphs (5) through (11) of appendix A to this part, when exported separately from the items described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of appendix A to this part, are subject to the export licensing criteria in § 110.42(b).
(1) IAEA safeguards as required by Article III (2) of the NPT will be applied with respect to any such facilities
or material proposed to be exported, to any such material or facilities previously exported and subject to the applicable agreement for cooperation, and to any special nuclear material used in or produced through the use thereof.
(2) No such material or facilities proposed to be exported or previously exported and subject to the applicable agreement for cooperation, and no special nuclear material produced through the use of such material or facilities, will be used for any nuclear explosive device or for research on or development of any nuclear explosive device.
(3) Adequate physical security measures will be maintained with respect to such material or facilities proposed to be exported and to any special nuclear material used in or produced through the use thereof. Physical security measures will be deemed adequate if such measures provide a level of protection equivalent to that set forth in § 110.44.
(4) No such material or facilities proposed to be exported, and no special nuclear material produced through the use of such material, will be retransferred to the jurisdiction of any other country or group of countries unless the prior approval of the United States is obtained for such retransfer.
(5) No such material proposed to be exported and no special nuclear material produced through the use of such material will be reprocessed, and no irradiated fuel elements containing such material removed from a reactor will be altered in form or content, unless the prior approval of the United States is obtained for such reprocessing or alteration.
(6) With respect to exports of such material or facilities to nonnuclear weapon states, IAEA safeguards will be maintained with respect to all peaceful activities in, under the jurisdiction of, or carried out under the control of such state at the time of export. This criterion will not be applied if the Commission has been notified by the President in writing that failure to approve an export because this criterion has not been met would be seriously prejudicial to the achievement of United States nonproliferation objectives or otherwise jeopardize the common defense and security, in which case the provisions of section 128 of the Atomic Energy Act regarding Congressional review will apply.
(7) The proposed export of a facility or of more than 0.003 effective kilograms of special nuclear material, other than plutonium containing 80 percent or more by weight of plutonium-238, would be under the terms of an agreement for cooperation.
(8) The proposed export is not inimical to the common defense and security and, in the case of facility exports, does not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety in the United States.
(9)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section, with respect to exports of high-enriched uranium to be used as a fuel or target in a nuclear research or test reactor, the Commission determines that:
(A) There is no alternative nuclear reactor fuel or target enriched to less than 20 percent in the isotope U-235 that can be used in that reactor;
(B) The proposed recipient of the uranium has provided assurances that, whenever an alternative nuclear reactor fuel or target can be used in that reactor, it will use that alternative fuel or target in lieu of highly-enriched uranium; and
(C) The United States Government is actively developing an alternative nuclear reactor fuel or target that can be used in that reactor.
(ii) With regard to a Recipient Country, the Commission may issue a license authorizing the export of high-enriched uranium for medical isotope production, including shipment to and use at intermediate and ultimate consignees, if the Commission determines that:
(A) The Recipient Country that supplies an assurance letter to the United States Government in connection with the consideration by the Commission of the export license application has informed the United States Government that any intermediate consignees and the ultimate consignee specified in the export license application are required to use the high-enriched uranium solely for the production of medical isotopes; and
(B) The high-enriched uranium will be irradiated only in a reactor in the Recipient Country that—
(
1
) Uses an alternative nuclear fuel; or
(
2
) Is the subject of an agreement with the United States Government to convert to an alternative nuclear reactor fuel when alternative nuclear reactor fuel can be used in the reactor.
(iii) A fuel or target “can be used” in a nuclear research or test reactor if—
(A) The fuel or target has been qualified by the Reduced Enrichment Research and Test Reactor Program of the Department of Energy; and
(B) Use of the fuel or target will permit the large majority of ongoing and planned experiments and isotope production to be conducted in the reactor without a large percentage increase in the total cost of operating the reactor.
(b) The review of license applications for the export of nuclear equipment, other than a production or utilization facility, and for deuterium for nuclear end use and nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use is governed by the following criteria:
(1) IAEA safeguards as required by Article III (2) of the NPT will be applied with respect to such equipment or material.
(2) No such equipment or material will be used for any nuclear explosive device or for research on or development of any nuclear explosive device.
