(5) Any other entity and the individuals having beneficial interests therein (such as a cooperative corporation and its shareholders), to the extent that such entity is treated as a conduit for purposes of the taxes imposed by chapter 1, corresponds to the tax treatment provided therefor with respect to the taxes imposed by chapter 1. For example, a subchapter S corporation shall not be subject to the State's corporate income tax on amounts which are includible in shareholders incomes which are subject to that State's individual income tax, except to the extent that the subchapter S corporation is subject to tax under Federal law. Similarly, a partnership shall not be subject to the State's unincorporated business income tax on amounts which are includible in partners' incomes which are subject to that State's individual income tax. However, the laws of the State which set forth the provisions of such State individual income tax shall authorize the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to require that the conduit entities described in this paragraph (or some of them) supply information to the Federal Government with respect to the source of income, the State of residence, or the amount of income of a particular type, of an individual, estate, or trust holding a beneficial interest in such conduit entity.
(h)
Members of armed forces.
The relief provided to any member of the Armed Forces by section 514 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. section 574) is in no way diminished. Accordingly, for purposes of such State tax, an individual shall not be considered to have become a resident of a State solely because of his absence
from his original State of residence under military order. Moreover, compensation for military service shall not be considered as income derived from a source within a State of which the individual earning such compensation is not a resident, within the meaning of paragraph (d) of § 301.6362-5. The preceding sentence shall not apply to nonmilitary compensation. Thus, for example, if an individual who is serving in State X as a member of the Armed Forces, and who is regarded as a resident of State Y under the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act, earns nonmilitary income in State X from a part-time job, such nonmilitary income may be subject to a qualified nonresident tax imposed by State X.
(i)
Withholding on compensation of employees of railroads, motor carriers, airlines, and water carriers.
There is no contravention of the provisions of section 26, 226A, or 324 of the Interstate Commerce Act, or of section 1112 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, with respect to the withholding of compensation to which such sections apply for purposes of the nonresident tax.
(j)
Income derived from interstate commerce.
There is no contravention of the provisions of the Act of September 14, 1959 (73 Stat. 555), with respect to the taxation of income derived from interstate commerce to which such statute applies.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59372, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6363-1
State agreements.
(a)
Notice of election.
If a State elects to enter into a State agreement it shall file notice of such election with the Secretary or his delegate. The notice of election shall include the following:
(1)
Statement by the Governor.
A written statement by the Governor of the electing State:
(i) Requesting that the Secretary enter into a State agreement, and
(ii) Binding the Governor and his successors in office to notify the Secretary or his delegate immediately of the enactment, between the time of the filing of the notice of election and the time of the execution of the State agreement, of any law of that State which meets the description given in any of the subdivisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (a), whether or not such law is intended to be administered by the United States pursuant to subchapter E.
(2)
Copy of State laws.
Certified copies of all laws of that State described in any of the following subdivisions of this subparagraph, and a specification of laws described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph as “subchapter E laws”, of laws described in subdivision (ii) as “other tax laws”, of laws described in subdivision (iii) as “non-tax laws”, and of laws described in subdivision (iv) as “interstate cooperation laws”:
(i) All of the State individual income tax laws (including laws relating to the collection or administration of such taxes or to the prosecution of alleged civil or criminal violations with respect to such taxes) which the State would expect the United States to administer pursuant to subchapter E if the State agreement is executed as requested. In order to have a valid notice, the State must have a tax which would meet the requirements for qualification specified in section 6362 and the regulations thereunder if a State agreement were in effect with respect thereto, with no conditions attached to the effectiveness of such tax other than the execution of a State agreement. Such tax must be effective no later than the January 1 specified in the State's notice of election as the date as of which subchapter E is desired to become applicable to the electing State, except that such effective date shall be deferred to the date provided in the State agreement for the beginning of applicability of subchapter E to the State, if the latter date is different from the date specified in the notice of election.
(ii) All of the State income tax laws applicable to individuals (including laws relating to the collection or administration of such taxes or to the prosecution of alleged civil or criminal violations with respect to such taxes) which the State would not expect the United States to administer but which may be in effect simultaneously (for any period of time) with the State agreement.
(iii) All of the State laws other than individual income tax laws which provide for the making of any payments
by the State based on one or more criteria which the State may desire to verify by reference to information contained in returns of qualified taxes.
(iv) All of the State laws which may be in effect simultaneously (for any period of time) with the State agreement and which provide for cooperation or reciprocal agreement between the electing State and another State with respect to income taxes applicable to individuals.
(3)
Approval by legislature or authorization by constitutional amendment.
A certified copy of an Act or Resolution of the legislature of the electing State in which the legislature affirmatively expresses its approval of the State's entry into a State agreement, or a certified copy of an amendment to the constitution of such State by which the voters of the State affirmatively authorize such entry.
(4)
Opinion by State Attorney General or judgment of highest court.
A written statement by the State Attorney General to the effect that, in his opinion, no provision of the State's Constitution would be violated by the State law's incorporation by reference of the Federal individual income tax laws and regulations, as amended from time to time, by the Federal prosecution and trial of individuals who are alleged to have committed crimes with respect to the State's qualified tax (when it goes into effect as such), or by any other provision relating to such tax, considered as of the time it is being collected and administered by the Federal Government pursuant to subchapter E. However, if such a statement is not included in the notice of election, a judgment of the highest court of the State to the same effect may be submitted in its place.
(5)
Effective date.
A written specification of the January as of which subchapter E is desired to become applicable to the electing State.
(b)
Rules relating to time for filing notice of election.
An electing State must file its notice of election more than 6 months prior to the January 1 as of which the notice specifies that the provisions of subchapter E are desired to become applicable to such State. Thus, for example, if the date specified in the notice is January 1, 1979, the notice must be filed no later than June 30, 1978. However, because under the provisions of section 204(b) of the Federal-State Tax Collection Act of 1972 (86 Stat. 945), as amended by section 2116(a) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1910), the provisions of subchapter E will initially take effect on the first January 1 which is more than 1 year after the first date on which at least one State has filed a notice of its election (see § 301.6361-5), the notice of an election which causes subchapter E to initially take effect must be filed with the Secretary or his delegate more than 1 year prior to the January 1 as of which such notice specifies that the provisions of subchapter E are desired to become applicable to such State. Thus, for example, if such an initially electing State desires to elect subchapter E as of January 1, 1979, its notice must be filed no later than December 31, 1977. For purposes of this section, if the notice of election is sent by either registered or certified mail to the Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. 20220, then it shall be deemed to be filed on the date of mailing; otherwise, the notice of election shall be deemed to be filed when it is received by the Secretary or his delegate.
(c)
Procedures relating to defects in notice or tax laws.
If a State has filed a notice of election, then the Secretary shall, within 90 days after the notice is filed, notify the Governor of such State in writing of any defect in the notice of election which prevents it from being valid, and of any defect in the State's tax laws which causes the tax submitted to fail to meet the requirements for qualification specified in section 6362 and the regulations thereunder, other than the fact that no State agreement is in effect with respect thereto. Any such defect of which the Secretary does not notify the Governor within such 90-day period is waived. The Secretary or his delegate may, in his discretion, permit any of such defects of which the Governor is timely notified to be cured retroactively to the date of the filing of the notice of election, by amendment of the notice or the State law. Judicial review of the Secretary's determination that the notice of election or the
tax laws, or both, contain defects, may be obtained as set forth in section 6363(d) and § 301.6363-4.
(d)
Execution and contents of State agreement.
If the Secretary does not timely notify the Governor of a defect in the notice of election or in the State's tax laws, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or if, as provided in such paragraph, all such defects have been cured retroactively, then the Secretary shall enter into a State agreement. The agreement shall include the following elements:
(1)
Effective date.
The agreement shall specify the January 1 as of which subchapter E will commence to be applicable to the State. Such date shall be the same as that specified in the notice of election pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section, unless the parties agree to a different January 1, except that in no event shall a State agreement executed after November 1 specify the next January 1.
(2)
Obligation of Governor to notify the United States of changes in pertinent State laws.
The agreement shall require the Governor of the State, and his successors in office, to notify the Secretary or his delegate within 30 days of the enactment of any law of the State, after the execution of the agreement, of a type described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3)
Obligation of Governor to furnish to the United States information needed to administer State tax laws.
The agreement shall require the Governor and his successors to furnish to the Secretary or his delegate any information needed by the Federal Government to administer the State tax laws. Such information shall include, for example, a list (which shall be maintained on a current basis) of those obligations of the State or its political subdivisions described in section 103(a)(1) from which the interest is not subject to the qualified taxes of the State.
(4)
Identification of State official to act as liaison with Federal Government.
The agreement shall include a designation by the Governor of the State official or officials with whom the Secretary or his delegate should coordinate in connection with any questions or problems which may arise during the period for which the State agreement is effective, including those which may result from changes or contemplated changes in pertinent State laws.
(5)
Identification of State official to receive transferred funds.
The agreement shall include a designation by the Governor of the State official who shall initially receive the funds on behalf of the State when they are transferred pursuant to section 6361(c) and § 301.6361-3.
(6)
Other obligations.
If the Secretary and the Governor both so agree, the agreement shall provide for additional obligations.
(e)
State agreement superseding certain other agreements.
For the period of its effectiveness, a State agreement shall supersede an otherwise effective agreement entered into by the State and the Secretary for the withholding of State income taxes from the compensation of Federal employees pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5517 (or pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5516, in the case of the District of Columbia).
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59373, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6363-2
Withdrawal from State agreements.
(a)
By notification.
If a State which has entered into a State agreement desires to withdraw from the agreement, its Governor shall file a notice of withdrawal with the Secretary or his delegate. A notice of withdrawal shall include the following documents:
(1)
Request by the Governor.
A request by the Governor of the State that the State agreement cease to be effective with respect to taxable years beginning on or after a specified January 1, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of § 301.6365-2 with respect to withholding in the case of fiscal year taxpayers.
(2)
Legislative approval of withdrawal.
A certified copy of an act or Resolution of the legislature of the State in which the legislature affirmatively expresses its approval of the State's withdrawal from the State agreement.
(3)
Identification of State official.
A written identification of the State official or officials with whom the Secretary or his delegate should coordinate in connection with the State's withdrawal from the State agreement.
(b)
By change in State law.
If any law of a State which has entered into a State agreement is enacted pertaining
to individual income taxes (including the collection or administration of such taxes, and the prosecution of alleged civil or criminal violations with respect to such taxes), and if the Secretary or his delegate determines that as a result of such law the State no longer has a qualified tax, then such change in the State law shall be treated as a notification of withdrawal from the agreement. The Secretary shall notify the Governor in writing when a change is to be so treated. Such notification shall have the same effect as if, on the effective date of the disqualifying change in the law, the Governor had filed with the Secretary or his delegate a valid and sufficient notice of withdrawal requesting that the State agreement cease to be effective with respect to taxable years beginning on or after the first January 1 which is more than 6 months thereafter, subject to the exception with respect to withholding in the case of fiscal-year taxpayers. However, the cessation of effectiveness may be deferred to a subsequent January 1 if the Governor so requests and if the Secretary or his delegate in his discretion determines that the date of cessation provided in the preceding sentence would subject the State or its taxpayers to undue hardship. In addition, the Governor may request the Secretary or his delegate to permit the State's early withdrawal from the agreement, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Until the date of cessation of effectiveness of the State agreement, the change in State law which was treated as a notification of withdrawal, and any other such subsequent change that would be similarly treated, shall not be given effect for purposes of the Federal collection and administration of the State taxes. Similarly, such changes shall not be given effect for such purposes during the period of litigation if the State seeks judicial review of the action of the Secretary or his delegate pursuant to section 6363(d) or § 301.6363-4, even if such changes are ultimately found by the court not to disqualify the State's qualified tax. However, a change in State law which would be treated as a notice of withdrawal in the absence of this sentence shall not be so treated if, prior to the last November 1 preceding the January 1 on which the cessation of effectiveness of the State agreement is to occur, either such change in State law is retroactively repealed, or the State law is retroactively modified and the Secretary or his delegate determines that with such modification the State has a qualified tax.
(c)
Rules relating to time of withdrawal
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (c), a notice of withdrawal shall not be valid unless the January 1 specified therein is not earlier than the first January 1 which is more than 6 months subsequent to the date on which the notice is received by the Secretary or his delegate. Thus, for example, if the notice specifies January 1, 1980, for withdrawal, the notice must be received no later than June 30, 1979.
(2)
Early withdrawal.
The Secretary or his delegate may, in his discretion and upon written request by a Governor of a State who has filed a notice of withdrawal, waive the 6-months requirement of section 6363(b)(1) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (c), if the Secretary determines that:
(i) The State will suffer a hardship if required to meet such requirement, and
(ii) The early withdrawal requested by the Governor would be practicable from the standpoint of orderly collection of the qualified tax and administration of the State law by the Federal Government.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59374, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6363-3
Transition years.
The State may by law provide for the transition to or from a qualified tax to the extent necessary to prevent double taxation or other unintended hardships, or to prevent unintended benefits, under State law. Generally, such provisions shall be administered by the State; but, if requested to do so by the Governor of the State, the Secretary or his delegate may in his discretion, agree to administer such provisions either solely or jointly with the State.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59375, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6363-4
Judicial review.
(a)
General rule.
If the Secretary or his delegate determines pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 301.6363-1 that a State
did not file a valid notice of election or does not have a tax which would meet the requirements for qualification specified in section 6362 and the regulations thereunder if a State agreement were in effect with respect thereto, or if he determines pursuant to paragraph (b) of § 301.6363-2 that a participating State has enacted a law as a result of which the State no longer has a qualified tax, such State may, within 60 days after its Governor has received notification of such determination, file a petition for the review of such determination with either the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the State is located or the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. If a State files such a petition, the clerk of the court shall forthwith transmit a copy of the petition to the Secretary or his delegate, who in turn shall thereupon file in the court the record of proceedings on which the determination adverse to the State was based, as provided in section 2112 of title 28, United States Code.
(b)
Court of Appeals' jurisdiction.
The court of Appeals may affirm or set aside, in whole or in part, the action of the Secretary or his delegate; and (subject to the rules delaying the effectiveness of the change in State law provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6363-2) the court may issue such other orders as may be appropriate with respect to taxable years which include any part of the period of litigation.
(c)
Review of Court of Appeals' judgment.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon certiorari or certification sought by either party as provided in section 1254 of title 28, United States Code.
(d)
Effect of final judgment.
If a final judgment, rendered with respect to litigation involving a State's petition to review a determination of the Secretary or his delegate to the effect that the State's individual income tax laws included in its notice of election would not meet the requirements for qualification specified in section 6362 and the regulations thereunder if a State agreement were in effect with respect thereto, includes a determination that the State's tax would in fact meet such requirements, then the provisions of subchapter E shall apply to the State with respect to taxable years beginning on or after the first January 1 which is more than 6 months after the date of such final judgment. If a final judgment, rendered with respect to litigation involving a State's petition to review a determination of the Secretary or his delegate to the effect that the State's previously-qualified tax ceases to qualify because of a change in the State's law, includes a determination that the State's tax does in fact cease to qualify, then the provisions of subchapter E (other than section 6363) shall cease to apply to the State with respect to taxable years beginning on or after the first January 1 which is more than 6 months after the date of such final judgment. See paragraph (b) of § 301.6365-2 for special rules with respect to withholding in the case of fiscal-year taxpayers.
(e)
Expeditious treatment of judicial proceedings.
Under section 6363(d)(4), any judicial proceedings to which a State and the United States are parties, and which are brought pursuant to section 6363, are entitled to receive a preference, and to be heard and determined as expeditiously as possible, upon request of the Secretary or the State.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59375, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6365-1
Definitions.
(a)
State.
For purposes of subchapter E and the regulations thereunder, the term “State” shall include the District of Columbia, but shall not include the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or any possession of the United States.
(b)
Governor.
For purposes of subchapter E and the regulations thereunder, the term “Governor” shall include the Mayor of the District of Columbia.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59375, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6365-2
Commencement and cessation of applicability of subchapter E to individual taxpayers.
(a)
General rule.
Except for purposes of chapter 24 (relating to the collection of income tax at source on wages), whenever subchapter E begins or ceases to apply to any State (
i.e.
, a State
agreement begins or ceases to be effective) as of any January 1, such commencement or cessation of applicability shall apply to taxable years of individuals beginning on or after such date. For example, if subchapter E begins to apply to a particular State on January 1, 1980, it would become applicable for calendar year 1980 for calendar-year taxpayers in that State; but if a taxpayer in the State is using a fiscal year running from July 1 to June 30, the subchapter would begin to apply (except for purposes of chapter 24) to that taxpayer on July 1, 1980, for his taxable year ending June 30, 1981. Similarly, if the subchapter ceases to apply to such State on January 1, 1982, it would cease to apply to calendar-year taxpayers after the end of calendar year 1981; but it would cease to apply (except for purposes of chapter 24) to fiscal-year taxpayers at the end of their fiscal years which are in progress on January 1, 1982. The cessation of applicability of subchapter E to a State does not affect rights, duties, and liabilities with respect to any taxable year for which subchapter E does apply with respect to any taxpayer (or his employer).
(b)
Special rules pertaining to withholding
—(1)
Subchapter E beginning to apply.
The Federal withholding system provided in chapter 24 shall go into effect for State individual income tax purposes with respect to wages paid on or after the January 1 as of which subchapter E begins to apply to a State. If an employee is subject to a qualified tax imposed by the State, such withholding system shall apply to his wages paid on or after that January 1, without regard to whether he is a calendar-year or fiscal-year taxpayer. See § 301.6363-3 with respect to transition-year rules.
(2)
Subchapter E ceasing to apply.
The Federal withholding system provided in chapter 24 shall cease to be effective for State tax purposes with respect to wages paid on or after the January 1 as of which subchapter E ceases to apply to the State, although fiscal-year taxpayers of that State continue to be subject to the other provisions of subchapter E for the remainder of their fiscal years then in progress. See § 301.6363-3 with respect to transition-year rules.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59375, Dec. 20, 1978]

# Abatements, Credits, and Refunds

# Procedure in General
§ 301.6401-1
Amounts treated as overpayments.
(a) The term “overpayment” includes:
(1) Any payment of any internal revenue tax which is assessed or collected after the expiration of the period of limitation applicable thereto.
(2) Any amount allowable for a taxable year as credits under sections 31 (relating to tax withheld on wages), 39 (relating to certain uses of gasoline, special fuels, and, lubricating oil), 43 (relating to earned income credit), and 667(b) (relating to taxes paid by certain trusts) which exceeds the tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code (reduced by the credits allowable under subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Code, other than the credits allowable under sections 31, 39, and 43) for such year.
(b) An amount paid as tax shall not be considered not to constitute an overpayment solely by reason of the fact that there was no tax liability in respect of which such amount was paid.
[T.D. 7204, 37 FR 17158, Aug. 25, 1972, as amended by T.D. 7537, 43 FR 13878, Apr. 3, 1978]
§ 301.6402-1
Authority to make credits or refunds.
The Commissioner, within the applicable period of limitations, may credit any overpayment of tax, including interest thereon, against any outstanding liability for any tax (or for any interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty) owed by the person making the overpayment and the balance, if any, shall be refunded, subject to sections 6402 (c) and (d) and the regulations thereunder, to that person by the Commissioner.
[T.D. 8053, 50 FR 39662, Sept. 30, 1985]
§ 301.6402-2
Claims for credit or refund.
(a)
Requirement that claim be filed.
(1) Credits or refunds of overpayments may not be allowed or made after the expiration of the statutory period of limitation properly applicable unless, before the expiration of such period, a claim therefor has been filed by the taxpayer. Furthermore, under section 7422, a civil action for refund may not be instituted unless a claim has been filed within the properly applicable period of limitation.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents), if a taxpayer is required to file a claim for credit or refund using a particular form, then the claim, together with appropriate supporting evidence, shall be filed in a manner consistent with such form, form instructions, publications, or other guidance found on the IRS.gov Web site. If a taxpayer is filing a claim in response to an IRS notice or correspondence, then the claim must be filed in accordance with the specific instructions contained in the notice or correspondence regarding the manner of filing. Any other claim not described in the preceding sentences generally must be filed with the service center at which the taxpayer currently would be required to file a tax return for the type of tax to which the claim relates or via the appropriate electronic portal. For rules relating to interest in the case of credits or refunds, see section 6611. For rules treating timely mailing as timely filing, see section 7502. For rules relating to the time for filing a claim when the last day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, see section 7503.
(b)
Grounds set forth in claim.
(1) No refund or credit will be allowed after the expiration of the statutory period of limitation applicable to the filing of a claim therefor except upon one or more of the grounds set forth in a claim filed before the expiration of such period. The claim must set forth in detail each ground upon which a credit or refund is claimed and facts sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the exact basis thereof. The statement of the grounds and facts must be verified by a written declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury. A claim which does not comply with this paragraph will not be considered for any purpose as a claim for refund or credit.
(2) The IRS does not have the authority to refund on equitable grounds penalties or other amounts legally collected.
(c)
Form for filing claim.
If a particular form is prescribed on which the claim must be made, then the claim must be made on the form so prescribed. For special rules applicable to refunds of income taxes, see § 301.6402-3. For provisions relating to credits and refunds of taxes other than income tax, see the regulations relating to the particular tax. All claims by taxpayers for the refund of taxes, interest, penalties, and additions to tax that are not otherwise provided for must be made on Form 843, “Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement.”
(d)
Separate claims for separate taxable periods.
In the case of income and gift taxes, income tax withheld, taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, taxes under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act, and taxes under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, a separate claim must be made for each return for each taxable period.
(e)
Proof of representative capacity.
If a return is filed by an individual and, after his death, a refund claim is filed by his legal representative, certified copies of the letters testamentary, letters of administration, or other similar evidence must be annexed to the claim, to show the authority of the legal representative to file the claim. If an executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, receiver, or other fiduciary files a return and thereafter a refund claim is filed by the same fiduciary, documentary evidence to establish the legal authority of the fiduciary need not accompany the claim, provided a statement is made in the claim showing that the return was filed by the fiduciary and that the latter is still acting. In such cases, if a refund is to be paid, letters testamentary, letters of administration, or other evidence may be required, but should be submitted only upon the receipt of a specific request therefor. If a claim is filed by a fiduciary other than the one by whom the
return was filed, the necessary documentary evidence should accompany the claim. A claim may be executed by an agent of the person assessed, but in such case a power of attorney must accompany the claim.
(f)
Mailing of refund check.
(1) Checks in payment of claims allowed will be drawn in the names of the persons entitled to the money and, except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (f), the checks may be sent direct to the claimant or to such person in care of an attorney or agent who has filed a power of attorney specifically authorizing him to receive such checks.
(2) Checks in payment of claims which have either been reduced to judgment or settled in the course or as a result of litigation will be drawn in the name of the person or persons entitled to the money and will be sent to the Assistant Attorney General, Tax Division, Department of Justice, for delivery to the taxpayer or the counsel of record in the court proceeding.
(3) For restrictions on the assignment of claims, see section 3477 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 203).
(g)
Misdirected direct deposit refund
—(1)
Definition.
The term
misdirected direct deposit refund
includes any refund of an overpayment of tax that is disbursed as a direct deposit but is not deposited into the account designated on the claim for refund to receive the direct deposit refund.
(2)
Procedures for reporting a misdirected direct deposit refund
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer or a taxpayer's authorized representative may report to the IRS that the taxpayer never received a direct deposit refund and request a replacement refund. The report must include the name of the taxpayer who requested the refund, the taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer, the taxpayer's mailing address, the type of return to which the refund is related, the account number and routing number that the taxpayer requested the refund be directly deposited into, and any other information necessary to locate the misdirected direct deposit refund.
(ii)
How to report a misdirected direct deposit refund.
A reporting described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section may be made in the following ways:
(A) By calling the IRS;
(B) On the form prescribed by the IRS and in accordance with the applicable publications, instructions, or other appropriate guidance;
(C) By contacting the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate by telephone, by mail, facsimile, or in person; or
(D) By submitting the appropriate form in person at a Taxpayer Assistance Center.
(3)
Procedures for coordination with financial institutions
—(i)
Identification of the account that received the misdirected direct deposit refund.
If the IRS receives a report described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, the IRS will confirm that the overpayment was issued as a direct deposit. The IRS will confirm that the overpayment was not credited or offset pursuant to the law in effect immediately prior to the direct deposit being disbursed. If the direct deposit described in the report was issued, the IRS will initiate a refund trace to request the assistance of the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service. In accordance with its own procedures, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service coordinates with the financial institution that holds directly or indirectly the deposit account into which the refund was made, requesting from the financial institution such information as is necessary to identify whether the financial institution received the refund; whether the financial institution returned, or will return, the refund to the IRS, or if no funds are available for return; whether a deposit was made into the account designated on the claim for refund; and the identity of the deposit account owner to whom the deposit was disbursed.
(ii)
Coordination to recover the amounts transferred.
Recovery of the misdirected direct deposit refund from a financial institution shall follow the procedures established by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service shall request the return of the misdirected direct deposit refund from the financial institution that received it. The IRS may contact
the financial institution directly to recover the misdirected direct deposit refund.
(4)
Issuance of replacement refund.
When the IRS has determined that a misdirected direct deposit refund has occurred, the IRS will issue a replacement refund in the full amount of the refund that was misdirected. The replacement refund may be issued as a direct deposit or as a paper check sent to the taxpayer's last known address.
(5)
Applicability of this paragraph (g) to missing refunds.
The provisions of paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(3)(i) of this section should be used for any refund that was disbursed as a direct deposit and that the taxpayer reports as missing. For example, although a refund that was deposited into an incorrect bank account because the taxpayer transposed two digits in their bank account number is not considered to be a misdirected direct deposit refund, the provisions of paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(3)(i) of this section should be used. If the application of these procedures results in an amount recovered by the IRS, the recovered amount will be refunded or credited as allowed by law.
(h)
Applicability dates.
Paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), (c), and (d) of this section apply to claims for credit or refund filed on or after July 24, 2015. Paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), (e), and (f) of this section apply to claims for credit or refund filed before, on or after July 24, 2015. Paragraph (g) of this section applies to reports described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section made after December 22, 2020.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7008, 34 FR 3673, Mar. 1, 1969; T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12794, June 29, 1972; T.D. 7410, 41 FR 11020, Mar. 16, 1976; T.D. ATF-33, 41 FR 44038, Oct. 6, 1976; T.D. 7484, 42 FR 22143, May 2, 1977; T.D. 9727, 80 FR 43951, July 24, 2015; T.D. 9940, 85 FR 83447, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 301.6402-3
Special rules applicable to income tax.
(a) The following rules apply to a claim for credit or refund of income tax:—
(1) In general, in the case of an overpayment of income taxes, a claim for credit or refund of such overpayment shall be made on the appropriate income tax return.
(2) In the case of an overpayment of income taxes for a taxable year of an individual for which a Form 1040 or 1040A has been filed, a claim for refund shall be made on Form 1040X (“Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return”).
(3) In the case of an overpayment of income taxes for a taxable year of a corporation for which a Form 1120 has been filed, a claim for refund shall be made on Form 1120X (“Amended U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return”).
(4) In the case of an overpayment of income taxes for a taxable year for which a form other than Form 1040, 1040A, or 1120 was filed (such as Form 1041 (U.S. Fiduciary Income Tax Return) or Form 990T (Exempt Organization Business Income Tax Return)), a claim for credit or refund shall be made on the appropriate amended income tax return.
(5) A properly executed individual, fiduciary, or corporation original income tax return or an amended return (on 1040X or 1120X if applicable) shall constitute a claim for refund or credit within the meaning of section 6402 and section 6511 for the amount of the overpayment disclosed by such return (or amended return). For purposes of section 6511, such claim shall be considered as filed on the date on which such return (or amended return) is considered as filed, except that if the requirements of § 301.7502-1, relating to timely mailing treated as timely filing are met, the claim shall be considered to be filed on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in which the return (or amended return) was mailed. A return or amended return shall constitute a claim for refund or credit if it contains a statement setting forth the amount determined as an overpayment and advising whether such amount shall be refunded to the taxpayer or shall be applied as a credit against the taxpayer's estimated income tax for the taxable year immediately succeeding the taxable year for which such return (or amended return) is filed. If the taxpayer indicates on its return (or amended return) that all or part of the overpayment shown by its return (or amended return) is to be applied to its estimated income tax for its succeeding taxable year, such indication
shall constitute an election to so apply such overpayment, and no interest shall be allowed on such portion of the overpayment credited and such amount shall be applied as a payment on account of the estimated income tax for such year or the installments thereof.
(6) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the Internal Revenue Service, within the applicable period of limitations, may credit any overpayment of individual, fiduciary, or corporation income tax, including interest thereon, against—
(i) First, any outstanding liability for any tax (or for any interest, additional amount, additions to the tax, or assessable penalty) owed by the taxpayer making the overpayment;
(ii) Second, in the case of an individual taxpayer, amounts of past-due support assigned to a State under section 402(a)(26) or 471(a)(17) of the Social Security Act under procedures set forth in the regulations under section 6402(c);
(iii) Third, past-due and legally enforceable debt under procedures set forth in the regulations under section 6402(d); and
(iv) Fourth, qualifying amounts of past-due support not assigned to a State under procedures set forth in the regulations under section 6402 (c).
Only the balance, if any, of the overpayment remaining after credits described in this paragraph (a)(6) shall be treated in the manner so elected.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) If the taxpayer is not required to show the tax on the form (see section 6014 and the accompanying regulations), the IRS will treat a properly filed income tax return as a claim for refund and such return will constitute a claim for refund within the meaning of section 6402 and section 6511 for the amount of the overpayment shown by the computation of the tax made by the IRS on the basis of the return. For purposes of the limitations period of section 6511, such claim will be treated as filed on the date the return is treated as filed.
(d) In any case in which a taxpayer elects to have an overpayment refunded to him he may not thereafter change his election to have the overpayment applied as a payment on account of his estimated income tax.
(e) In the case of a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation, the appropriate income tax return on which the claim for refund or credit is made must contain the tax identification number of the taxpayer required pursuant to section 6109 and the entire amount of income of the taxpayer subject to tax, even if the tax liability for that income was fully satisfied at source through withholding under chapters 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). Also, if the overpayment of tax resulted from the withholding of tax at source under chapter 3 or 4 of the Code, a copy of the Form 1042-S, “Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income subject to Withholding,” Form 8805, “Foreign Partner's Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax,” or other statement (required under § 1.1446-3(d)(2) of this chapter) required to be provided to the beneficial owner or partner pursuant to § 1.1461-1(c)(1)(i), § 1.1474-1(d)(1)(i), or § 1.1446-3(d) of this chapter must be attached to the return. For purposes of claiming a refund, the Form 8805 or other statement must include the taxpayer identification number of the beneficial owner or partner even if not otherwise required. No claim for refund or credit under chapter 65 of the Code may be made by the taxpayer for any amount that the payor has repaid to the taxpayer pursuant to reimbursement or set-off procedures (described in § 1.1461-2(a)(2),(3) or § 1.1474-2(a)(3), (4) of this chapter). In addition, no claim for refund or credit may be made by a taxpayer for any amount that has been repaid to a qualified intermediary (as described in § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(ii)) or a participating FFI (as described in § 1.1471-1(b)(91)) pursuant to a collective refund filed by such entity on behalf of the taxpayer. See § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(iii) (describing a qualified intermediary agreement) and § 1.1471-4(h) (describing a collective refund). Upon request, a taxpayer must also submit such documentation as the IRS, may require establishing that the taxpayer is the beneficial owner of the income for which a claim for refund or credit is being made and verifying the grounds and facts set forth in taxpayer's claim as required by § 301.6402-
2(b)(1). See § 1.1474-5 for additional requirements that may apply in the case of a refund of tax withheld under chapter 4.
(f)
Effective/applicability date
—(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, this section applies on or after January 6, 2017. (For payments made after June 30, 2014, and before January 6, 2017, see this section as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2016.)
(2) References in paragraph (e) of this section to Form 8805 or other statements required under § 1.1446-3(d)(2) shall apply to partnership taxable years beginning after April 29, 2008. References in paragraph (e) of this section to amounts withheld under chapter 4 of the Code and claims made with respect to amounts withheld under chapter 4 of the Code shall apply to withholdable payments made after June 30, 2014.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7102, 36 FR 5498, Mar. 24, 1971; T.D. 7234, 37 FR 28163, Dec. 21, 1972; T.D. 7293, 38 FR 32804, Nov. 28, 1973; T.D. 7298, 38 FR 35234, Dec. 26, 1973; T.D. 7410, 41 FR 11020, Mar. 16, 1976; T.D. 7808, 47 FR 5714, Feb. 8, 1982; T.D. 8053, 50 FR 39662, Sept. 30, 1985; T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53495, Oct. 14, 1997; T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23086, Apr. 29, 2008; T.D. 9658, 79 FR 12809, Mar. 6, 2014; T.D. 9727, 80 FR 43951, July 24, 2015; T.D. 9808, 82 FR 2121, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 301.6402-4
Payments in excess of amounts shown on return.
(a) If the IRS determines that the payments by the taxpayer that are made within the period prescribed for payment and before the filing of the return exceed the amount of tax shown on the return (for example, excessive estimated income tax payments or excessive withholding), the IRS may credit or refund such overpayment without awaiting examination of the completed return and without awaiting the filing of a claim for refund. The provisions of §§ 301.6402-2 and 301.6402-3 are applicable to such overpayment, and taxpayers should submit claims for refund (if the income tax return is not itself a claim for refund, as provided in § 301.6402-3) to protect themselves in the event the IRS fails to make such determination and credit or refund. The provisions of section 6405 (relating to reports of refunds in excess of the statutorily prescribed threshold referral amount to the Joint Committee on Taxation) do not apply to the overpayments described in this section.
(b)
Effective/applicability date.
The rules of this section apply to payments made on or after July 24, 2015.
[T.D. 9727, 80 FR 43951, July 24, 2015]
§ 301.6402-5
Offset of past-due support against overpayment.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
Scope.
Section 6402(c) requires the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate to reduce the amount of any overpayment to be refunded to a person making an overpayment by the amount of past-due support owed by that person of which the Secretary has been notified in accordance with section 464 of the Social Security Act. Past-due support shall be collected by offset under section 6402(c) and this section in the same manner as if it were a liability for tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (except that a liability for tax shall be given priority with respect to offset arising under section 6402(a)). Collection by offset under section 6402(c) of this section is a collection procedure separate from the collection procedures provided by section 6305 and § 301.6305-1, relating to assessment and collection of certain child and spousal support liabilities. The sole collection procedure provided by section 6402(c) and this section is that of offset against overpayment. Section 6305 and § 301.6305-1, by contrast, provide for other collection procedures in addition to collection by offset against overpayment. Sections 6305 and 6402(c) have differing procedural requirements and may be used separately or in conjunction with each other.
(2)
General rule.
An amount of past-due support qualifies for offset under this section if it satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. A State shall submit to the Department of Health and Human Services a notification of liability for qualifying past-due support containing the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. A qualifying amount of past-due support owed by a taxpayer who has made an overpayment shall be collected in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this
section. Under paragraph (d), the balance of any overpayment remaining after crediting of the overpayment under section 6402(a) to any liability for an internal revenue tax on the part of the taxpayer shall be offset by the amount of past-due support of which the Internal Revenue Service has been notified. The amount of the overpayment not subject to offset for any liability for an internal revenue tax or for past-due support shall be promptly refunded to the taxpayer. Paragraph (e) of this section requires that the Internal Revenue Service notify the taxpayer of the amount of the offset and of the State to which it has been paid. Under procedures set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, amounts collected by offset shall be transferred to a special account maintained by the Bureau of Government Financial Operations for distribution to the States. The Internal Revenue Service shall make monthly collection reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his delegate. The States shall reimburse the Secretary of the Treasury for the full cost of the refund offset under paragraph (g) of this section.
(b)
Past-due support
—(1)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the term “past-due support” means the amount of a delinquent obligation, which amount was determined under a court order, or an order pursuant to an administrative process established under State law, for support and maintenance of a child or of a child and the parent with whom the child is living.
(2)
Past-due support qualifying for offset.
Past-due support qualifies for offset under section 6402(c) and this section if—
(i) There has been as assignment of the support obligation to a State pursuant to section 402(a)(26) of the Social Security Act (relating to aid and service to needy families with children) and that State has made reasonable efforts to collect the amount of the obligation;
(ii) The amount of past-due support is not less than $150.00;
(iii) The past-due support has been delinquent for three months or longer; and
(iv) A notification of liability for past-due support has been received by the Secretary of the Treasury as prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Notification of liability for past-due support
—(1)
Form.
A State shall, by October 1 of each year, submit a notification (or notifications) of liability for past-due support on magnetic tape to the Special Collection Activities Unit.
Office of Child Support Enforcement, Department of Health and Human Services, 6110 Executive Boulevard, Suite 900, Rockville, Maryland 20852, Attention: Tax Refund Offset—Tape Processing.
(2)
Content.
The notification of liability for past-due support shall contain with respect to each taxpayer—
(i) The name of the taxpayer who owes the past-due support;
(ii) The social security number of that taxpayer;
(iii) The amount of past-due support owed; and
(iv) The alphabetical designation of the State submitting the notification of liability for past-due support.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services may also require such other information from the State submitting the notification as is necessary for his orderly consolidation of data for transmittal to the Internal Revenue Service.
(3)
Transmittal of notification to Internal Revenue Service.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, by December 1 of each year, consolidate and transmit to the Internal Revenue Service on magnetic tape the data contained in the notifications of liability for past-due support submitted by the participating States.
(4)
Correction of notification.
If, after submitting a notification of liability for past-due support, a State determines that an error has been made with respect to the information contained in the notification, or if a State receives a payment or credits a payment to the account of a taxpayer named in this notification, the State shall promptly notify the Office of Child Support Enforcement of the Department of Health and Human Services of these corrections in accordance with any time limitations specified by the Office of Child Support Enforcement. That Office shall promptly
transmit these corrections to the Internal Revenue Service and the Internal Revenue Service shall make the appropriate correction of the notification of liability for past-due support. However, in no case shall a State notify the Internal Revenue Service under this paragraph (c)(4) of an increased amount of past-due support owed by a taxpayer named in its notification of liability for past-due support. The correction notification described in this paragraph (c)(4) is to be submitted only for the purpose of completing or correcting the information contained in the notification of liability for past-due support.
(d)
Collection
—(1)
Priority of offset for outstanding tax liability.
Under section 6402(a) and § 301.6402-1, the Commissioner may credit any overpayment of tax against any outstanding liability for any tax owed by the person making the overpayment. Only the balance remaining after such crediting is available for offset under section 6402(c) of this section. Thus, if a taxpayer making an overpayment has both an outstanding tax liability and a liability for past-due support subject to this section, then the entire amount of the overpayment shall be credited first against the outstanding tax liability under section 6402(a) and § 301.6402-1 and only the remainder, if any, of the overpayment will be offset by the amount of past-due support. However, an overpayment shall be offset by an amount of past-due support under section 6402(c) before any crediting of the overpayment to any future liability for an internal revenue tax. Thus, for example, if no outstanding tax liability is owed and the amount of an overpayment is equal to or less than the amount of past-due support, the Internal Revenue Service shall offset the overpayment by the amount of past-due support before crediting the overpayment against the taxpayer's estimated income tax for the succeeding taxable year under section 6402(b).
(2)
Amounts subject to offset.
The balance of any overpayment remaining after a crediting of the overpayment under section 6402(a) to any outstanding liability for tax on the part of the taxpayer shall be offset by the amount of past-due support of which the Internal Revenue Service has been notified under this section.
(3)
Amounts not subject to offset.
The amount of an overpayment not subject to offset for any liability for tax or for past-due support shall be promptly refunded to the taxpayer.
(e)
Notice of offset.
The Internal Revenue Service shall notify the taxpayer in writing of the amount and date of the offset for past-due support and of the State to which this amount of past-due support has been paid.
(f)
Disposition of amounts collected.
Amounts collected under this section shall be transferred to a special account maintained by the Bureau of Government Financial Operations. The Internal Revenue Service shall advise the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his delegate on a monthly basis of the names and social security numbers of the taxpayers from whom the amounts of past-due support were collected, of the amounts collected from each taxpayer, and of the State on whose behalf each collection was made. After authorization by the Division of Finance of the Social Security Administration, the Bureau of Government Financial Operations of the Department of the Treasury shall pay to the participating States amounts equal to the amounts collected under this section.
(g)
Fee.
A refund offset fee in the amount of $17.00 per offset for taxable year 1981, or such greater or smaller amount as the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have agreed to be sufficient to reimburse the Internal Revenue Service for the full cost of the offset procedure, shall be billed and collected from the participating States by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his delegate and deposited in the United States Treasury and credited to the appropriation accounts of the Internal Revenue Service which bore all or part of the costs involved in making the collection.
(h) Effective dates. This section applies to refunds payable on or before
January 1, 1999. For the rules applicable after January 1, 1999, see 31 CFR part 285.
[T.D. 7895, 48 FR 22709, May 20, 1983, as amended by T.D. 8837, 64 FR 48548, Sept. 7, 1999]
§ 301.6402-6
Offset of past-due, legally enforceable debt against overpayment.
(a)
General rule.
(1) A Federal agency (as defined in section 6402(f)) that has entered into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service with regard to its participation in the tax refund offset program and that is owed a past-due, legally enforceable debt may refer the past-due, legally enforceable debt to the Internal Revenue Service to be collected by Federal tax refund offset. The Service shall, after making appropriate credits as provided by § 301.6402-3(a)(6) (i) and (ii), reduce the amount of any overpayment payable to a taxpayer by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to the agency and properly referred to the Service. This section does not apply to any debt subject to section 464 of the Social Security Act (past-due support).
(2)(i) This section applies to OASDI overpayments provided the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720A(f)(1) and (2) are met with respect to such overpayments.
(ii) For purposes of this section, “OASDI overpayment” means any overpayment of benefits made to an individual under title II of the Social Security Act.
(b)
Eligible Federal agencies.
(1) A Federal agency is eligible to participate in the tax refund offset program if the agency—
(i) Has promulgated temporary of final regulations under 31 U.S.C. 3720A, governing the operation of the Federal tax refund offset program in the agency;
(ii) Has promulgated temporary or final regulations under 31 U.S.C. 3716, governing the operation of the administrative offset program in the agency; and
(iii) Has promulgated temporary or final regulations under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a), governing the operation of the salary offset program in the agency (unless the agency has certified that, relying on the most current information reasonably available, it will not refer to the Service any names of present or former Federal employees or other persons whose debts are subject to offset under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)).
(2) An agency prohibited by Federal law from meeting any of the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (c) of this section shall notify the Service in writing of the specific legal impediment to meeting these requirements. This notification shall be made prior to entering into an agreement with the Service to participate in the tax refund offset program. The Service will determine in writing whether the agency is prohibited by Federal law from meeting any of the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (c) of this section. The Service will waive in writing any requirement that it determines the agency is prohibited by Federal law from meeting.
(c)
Past-due, legally enforceable debt eligible for refund offset.
For purposes of this section, a Federal agency may refer a past-due, legally enforceable debt to the Service for offset if—
(1) Except in the case of a judgment debt or any debts specifically exempt from this requirement (for example, debts referred by the Department of Education that were pending on or after April 9, 1991, and referred to the Service for offset before November 15, 1992), the debt is referred for offset within ten years after the agency's right of action accrues;
(2) The debt cannot be currently collected pursuant to the salary offset provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1);
(3) The debt is ineligible for administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) by reason of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(2), or cannot be currently collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) by the referring agency against amounts payable to the taxpayer by the referring agency;
(4) The agency has notified, or has made a reasonable attempt to notify, the taxpayer that the debt is past-due, and unless repaid within 60 days thereafter, will be referred to the Service for offset against an overpayment of tax;
(5) The agency has given the taxpayer at least 60 days to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not
past-due or legally enforceable, has considered any evidence presented by the taxpayer, and has determined that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable;
(6) The debt has been disclosed by the agency to a consumer reporting agency as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3711(f), unless the consumer reporting agency would be prohibited from reporting information concerning the debt by reason of 15 U.S.C. 1681c, or unless the amount of the debt does not exceed $100;
(7) The debt is at least $25; and
(8) In the case of an OASDI overpayment—
(i) The individual is not currently entitled to monthly insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act;
(ii) The notice describes conditions under which the Department of Health and Human Services is required to waive recovery of the overpayment, as provided under section 204(b) of the Social Security Act; and
(iii) If the taxpayer files for a waiver under section 204(b) of the Social Security Act within the 60-day notice period, the agency has considered the taxpayer's request.
(d)
Pre-offset notice and consideration of evidence.
(1) For purposes of paragraph (c)(4) of this section, an agency has made a reasonable attempt to notify the taxpayer if the agency uses the most recent address information obtained from the Service pursuant to section 6103(m) (2), (4), or (5) of the Code, unless the agency receives clear and concise notification from the taxpayer that notices from the agency are to be sent to an address different from the address obtained from the Service. Clear and concise notification means that the taxpayer has provided the agency with written notification including the taxpayer's name and identifying number (as defined in section 6109), the taxpayer's new address, and the taxpayer's intent to have agency notices sent to the new address.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(5) of this section, if the evidence presented by the taxpayer is considered by an agent of the agency, or other entities or persons acting on the agency's behalf, the taxpayer must be accorded at least 30 days from the date the agent or other entity or person determines that all or part of the debt is past-due and legally enforceable to request review by an officer or employee of the agency of any unresolved dispute. The agency must then notify the taxpayer of its decision.
(e)
Referral of past-due, legally enforceable debt.
A Federal agency must refer a past-due, legally enforceable debt to the Service in the time and manner prescribed by the Service. The referral must contain—
(1) The name and identifying number (as defined in section 6109) of the taxpayer who is responsible for the debt;
(2) The amount of such past-due and legally enforceable debt;
(3) The date on which the debt became past-due;
(4) The designation of the Federal agency or subagency referring the debt; and
(5) In the case of an OASDI overpayment, a certification by the Secretary of Health and Human Services designating whether the amount payable to the agency is to be deposited in either the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, but not both.
(f)
Correction of referral.
If, after referring a past-due, legally enforceable debt to the Service as provided by paragraph (e) of this section, an agency determines that an error has been made with respect to the information transmitted to the Service, or if an agency receives a payment or credits a payment to the account of a taxpayer referred to the Service for offset, the agency shall promptly notify the Service. The Service shall make the appropriate correction of its records. However, this paragraph (f) does not permit an agency to increase the amount of a past-due, legally enforceable debt or refer additional debtors to the Service for offset after an agency makes its original referral of debts for tax refund offset. The agency may refer additional debts to the Service for refund offset in subsequent tax refund offset years.
(g)
Priorities for offset.
(1) An overpayment shall be reduced first by the amount of an outstanding liability for any tax under section 6402(a); second,
by the amount of any past-due support assigned to a State under section 402(a)(26) or section 471(a)(17) of the Social Security Act which is to be offset under section 6402(c) and the regulations thereunder; third, by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a Federal agency under section 6402(d) and this section; and fourth, by the amount of any qualifying past-due support not assigned to a State which is to be offset under section 6402(c) and the regulations thereunder.
(2) If a taxpayer owes more than one past-due, legally enforceable debt to a Federal agency or agencies, the overpayment shall be credited against the debts in the order in which the debts accrued. A debt shall be considered to have accrued at the time at which the agency determines that the debt became past due.
(3) Reduction of the overpayment pursuant to section 6402 (a), (c), and (d) shall occur prior to crediting the overpayment to any future liability for an internal revenue tax. Any amount remaining after offset under section 6402 (a), (c), and (d) shall be refunded to the taxpayer, or applied to estimated tax, if elected by the taxpayer.
(h)
Post-offset notice to the taxpayer and the agency.
(1) The Service shall notify the taxpayer in writing of the amount and date of the offset for a past-due, legally enforceable debt and of the Federal agency to which this amount has been paid or credited. For joint returns, see paragraph (i) of this section.
(2) The Service shall advise each agency of the names, mailing addresses, and identifying numbers of the taxpayers from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and of the amounts collected from each taxpayer. If the refund from which an amount of past-due, legally enforceable debt is to be withheld is based upon a joint return, the Service shall notify the agency and furnish the names and addresses of each taxpayer filing the joint return.
(i)
Offset made with regard to refund based upon joint return.
(1) In the case of an offset from a refund based on a joint return, the Service shall issue a notice in writing to any person who may have filed a joint return with the taxpayer, including the amount and date of any offset and the steps which the non-debtor spouse may take in order to secure his or her proper share of the refund (unless the non-debtor spouse has already taken these steps prior to offset).
(2) If the person filing the joint return with the taxpayer owing the past-due, legally enforceable debt takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a refund from which an offset was made, the Service shall pay the person his or her share of the refund and shall deduct that amount from amounts payable to the agency.
(j)
Disposition of amounts collected.
Amounts collected under this section shall be transferred to a special account maintained by the Financial Management Service (FMS) for each Federal agency. If an erroneous payment is made to any agency, the Service shall deduct the amount of such payment from amounts payable to the agency.
(k)
Fees.
The agency shall enter into a separate agreement with the Service and FMS to reimburse the Service and FMS for the full cost of administering the tax refund offset program. The fees shall be deducted from amounts collected prior to disposition. The fees shall be deposited in the United States Treasury and credited to the appropriation accounts which bore all or part of the costs involved in administering the refund offset procedures.
(l)
Review of offset of refunds.
Any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to section 6402(c) or (d) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Service in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax. Any legal, equitable, or administrative action by any person seeking to recover the amount of the reduction of the overpayment must be taken against the Federal agency to which the amount of the reduction was paid. Any action which is otherwise available with respect to recoveries of overpayments of benefits under section 204 of the Social Security Act must be
taken against the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(m)
Access to and use of confidential tax information.
Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program are restricted by section 6103 of the Code. However, section 6103(l)(10) permits Federal officers and employees of agencies participating in the tax refund offset program to have access to and use of confidential tax information. Agencies receiving such information are subject to the safeguard, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of section 6103(p)(4) and the regulations thereunder. The agency shall inform its officers and employees who access or use confidential tax information of the restrictions and penalties under the Internal Revenue Code for misuse of confidential tax information.
(n)
Effective dates.
This section applies to refunds payable under section 6402 after April 15, 1992, and on or before January 1, 1998. For the rules applicable after January 1, 1998, see 31 CFR part 285.
[T.D. 8413, 57 FR 13038, Apr. 15, 1992; 57 FR 36691, Aug. 14, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8837, 64 FR 48548, Sept. 7, 1999]
§ 301.6402-7
Claims for refund and applications for tentative carryback adjustments involving consolidated groups that include insolvent financial institutions.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Overview.
Section 6402(i) authorizes the Secretary to issue regulations providing for the payment of a refund directly to the statutory or court-appointed fiduciary of an insolvent corporation that was a subsidiary in a consolidated group, to the extent the Secretary determines that the refund is attributable to losses or credits of the insolvent corporation. This section provides rules for the payment of refunds and tentative carryback adjustments to the fiduciary of an insolvent financial institution that was a subsidiary in a consolidated group.
(2)
Notice.
This section provides notice to the common parent of a consolidated group of which an insolvent financial institution is or was a member that—
(i) The fiduciary for the institution may, in addition to the common parent, act as agent for the group in certain matters relating to the tax liability of the group in the year in which a loss arose and for the year to which a claim for refund or application for tentative carryback adjustment relates; and
(ii) The Internal Revenue Service may deal directly with the common parent or the fiduciary (or both) as agent for the group to the extent provided in this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(1)
Carryback year group.
A carryback year group is a consolidated group of which a corporation that is or becomes an insolvent financial institution is a member during a consolidated carryback year.
(2)
Consolidated carryback year.
A consolidated carryback year is a consolidated return year to which a loss arising in a loss year is carried back.
(3)
Fiduciary.
A fiduciary is—
(i) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(ii) The Resolution Trust Corporation; or
(iii) Any other entity established by federal law, or a federal agency, that is identified by the Commissioner in a revenue ruling or revenue procedure as a fiduciary for purposes of this section;
in its capacity as an authorized receiver or conservator of an insolvent financial institution.
(4)
Insolvent financial institution.
An insolvent financial institution (an institution) is a bank or domestic building and loan association for which the fiduciary is authorized to act as a receiver or conservator—
(i) On the ground that the institution is insolvent within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 191, 12 U.S.C. 1821(c)(5)(A), 12 U.S.C. 1464(d)(2)(A)(i), or 12 U.S.C. 1464(d)(2)(C)(i) or any applicable state law (or any successor statute which adopts a substantially similar standard); or
(ii) On grounds other than insolvency, provided that the institution is insolvent within the meaning of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section at any
time after commencement of the conservatorship or receivership.
A reference to an institution under these regulations includes, as the context requires, a reference to predecessors and successors of the institution.
(5)
Loss year.
A loss year is a taxable year for which any member or former member of the carryback year group claims a loss that may be carried back.
(6)
Loss year group.
A loss year group is a consolidated group of which a corporation that is or becomes an insolvent financial institution is a member during a loss year.
(7)
Procedure effective date.
The procedure effective date is the day on which the Internal Revenue Service has processed the notice described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the extent necessary for all Internal Revenue Service Centers to have access to information indicating that—
(i) Appropriate notice to the Internal Revenue Service has been filed; and
(ii) Payments with respect to losses of an institution are to be paid in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
(8)
Definitions in § 1.1502-1.
Unless otherwise provided, the definitions contained in § 1.1502-1 of this chapter apply in this section.
(c)
Deemed agency status of fiduciary
—(1)
In general.
Notwithstanding the general treatment of a common parent as the agent of a group under §§ 1.1502-77 and 1.1502-78 of this chapter, if the fiduciary satisfies the notice requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the fiduciary may also be deemed to be an agent under §§ 1.1502-77 and 1.1502-78 of this chapter—
(i) Of the loss year group (if any) for purposes of filing a consolidated return for the loss year;
(ii) Of the carryback year group for purposes of filing a claim for refund or an application for a tentative carryback adjustment for the consolidated carryback year under paragraph (e) of this section and receiving payments of any refund or tentative carryback adjustment under paragraph (g) of this section; and
(iii) Of the carryback year group, the loss year group or any other group of which the institution is a member for any matter pertaining to the determination of the refund or tentative carryback adjustment, but only to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Limitation.
The fiduciary may act as an agent for matters described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section only to the extent—
(i) Authorized by the district director, in his/her sole discretion, after receiving a written request from the fiduciary; or
(ii) Requested by the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(d)
Notice requirements
—(1)
Notice to the Internal Revenue Service.
To satisfy the notice requirement of this paragraph (d)(1), the fiduciary must file Form 56-F, Notice Concerning Fiduciary Relationship of Financial Institution, with the Internal Revenue Service Center indicated on the form. However, in its sole discretion, the Internal Revenue Service may treat notice to it in any other manner as satisfying the notice requirement under this paragraph (d)(1).
(2)
Notice to the common parent
—(i)
Form 56-F.
The fiduciary must send a copy of the form 56-F filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center or any other notice provided to the Service under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the common parent of the loss year group (if any) and the common parent of all carryback year groups (if different from the loss year group).
(ii)
Claim for refund and loss year return.
If a claim for refund is filed by the fiduciary in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the fiduciary must provide a copy of the claim for refund to the common parent of the carryback year group. If a loss year return is filed by the fiduciary in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the fiduciary must provide a copy of the loss year return to the common parent of the loss year group (if any).
(iii)
Additional information.
The fiduciary must provide to the affected common parent a copy of the request for agency status referred to in paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, and a copy of any additional information submitted to the Internal Revenue
Service as agent under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(e)
Filing requirements of the fiduciary
—(1)
Claim for refund by the fiduciary.
If the fiduciary accepts a claim for refund filed by the common parent, the fiduciary may claim a refund under this section by filing a copy of the common parent's claim for refund. If no claim for refund is filed by the common parent for the consolidated carryback year or the fiduciary does not accept a claim for refund filed by the common parent, the fiduciary may claim a refund under this section by filing its own claim for refund under section 6402, based on all information pertaining to the institution and all information pertaining to other members of the carryback year group and the loss year group to which the fiduciary has reasonable access. Any claim for refund filed by the fiduciary under this paragraph (e)(1) must contain the title “Claim for refund under section 6402(i) of the Code” at the top of the first page of the claim, and the following must be attached to the claim:
(i) The name and employer identification number of the institution that was a member of the carryback year group;
(ii) The name of the fiduciary;
(iii) A schedule demonstrating that the amount of the refund claimed by the fiduciary is determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section;
(iv) A representation that the institution is an insolvent financial institution as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(v) A representation that the fiduciary has satisfied the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section; and
(vi) A statement executed by an authorized representative of the fiduciary and any paid preparer utilized by the fiduciary that provides “Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined the items listed in § 301.6402-7T(e)(1)(i) through (v), including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, they are true, correct, and complete. Declaration of preparer (other than fiduciary) is based on all information of which the preparer has any knowledge.”
(2)
Application for tentative carryback adjustment pursuant to section 6411.
Notwithstanding section 6411 and § 1.1502-78 of this chapter, an application for a tentative carryback adjustment must be signed by both the common parent of the carryback year group and the fiduciary if the payment with respect to the tentative carryback adjustment is not made before the procedure effective date (whether or not the application was filed before the procedure effective date). Any application for a tentative carryback adjustment filed under this paragraph (e)(2) must contain the title “Application for tentative carryback adjustment under section 6402(i) of the Code” at the top of the first page of the application. In addition, the following must be attached to the application:
(i) The name and employer identification number of the institution that was a member of the carryback year group;
(ii) The name of the fiduciary;
(iii) A schedule demonstrating that the amount claimed by the fiduciary is determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section;
(iv) A representation that the institution is an insolvent financial institution as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(v) A representation that the fiduciary has satisfied the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Loss year return by the fiduciary.
If the institution is a member of a loss year group, and either the common parent does not file a loss year return or the fiduciary does not accept the loss year return filed by the common parent, the fiduciary may file a loss year return with respect to the loss year group. A loss year return can only be filed by the fiduciary in conjunction with the filing of a claim for refund under paragraph (e)(1).The return must be based on all information pertaining to the institution and all information pertaining to other members to which the fiduciary has reasonable access. Any return filed by the fiduciary under this paragraph (e)(3) must contain the title “Loss year return under section 6402(i) of the Code” at the top of the first page of the return, and the following must be attached to the return:
(i) The name and employer identification number of the institution that is a member of the loss year group;
(ii) The name of the fiduciary;
(iii) A representation that the institution is an insolvent financial institution as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(iv) A representation that the fiduciary has satisfied the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4)
Additional information.
If the fiduciary files additional information under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, the fiduciary must attach a representation that it has satisfied the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(5)
Election to waiver carryback.
Any election filed after December 30, 1991, by the common parent of a loss year group under section 172(b)(3) to relinquish the entire carryback period with respect to a consolidated net operating loss arising in a loss year is not effective with respect to the portion of the consolidated net operating loss attributable to a subsidiary that is an institution. Instead, the fiduciary may make the election under section 172(b)(3) with respect to the portion attributable to the institution after the notice described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is filed. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(5), the portion attributable to an institution is determined under the principles of paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(f)
Processing and reconciliation of information by the Internal Revenue Service
—(1)
Loss year return if the insolvent financial institution is a member of a loss year group.
The Internal Revenue Service may, in its sole discretion, adjust a loss year return filed by the common parent of a loss year group to take into account information filed by the fiduciary in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, or accept or adjust a loss year return for the loss year group filed by the fiduciary. Nothing in this section relieves the common parent of a loss year group of its duty to file a consolidated return taking into account an institution's items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit for any taxable year, or obligates the Internal Revenue Service to accept a return filed by the fiduciary as the return of the loss year group.
(2)
Claim for refund with respect to consolidated carryback year.
The Internal Revenue Service may, in its sole discretion, adjust a claim for refund filed by the common parent of a carryback year group to take into account information filed by the fiduciary in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, or accept or adjust a claim for refund for the carryback year group filed by the fiduciary. Nothing in this section obligates the Internal Revenue Service to pay a claim for refund, or to accept a claim for refund, filed by the fiduciary as a claim for refund for the carryback year group.
(3)
Additional information.
In determining the amount of any refund that may be paid to the fiduciary under paragraph (g) of this section, the Internal Revenue Service may, in its sole discretion, take into account any information that the Internal Revenue Service deems relevant and may require the fiduciary to file any additional information the Internal Revenue Service deems appropriate.
(g)
Payment of a refund or a tentative carryback adjustment to fiduciary
—(1)
In general.
If a claim for refund or an application for a tentative carryback adjustment is filed for the consolidated carryback year in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, the Internal Revenue Service may, in its sole discretion, pay to the fiduciary all or any portion of the refund or tentative carryback adjustment that the Internal Revenue Service determines under this section to be attributable to the net operating losses of the institution. Nothing in this section obligates the Internal Revenue Service to pay to the fiduciary all or any portion of a claim for refund or application for tentative carryback adjustment.
(2)
Portion of refund or tentative carryback adjustment attributable to the net operating loss of an insolvent financial institution
—(i)
In general.
The portion of a refund or tentative carryback adjustment attributable to a net operating loss of an institution that is carried to a consolidated carryback year is determined based on the absorption, as described in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of
this section, of the institution's net operating loss carried to the consolidated carryback year.
(ii)
Member's net operating loss.
If the loss year is a consolidated return year, references in this section to the net operating loss of a member of the loss year group is a reference to the portion of the loss year group's consolidated net operating loss attributable to the member. The consolidated net operating loss for a taxable year that is attributable to a member is determined by a fraction, the numerator of which is the separate net operating loss of the member for the year of the loss and the denominator of which is the sum of the separate net operating losses for that year of all members having such losses. For this purpose, the separate net operating loss of a member is determined by computing the consolidated net operating loss by taking into account only the member's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss, including the member's losses and deductions actually absorbed by the group in the taxable year (whether or not absorbed by the member).
(iii)
Absorption of net operating losses.
The absorption of net operating losses generally is determined under applicable principles of the Code and regulations, including the principles of section 172 and § 1.1502-21(b) of this chapter. Notwithstanding any contrary rule or principle of the Code or regulations, if an institution and another member of the carryback year group have net operating losses that arise in taxable years ending on the same date and are carried to the same consolidated carryback year, the carryback year group's consolidated taxable income for that year is treated as offset first by the loss attributable to the institution to the extent thereof.
(3)
Examples.
For purposes of the examples in this section, all groups file consolidated returns, all corporations have calendar taxable years, the facts set forth the only corporate activity, the fiduciary has met the notice and filing requirements of this section, and the common parent has filed a return for the loss year and a claim for refund. The principles of this paragraph (g) are illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1. Absorption of net operating losses,
(a) P owns all the stock of S1, an insolvent financial institution, and S2, a corporation that is not a financial institution. For Year 1, P, S1, and S2 each have $50 of income, and the P group's consolidated taxable income is $150. On May 31 of Year 2, S1 becomes insolvent and is placed in receivership under the supervision of a fiduciary. For Year 2, the P group has a consolidated net operating loss of $200, of which $100 is attributable to S1 and $100 is attributable to S2.
(b) Under paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, the $150 of consolidated taxable income for Year 1 is offset first by the $100 portion of the consolidated net operating loss for Year 2 attributable to S1. The remaining $50 is treated as offset by $50 of the $100 of consolidated net operating loss attributable to S2. Thus, the refund attributable to $100 of the loss may be payable to the fiduciary and the refund attributable to $50 of the loss may be payable to P. The remaining $50 consolidated net operating loss, available to be carried forward, is entirely attributable to S2.

# Example 2. Separate return net operating loss,
The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except that S1 left the P group at the end of Year 1 and its $100 of loss in Year 2 is incurred in a separate return limitation year. Under paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, the generally applicable absorption principles of section 172 and § 1.1502-21 of this chapter apply. Although S1 and S2 are carrying back losses to Year 1 from taxable years ending on the same date (Year 2), S1's loss is subject to a $50 limitation under § 1.1502-21(c) of this chapter and only $50 of S1's loss is absorbed before S2's net operating loss. Therefore, the refund attributable to $50 of the net operating loss of S1 may be payable to the fiduciary, and the refund attributable to $100 of the net operating loss of S2 may be payable to P. The remaining $50 net operating loss of S1 is available to be carried forward.
(4)
Refund or tentative carryback adjustment allocation agreement.
The determination of the portion of any refund or tentative carryback adjustment payable to the fiduciary under this paragraph (g) shall be made without regard to—
(i) Any agreement among the members of the consolidated group; or
(ii) Whether the fiduciary is otherwise entitled to any portion of the refund or tentative carryback adjustment under applicable law.
(h)
Credits, net capital losses, and subgroups
—(1)
Credits and net capital losses
—(i)
In general.
The principles of this section also apply to credits and
net capital losses, with appropriate adjustments to reflect differences between the rules applicable to net operating losses and those applicable to credits and net capital losses.
(ii)
Example.
The principles of this paragraph (h)(1) are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
Net capital loss. (a) P owns all the stock of S1, an insolvent financial institution, and S2, a corporation that is not a financial institution. For Year 1, P, S1, and S2 each have $50 of capital gain, and the P group's consolidated capital gain net income is $150. On May 31 of Year 2, S1 becomes insolvent and is placed in receivership under the supervision of a fiduciary. For Year 2, the P group has a consolidated net operating loss of $100 that is attributable to S1, and a consolidated net capital loss of $100 that is attributable to S2.
(b) Under paragraphs (g)(2)(iii) and (h)(1) of this section, the generally applicable absorption principles of sections 172 and 1212 and §§ 1.1502-21(b) and 1.1502-22(b) of this chapter apply. Consequently, S2's capital loss is absorbed before S1's net operating loss. Therefore, the $150 of consolidated capital gain net income is offset first by S2's $100 capital loss and the remaining $50 by S1's net operating loss. The refund attributable to $50 of the net operating loss may be payable to the fiduciary, and the refund attributable to the $100 of capital loss may be payable to P. The remaining $50 consolidated net operating loss available to be carried forward is entirely attributable to S1.
(2)
Insolvent financial institution subgroup
—(i)
In general.
The principles of this section apply to all members included in an insolvent financial institution subgroup with appropriate adjustments to reflect differences resulting from the application to more than one corporation in a group. Unless otherwise determined by the Internal Revenue Service in its sole discretion, an insolvent financial institution subgroup is composed of an insolvent financial institution and those other members of a loss year group that, at any time during the conservatorship or receivership of the institution, bear the same relationship to the institution that the members of a group bear to their common parent under section 1504(a)(1).
(ii)
Examples.
The principles of this paragraph (h)(2) are illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1.
Loss of other subgroup members. (a) S1 is a financial institution, and P, S2, and S3 are not financial institutions. P owns all the stock of S1, S1 owns all the stock of S2, and the stock of S3 is owned 20 percent by S2 and 80 percent by P. For Year 1, P, S1, and S2 each have $100 of income, S3 has no income or loss, and the P group's consolidated taxable income is $300. On May 31 of Year 2, S1 becomes insolvent and is placed in receivership under the supervision of a fiduciary. For Year 2, the P group has a consolidated net operating loss of $300, of which $200 is attributable to S1 and $100 is attributable to S2.
(b) S1 and S2 compose a subgroup because S2 bears the same relationship to S1 that the member of a group bears to its common parent under section 1504(a). S3 is not included in the subgroup because it is not connected to S1 through 80 percent stock ownership as described in section 1504(a).
(c) Because S1 and S2 are members of a subgroup, a claim for refund under paragraph (e) of this section must be based on the aggregate consolidated net operating loss of both S1 and S2. Under paragraph (e)(5) of this section, P may not elect under section 172(b)(3) to relinquish the entire carryback period with respect to the $300 of consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 2 that is attributable to S1 and S2. Any refund payable under paragraph (g)(1) of this section with respect to the $300 loss of S1 and S2 may be paid by the Internal Revenue Service directly to the fiduciary.

# Example 2. Income of other subgroup members,
(a) The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except that S2 has $100 of income in Year 2 rather than $100 of loss. Any refund payable under paragraph (g) of this section with respect to the loss of S1 in Year 2 must take into account the income of S2, and therefore the refund will be based on a $100 loss of the subgroup.
(b) Although P and S3 are not members included in the subgroup, the loss year return and the claim for refund filed by the fiduciary under paragraph (e) of this section must be completed based on all information to which the fiduciary has reasonable access. Under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if P does not file a loss year return that is accepted by S1, and S1 has reasonable access to information indicating that P and S3 have income in Year 2, S1 must take that income into account in filing the P group's return for Year 2 and reduce the amount of S1's loss that may be carried to Year 1 accordingly. However, if P or S3 has a loss in Year 2, any refund attributable to that loss will not be paid to the fiduciary.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Determination of ownership.
This section determines the party to whom
a refund or tentative carryback adjustment will be paid but is not determinative of ownership of any such amount among current or former members of a consolidated group (including the institution).
(k)
Liability of the Government.
Any refund or tentative carryback adjustment paid to the fiduciary discharges any liability of the Government to the same extent as payment to the common parent under § 1.1502-77 or § 1.1502-78 of this chapter. Furthermore, any refund or tentative carryback adjustment paid to the fiduciary is considered a payment to all members of the carryback year group. Any determination made by the Internal Revenue Service under this section to pay a refund or tentative carryback adjustment to a fiduciary or the common parent may not be challenged by the common parent, any member of the group, or the fiduciary.
(l)
Effective dates.
This section applies to refunds and tentative carryback adjustments paid after December 30, 1991.
[T.D. 8387, 56 FR 67487, Dec. 31, 1991; 57 FR 6073, Feb. 20, 1992. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 8446, 57 FR 53034, Nov. 6, 1992; T.D. 8677, 61 FR 33325, June 27, 1996; T.D. 8823, 64 FR 36101, July 2, 1999; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106882, Dec. 30, 2024]
§ 301.6403-1
Overpayment of installment.
If any installment of tax is overpaid, the overpayment shall first be applied against any outstanding installments of such tax. If the overpayment exceeds the correct amount of tax due, the overpayment shall be credited or refunded as provided in section 6402 and §§ 301.6402-1 to 301.6402-4, inclusive.
§ 301.6404-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the paragraphs contained in §§ 301.6404-1 through 301.6404-4.

# § 301.6404-1 Abatements.

# § 301.6404-2T Definition of ministerial act (temporary).
(a) In general.
(b) Ministerial act.
(1) Definition.
(2) Examples.
(c) Effective date.

# § 301.6404-3 Abatement of penalty or addition to tax attributable to erroneous written advice of the Internal Revenue Service.
(a) General rule.
(b) Requirements.
(1) In general.
(2) Advice was reasonably relied upon.
(i) In general.
(ii) Advice relating to a tax return.
(iii) Amended returns.
(iv) Advice not related to a tax return.
(v) Period of reliance.
(3) Advice was in response to written request.
(4) Taxpayer's information must be adequate and accurate.
(c) Definitions.
(1) Advice.
(2) Penalty and addition to tax.
(d) Procedures for abatement.
(e) Period for requesting abatement.
(f) Examples.
(g) Effective date.

# § 301.6404-4 Suspension of interest and certain penalties when the Internal Revenue Service does not timely contact the taxpayer.
(a) Suspension.
(1) In general.
(2) Treatment of amended returns and other documents.
(i) Amended returns filed on or after December 21, 2005, that show an increase in tax liability.
(ii) Amended returns that show a decrease in tax liability.
(iii) Amended returns and other documents as notice.
(iv) Joint return after filing separate return.
(3) Separate application.
(4) Duration of suspension period.
(5) Certain notices provided on or after November 26, 2007.
(i) Eighteen-month period has closed.
(ii) All other cases.
(6) Examples.
(7) Notice of liability and the basis for the liability.
(i) In general.
(ii) Tax attributable to TEFRA partnership items.
(iii) Examples.
(8) Providing notice.
(i) In general.
(ii) Providing notice in TEFRA partnership proceedings.
(b) Exceptions.
(1) Failure to file tax return or to pay tax.
(2) Fraud.
(3) Tax shown on return.
(4) Gross misstatement.
(i) Description.
(ii) Effect of gross misstatement.
(5) Listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Special rule for certain listed or undisclosed reportable transactions.
(A) Participant in a settlement initiative.
(
1
) Participant in a settlement initiative who as of January 23, 2006, had not reached agreement with the IRS.
(
2
) Participant in a settlement initiative who, as of January 23, 2006, had reached agreement with the IRS.
(B) Taxpayer acting in good faith.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Presumption.
(
3
) Examples.
(C) Closed transactions.
(c) Special rules.
(1) Tentative carryback and refund adjustments.
(2) Election under section 183(e).
(i) In general.
(ii) Example.
(d) Effective/applicability date.
[T.D. 8299, 55 FR 14245, Apr. 17, 1990, as amended by T.D. 9488, 75 FR 33993, June 16, 2010; T.D. 9545, 76 FR 52261, Aug. 22, 2011]
§ 301.6404-1
Abatements.
(a) The district director or the director of the regional service center may abate any assessment, or unpaid portion thereof, if the assessment is in excess of the correct tax liability, if the assessment is made subsequent to the expiration of the period of limitations applicable thereto, or if the assessment has been erroneously or illegally made.
(b) No claim for abatement may be filed with respect to income, estate, or gift tax.
(c) Except in case of income, estate, or gift tax, if more than the correct amount of tax, interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty is assessed but not paid to the district director, the person against whom the assessment is made may file a claim for abatement of such overassessment. Each claim for abatement under this section shall be made on Form 843. In the case of a claim filed prior to April 15, 1968, the claim shall be filed in the office of the internal revenue officer by whom the tax was assessed or with the assistant regional Commissioner (alcohol, tobacco, and firearms) where the regulations respecting the particular tax to which the claim relates specifically require the claim to be filed with that officer. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents), in the case of a claim filed after April 14, 1968, the claim shall be filed (1) with the Director of International Operations if the tax was assessed by him, or (2) with the assistant regional Commissioner (alcohol, tobacco, and firearms) where the regulations respecting the particular tax to which the claim relates specifically require the claim to be filed with that officer; otherwise, the claim shall be filed with the service center serving the internal revenue district in which the tax was assessed. Form 843 shall be made in accordance with the instructions relating to such form.
(d) The Commissioner may issue uniform instructions to district directors authorizing them, to the extent permitted in such instructions, to abate amounts the collection of which is not warranted because of the administration and collection costs.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7008, 34 FR 3673, Mar. 1, 1969; T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12794, June 29, 1972; T.D. ATF-33, 41 FR 44038, Oct. 6, 1976]
§ 301.6404-2
Abatement of interest.
(a)
In general.
(1) Section 6404(e)(1) provides that the Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate the assessment of all or any part of interest on any—
(i) Deficiency (as defined in section 6211(a), relating to income, estate, gift, generation-skipping, and certain excise taxes) attributable in whole or in part to any unreasonable error or delay by an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (acting in an official capacity) in performing a ministerial or managerial act; or
(ii) Payment of any tax described in section 6212(a) (relating to income, estate, gift, generation-skipping, and certain excise taxes) to the extent that any unreasonable error or delay in payment is attributable to an officer or employee of the IRS (acting in an official capacity) being erroneous or dilatory in performing a ministerial or managerial act.
(2) An error or delay in performing a ministerial or managerial act will be taken into account only if no significant aspect of the error or delay is attributable to the taxpayer involved or to a person related to the taxpayer within the meaning of section 267(b) or
section 707(b)(1). Moreover, an error or delay in performing a ministerial or managerial act will be taken into account only if it occurs after the IRS has contacted the taxpayer in writing with respect to the deficiency or payment. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), no significant aspect of the error or delay is attributable to the taxpayer merely because the taxpayer consents to extend the period of limitations.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Managerial act
means an administrative act that occurs during the processing of a taxpayer's case involving the temporary or permanent loss of records or the exercise of judgment or discretion relating to management of personnel. A decision concerning the proper application of federal tax law (or other federal or state law) is not a managerial act. Further, a general administrative decision, such as the IRS's decision on how to organize the processing of tax returns or its delay in implementing an improved computer system, is not a managerial act for which interest can be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Ministerial act
means a procedural or mechanical act that does not involve the exercise of judgment or discretion, and that occurs during the processing of a taxpayer's case after all prerequisites to the act, such as conferences and review by supervisors, have taken place. A decision concerning the proper application of federal tax law (or other federal or state law) is not a ministerial act.
(c)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section. Unless otherwise stated, for purposes of the examples, no significant aspect of any error or delay is attributable to the taxpayer, and the IRS has contacted the taxpayer in writing with respect to the deficiency or payment. The examples are as follows:

# Example 1.
A taxpayer moves from one state to another before the IRS selects the taxpayer's income tax return for examination. A letter explaining that the return has been selected for examination is sent to the taxpayer's old address and then forwarded to the new address. The taxpayer timely responds, asking that the audit be transferred to the IRS's district office that is nearest the new address. The group manager timely approves the request. After the request for transfer has been approved, the transfer of the case is a ministerial act. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay in transferring the case.

# Example 2.
An examination of a taxpayer's income tax return reveals a deficiency with respect to which a notice of deficiency will be issued. The taxpayer and the IRS identify all agreed and unagreed issues, the notice is prepared and reviewed (including review by District Counsel, if necessary), and any other relevant prerequisites are completed. The issuance of the notice of deficiency is a ministerial act. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay in issuing the notice.

# Example 3.
A revenue agent is sent to a training course for an extended period of time, and the agent's supervisor decides not to reassign the agent's cases. During the training course, no work is done on the cases assigned to the agent. The decision to send the revenue agent to the training course and the decision not to reassign the agent's cases are not ministerial acts; however, both decisions are managerial acts. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay resulting from these decisions.

# Example 4.
A taxpayer appears for an office audit and submits all necessary documentation and information. The auditor tells the taxpayer that the taxpayer will receive a copy of the audit report. However, before the report is prepared, the auditor is permanently reassigned to another group. An extended period of time passes before the auditor's cases are reassigned. The decision to reassign the auditor and the decision not to reassign the auditor's cases are not ministerial acts; however, they are managerial acts. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay resulting from these decisions.

# Example 5.
A taxpayer is notified that the IRS intends to audit the taxpayer's income tax return. The agent assigned to the case is granted sick leave for an extended period of time, and the taxpayer's case is not reassigned. The decision to grant sick leave and the decision not to reassign the taxpayer's case to another agent are not ministerial acts; however, they are managerial acts. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay caused by these decisions.

# Example 6.
A revenue agent has completed an examination of the income tax return of a taxpayer. There are issues that are not agreed upon between the taxpayer and the
IRS. Before the notice of deficiency is prepared and reviewed, a clerical employee misplaces the taxpayer's case file. The act of misplacing the case file is a managerial act. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay resulting from the file being misplaced.

# Example 7.
A taxpayer invests in a tax shelter and reports a loss from the tax shelter on the taxpayer's income tax return. IRS personnel conduct an extensive examination of the tax shelter, and the processing of the taxpayer's case is delayed because of that examination. The decision to delay the processing of the taxpayer's case until the completion of the examination of the tax shelter is a decision on how to organize the processing of tax returns. This is a general administrative decision. Consequently, interest attributable to a delay caused by this decision cannot be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.

# Example 8.
A taxpayer claims a loss on the taxpayer's income tax return and is notified that the IRS intends to examine the return. However, a decision is made not to commence the examination of the taxpayer's return until the processing of another return, for which the statute of limitations is about to expire, is completed. The decision on how to prioritize the processing of returns based on the expiration of the statute of limitations is a general administrative decision. Consequently, interest attributable to a delay caused by this decision cannot be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.

# Example 9.
During the examination of an income tax return, there is disagreement between the taxpayer and the revenue agent regarding certain itemized deductions claimed by the taxpayer on the return. To resolve the issue, advice is requested in a timely manner from the Office of Chief Counsel on a substantive issue of federal tax law. The decision to request advice is a decision concerning the proper application of federal tax law; it is neither a ministerial nor a managerial act. Consequently, interest attributable to a delay resulting from the decision to request advice cannot be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.

# Example 10.
The facts are the same as in
Example 9
except the attorney who is assigned to respond to the request for advice is granted leave for an extended period of time. The case is not reassigned during the attorney's absence. The decision to grant leave and the decision not to reassign the taxpayer's case to another attorney are not ministerial acts; however, they are managerial acts. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay caused by these decisions.

# Example 11.
A taxpayer contacts an IRS employee and requests information with respect to the amount due to satisfy the taxpayer's income tax liability for a particular taxable year. Because the employee fails to access the most recent data, the employee gives the taxpayer an incorrect amount due. As a result, the taxpayer pays less than the amount required to satisfy the tax liability. Accessing the most recent data is a ministerial act. The Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable error or delay arising from giving the taxpayer an incorrect amount due to satisfy the taxpayer's income tax liability.

# Example 12.
A taxpayer contacts an IRS employee and requests information with respect to the amount due to satisfy the taxpayer's income tax liability for a particular taxable year. To determine the current amount due, the employee must interpret complex provisions of federal tax law involving net operating loss carrybacks and foreign tax credits. Because the employee incorrectly interprets these provisions, the employee gives the taxpayer an incorrect amount due. As a result, the taxpayer pays less than the amount required to satisfy the tax liability. Interpreting complex provisions of federal tax law is neither a ministerial nor a managerial act. Consequently, interest attributable to an error or delay arising from giving the taxpayer an incorrect amount due to satisfy the taxpayer's income tax liability in this situation cannot be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.

# Example 13.
A taxpayer moves from one state to another after the IRS has undertaken an examination of the taxpayer's income tax return. The taxpayer asks that the audit be transferred to the IRS's district office that is nearest the new address. The group manager approves the request, and the case is transferred. Thereafter, the taxpayer moves to yet another state, and once again asks that the audit be transferred to the IRS's district office that is nearest that new address. The group manager approves the request, and the case is again transferred. The agent then assigned to the case is granted sick leave for an extended period of time, and the taxpayer's case is not reassigned. The taxpayer's repeated moves result in a delay in the completion of the examination. Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, interest attributable to this delay cannot be abated because a significant aspect of this delay is attributable to the taxpayer. However, as in
Example 5,
the Commissioner may (in the Commissioner's discretion) abate interest attributable to any unreasonable delay caused by the managerial decisions to grant sick leave and not to reassign the taxpayer's case to another agent.
(d)
Effective dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of
this section, the provisions of this section apply to interest accruing with respect to deficiencies or payments of any tax described in section 6212(a) for taxable years beginning after July 30, 1996.
(2)
Special rules
—(i)
Estate tax.
The provisions of this section apply to interest accruing with respect to deficiencies or payments of—
(A) Estate tax imposed under section 2001 on estates of decedents dying after July 30, 1996;
(B) The additional estate tax imposed under sections 2032A(c) and 2056A(b)(1)(B) in the case of taxable events occurring after July 30, 1996; and
(C) The additional estate tax imposed under section 2056A(b)(1)(A) in the case of taxable events occurring after December 31, 1996.
(ii)
Gift tax.
The provisions of this section apply to interest accruing with respect to deficiencies or payments of gift tax imposed under chapter 12 on gifts made after December 31, 1996.
(iii)
Generation-skipping transfer tax.
The provisions of this section apply to interest accruing with respect to deficiencies or payments of generation-skipping transfer tax imposed under chapter 13—
(A) On direct skips occurring at death, if the transferor dies after July 30, 1996; and
(B) On inter vivos direct skips, and all taxable terminations and taxable distributions occurring after December 31, 1996.
[T.D. 8789, 63 FR 70013, Dec. 18, 1998]
§ 301.6404-3
Abatement of penalty or addition to tax attributable to erroneous written advice of the Internal Revenue Service.
(a)
General rule.
Any portion of any penalty or addition to tax that is attributable to erroneous advice furnished to the taxpayer in writing by an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service (Service), acting in his or her official capacity, shall be abated, provided the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(b)
Requirements
—(1)
In general.
Paragraph (a) of this section shall apply only if—
(i) The written advice was reasonably relied upon by the taxpayer;
(ii) The advice was issued in response to a specific written request for advice by the taxpayer; and
(iii) The taxpayer requesting advice provided adequate and accurate information.
(2)
Advice was reasonably relied upon
—(i)
In general.
The written advice from the Service must have been reasonably relied upon by the taxpayer in order for any penalty to be abated under paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Advice relating to a tax return.
In the case of written advice from the Service that relates to an item included on a federal tax return of a taxpayer, if such advice is received by the taxpayer subsequent to the date on which the taxpayer filed such return, the taxpayer shall not be considered to have reasonably relied upon such written advice for purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iii)
Amended returns.
If a taxpayer files an amended federal tax return that conforms with written advice received by the taxpayer from the Service, the taxpayer will be considered to have reasonably relied upon the advice for purposes of the position set forth in the amended return.
(iv)
Advice not related to a tax return.
In the case of written advice that does not relate to an item included on a federal tax return (for example, the payment of estimated taxes), if such written advice is received by the taxpayer subsequent to the act or omission of the taxpayer that is the basis for the penalty or addition of tax, then the taxpayer shall not be considered to have reasonably relied upon such written advice for purposes of this section.
(v)
Period of reliance.
If the written advice received by the taxpayer relates to a continuing action or series of actions, the taxpayer may rely on that advice until the taxpayer is put on notice that the advice is no longer consistent with Service position and, thus, no longer valid. For purposes of this section, the taxpayer will be put on notice that written advice is no longer valid if the taxpayer receives correspondence from the Service stating that the advice no longer represents Service position. Further, any of the following events, occurring subsequent
to the issuance of the advice, that set forth a position that is inconsistent with the written advice received from the Service shall be deemed to put the taxpayer on notice that the advice is no longer valid—
(A) Enactment of legislation or ratification of a tax treaty;
(B) A decision of the United States Supreme Court;
(C) The issuance of temporary or final regulations; or
(D) The issuance of a revenue ruling, a revenue procedure, or other statement published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
(3)
Advice was in response to written request.
No abatement under paragraph (a) of this section shall be allowed unless the penalty or addition to tax is attributable to advice issued in response to a specific written request for advice by the taxpayer. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a written request from a representative of the taxpayer shall be considered a written request by the taxpayer only if—
(i) The taxpayer's representative is an attorney, a certified public accountant, an enrolled agent, an enrolled actuary, or any other person permitted to represent the taxpayer before the Service and who is not disbarred or suspended from practice before the Service; and
(ii) The written request for advice either is accompanied by a power of attorney that is signed by the taxpayer and that authorizes the representative to represent the taxpayer for purposes of the request, or such a power of attorney is currently on file with the Service.
(4)
Taxpayer's information must be adequate and accurate.
No abatement under paragraph (a) of this section shall be allowed with respect to any portion of any penalty or addition to tax that resulted because the taxpayer requesting the advice did not provide the Service with adequate and accurate information. The Service has no obligation to verify or correct the taxpayer's submitted information.
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Advice.
For purposes of section 6404(f) and the regulations thereunder, a written response issued to a taxpayer by an officer or employee of the Service shall constitute “advice” if, and only if, the response applies the tax laws to the specific facts submitted in writing by the taxpayer and provides a conclusion regarding the tax treatment to be accorded the taxpayer upon the application of the tax law to those facts.
(2)
Penalty and addition to tax.
For purposes of section 6404(f) and the regulations thereunder, the terms “penalty” and “addition to tax” refer to any liability of a particular taxpayer imposed under subtitle F, chapter 68, subchapter A and subchapter B of the Internal Revenue Code, and the liabilities imposed by sections 6038(b), 6038(c), 6038A(d), 6038B(b), 6039E(c), and 6332(d)(2). In addition, the terms “penalty” and “addition to tax” shall include any liability resulting from the application of other provisions of the Code where the Commissioner of Internal Revenue has designated by regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin that such provision shall be considered a penalty or addition to tax for purposes of section 6404(f). The terms “penalty” and “addition to tax” shall also include interest imposed with respect to any penalty or addition to tax.
(d)
Procedures for abatement.
Taxpayers entitled to an abatement of a penalty or addition to tax pursuant to section 6404(f) and this section should complete and file Form 843. If the erroneous advice received relates to an item on a federal tax return, taxpayers should submit Form 843 to the Internal Revenue Service Center where the return was filed. If the advice does not relate to an item on a federal tax return, the taxpayer should submit Form 843 to the Service Center where the taxpayer's return was filed for the taxable year in which the taxpayer relied on the erroneous advice. At the top of Form 843 taxpayers should write, “Abatement of penalty or addition to tax pursuant to section 6404(f).” Further, taxpayers must state on Form 843 whether the penalty or addition to tax has been paid. Taxpayers must submit, with Form 843, copies of the following—
(1) The taxpayer's written request for advice;
(2) The erroneous written advice furnished by the Service to the taxpayer and relied on by the taxpayer; and
(3) The report (if any) of tax adjustments that identifies the penalty or addition to tax and the item relating to the erroneous written advice.
(e)
Period for requesting abatement.
An abatement of any penalty or addition to tax pursuant to section 6404(f) and this section shall be allowed only if the request for abatement described in paragraph (d) of this section is submitted within the period allowed for collection of such penalty or addition to tax, or, if the penalty or addition to tax has been paid, the period allowed for claiming a credit or refund of such penalty or addition to tax.
(f)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of section 6404(f) of the Code and the regulations thereunder:

# Example 1.
In February 1989, an individual submitted a written request for advice to an Internal Revenue Service Center and included adequate and accurate information to consider the request. The question posed by the taxpayer concerned whether a certain amount was includible in income on the taxpayer's 1989 federal income tax return. An employee of the Service Center issued the taxpayer a written response that concluded that based on the specific facts submitted by the taxpayer, the amount was not includible in income on the taxpayer's 1989 return. Since the response provided a conclusion regarding the tax treatment accorded the taxpayer on the basis of the facts submitted, the response constitutes “advice” for purposes of section 6404(f). The taxpayer filed his 1989 return and, relying on the Service's advice, did not include the item in income. Upon examination, it was determined that the item should have been included in income on the taxpayer's 1989 return. Because the taxpayer reasonably relied upon erroneous written advice from the Service, any penalty or addition to tax attributable to the erroneous advice will be abated by the Service. However, the erroneous advice will not affect the amount of any taxes and interest owed by the taxpayer (except to the extent interest relates to a penalty or addition to tax attributable to the erroneous advice) due to the fact that the item was not included in income.

# Example 2.
In March 1989, an individual submitted a written request to the National Office of the Internal Revenue Service regarding whether a certain activity constitutes a passive activity within the meaning of section 469 of the Code. The request did not meet the procedural requirements set forth by the National Office for consideration of the submission as a private letter ruling request and, thus, was not treated as such by the Service. The Service furnished the taxpayer with a written response that transmitted various published provisions of section 469 and the regulations thereunder relevant to the determination of whether an activity is passive within the meaning of those provisions. The Service also included a Publication regarding the tax treatment of passive activities. However, the Service's response contained no opinion or determination regarding whether the taxpayer's described activity was or was not passive under section 469. The Service's response is not advice within the meaning of section 6404(f), and cannot be relied upon for purposes of an abatement of a portion of a penalty or addition to tax under that section.

# Example 3.
On April 1, 1989, an individual submitted a written request for advice to an Internal Revenue Service Center. The advice related to an item included on a federal tax return. The individual filed a federal income tax return with the appropriate Service Center on April 15, 1989. Subsequently, on May 1, 1989, the individual received advice from the Service Center concerning the written request made on April 1. Because the individual filed his tax return prior to the date on which written advice from the Service was received, the individual did not rely on the Service's written advice for purposes of section 6404(f). If, however, the individual amends his tax return to conform with the written advice received from the Service, the individual will be considered to have reasonably relied upon the Service's advice.

# Example 4.
Individual A, on May 1, 1989, received advice from the Service that concluded that interest paid by the taxpayer with respect to a specific loan was interest paid or accrued in connection with a trade or business, within the meaning of section 163(h)(2)(A) of the Code. The advice relates to a continuing action. Therefore, provided the facts submitted by the taxpayer to obtain the advice remain adequate and accurate (that is, the circumstances relating to the indebtedness do not change), Individual A may rely on the Service's advice for subsequent taxable years until the individual is put on notice that the advice no longer represents Service position and, thus, is no longer valid.

# Example 5.
An individual, on June 1, 1989, received advice from the Service that concluded that no gain or loss would be recognized with respect to a transfer of property to his spouse under section 1041. The advice does not relate to a continuing action. Therefore, the taxpayer may not rely on the advice of the Service for transfers other than the transfer discussed in the taxpayer's written request for advice.
(g)
Effective date.
Section 6404(f) shall apply with respect to advice requested on or after January 1, 1989.
[T.D. 8254, 54 FR 21057, May 16, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 14245, Apr. 17, 1990]
§ 301.6404-4
Suspension of interest and certain penalties when the Internal Revenue Service does not timely contact the taxpayer.
(a)
Suspension
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if an individual taxpayer files a return of tax imposed by subtitle A on or before the due date for the return (including extensions) and the Internal Revenue Service does not timely provide the taxpayer with a notice specifically stating the amount of any increased liability and the basis for that liability, then the IRS must suspend the imposition of any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount, with respect to any failure relating to the return that is computed by reference to the period of time the failure continues to exist and that is properly allocable to the suspension period. The notice described in this paragraph (a) is timely if provided before the close of the 18-month period (36-month period in the case of notices provided after November 25, 2007, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5)) beginning on the later of the date on which the return is filed or the due date of the return without regard to extensions.
(2)
Treatment of amended returns and other documents
—(i)
Amended returns filed on or after December 21, 2005, that show an increase in tax liability.
If a taxpayer, on or after December 21, 2005, provides to the IRS an amended return or one or more other signed written documents showing an increase in tax liability, the date on which the return was filed will, for purposes of this paragraph (a), be the date on which the last of the documents was provided. Documents described in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) are provided on the date that they are received by the IRS.
(ii)
Amended returns that show a decrease in tax liability.
If a taxpayer provides to the IRS an amended return or other signed written document that shows a decrease in tax liability, any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount will not be suspended if the IRS at any time proposes to adjust the changed item or items on the amended return or other signed written document.
(iii)
Amended returns and other documents as notice.
(A) As to the items reported, an amended return or one or more other signed written documents showing that the taxpayer owes an additional amount of tax for the taxable year serves as the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to the items reported on the amended return.
(B)
Example.
An individual taxpayer timely files a Federal income tax return for taxable year 2008 on April 15, 2009. On January 19, 2010, the taxpayer mails to the IRS an amended return reporting an additional item of income and an increased tax liability for taxable year 2008. The IRS receives the amended return on January 21, 2010. The amended return will be treated for purposes of this paragraph (a) as filed on January 21, 2010, the date the IRS received it. Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the amended return serves as the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to the item reported on the amended return. Accordingly, because the filing of the amended return and the provision of notice occur simultaneously, no suspension of any interest, penalty, addition to tax or additional amount will occur under this paragraph (a) with respect to the item reported on the amended return.
(iv)
Joint return after filing separate return.
A joint return filed under section 6013(b) is subject to the rules for amended returns described in this paragraph (a)(2). The IRS will not suspend any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount on a joint return filed under section 6013(b) after the filing of a separate return unless each spouse's separate return, if required to be filed, was timely.
(3)
Separate application.
This paragraph (a) shall be applied separately with respect to each item or adjustment.
(4)
Duration of suspension period.
The suspension period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section begins the day after the close of the 18-month period (36-month period, in the case of
notices provided after November 25, 2007, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5)) beginning on the later of the date on which the return is filed or the due date of the return without regard to extensions. The suspension period ends 21 days after the earlier of the date on which the IRS mails the required notice to the taxpayer's last known address, the date on which the required notice is hand-delivered to the taxpayer, or the date on which the IRS receives an amended return or other signed written document showing an increased tax liability.
(5)
Certain notices provided on or after November 26, 2007.
If the IRS provides the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to a taxpayer on or after November 26, 2007, and the notice relates to an individual Federal income tax return that was timely filed before that date, the following rules will apply:
(i)
Eighteen-month period has closed.
If, as of November 25, 2007, the 18-month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section has closed and the IRS has not provided the taxpayer with the notice described in that paragraph (a)(1), the suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will begin on the day after the close of the 18-month period. The suspension will end on the date that is 21 days after the notice is provided.
(ii)
All other cases.
In all other cases, the suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will begin on the day after the close of the 36-month period described in that paragraph (a)(1) and end on the date that is 21 days after the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is provided.
(6)
Examples.
The following examples, which assume that no exceptions in section 6404(g)(2) to the general rule of suspension apply, illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a).

# Example 1.
An individual taxpayer timely files a Federal income tax return for taxable year 2005 on April 17, 2006. On December 11, 2007, the taxpayer mails to the IRS an amended return reporting an additional item of income and an increased tax liability for taxable year 2005. The IRS receives the amended return on December 13, 2007. On January 16, 2008, the IRS provides the taxpayer with a notice stating that the taxpayer has an additional tax liability based on the disallowance of a deduction the taxpayer claimed on his original return and did not change on his amended return. The date the amended return was received substitutes for the date that the original return was filed with respect to the additional item of tax liability reported on the amended return. Thus, the IRS will not suspend any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to the additional item of income and the increased tax liability reported on the amended return. The suspension period for the additional tax liability based on the IRS's disallowance of the deduction begins on October 17, 2007, so the IRS will suspend any interest, penalty, addition to tax, and additional amount with respect to the disallowed deduction and additional tax liability from that date through February 6, 2008, which is 21 days after the IRS provided notice of the additional tax liability and the basis for that liability. The suspension period in this example begins 18 months after filing the return (not 36 months) because, as of November 25, 2007, the 18-month period beginning on the date the return was filed had closed without the IRS giving notice of the additional liability. Thus, under the rules in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the suspension period begins 18 months from the April 17, 2006 return filing date.

# Example 2.
An individual taxpayer files a Federal income tax return for taxable year 2008 on April 15, 2009. The taxpayer consents to extend the time within which the IRS may assess any tax due on the return until June 30, 2013. On December 20, 2012, the IRS provides a notice to the taxpayer specifically stating the taxpayer's liability and the basis for the liability. The suspension period for the liability identified by the IRS begins on April 15, 2012, so the IRS will suspend any interest, penalty, addition to tax, and additional amount with respect to that liability from that date through January 10, 2013, which is 21 days after the IRS provided notice of the additional tax liability and the basis for that liability.
(7)
Notice of liability and the basis for the liability
—(i)
In general.
Notice to the taxpayer must be in writing and specifically state the amount of the liability and the basis for the liability. The notice must provide the taxpayer with sufficient information to identify which items of income, deduction, loss, or credit the IRS has adjusted or proposes to adjust, and the reason for that adjustment. Notice of the reason for the adjustment does not require a detailed explanation or a citation to any Internal Revenue Code section or other
legal authority. The IRS need not incorporate all of the information necessary to satisfy the notice requirement within a single document or provide all of the information at the same time. Documents that may contain information sufficient to constitute notice, either alone or in conjunction with other documents, include, but are not limited to, statutory notices of deficiency; examination reports (for example, Form 4549,
Income Tax Examination Changes
or Form 886-A,
Explanation of Items);
Form 870,
Waiver of Restriction on Assessments and Collection of Deficiency in Tax and Acceptance of Overassessment;
notices of proposed deficiency that allow the taxpayer an opportunity for review in the Office of Appeals (30-day letters); notices pursuant to section 6213(b) (mathematical or clerical errors); and notice and demand for payment of a jeopardy assessment under section 6861.
(ii)
Tax attributable to TEFRA partnership items.
Notice to the partner or the tax matters partner (TMP) of a partnership subject to the unified audit and litigation procedures of subchapter C of chapter 63 of subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code (TEFRA partnership procedures) that provides specific information about the basis for the adjustments to partnership items is sufficient notice if a partner could reasonably compute the specific tax attributable to the partnership item based on the proposed adjustments as applied to the partner's individual tax situation. Documents provided by the IRS during a TEFRA partnership proceeding that may contain information sufficient to satisfy the notice requirements include, but are not limited to, a Notice of Final Partnership Administrative Adjustment (FPAA); examination reports (for example, Form 4605-A or Form 886-A); or a letter that allows the partners an opportunity for review in the Office of Appeals (60-day letter).
(iii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a)(7).

# Example 1.
During an audit of Taxpayer A's 2005 taxable year return, the IRS questions a charitable deduction claimed on the return. The IRS provides A with a 30-day letter that proposes to disallow the charitable contribution deduction resulting in a deficiency of $1,000 and informs A that A may file a written protest of the proposed disallowance with the Office of Appeals within 30 days. The letter includes as an attachment a copy of the revenue agent's report that states, “It has not been established that the amount shown on your return as a charitable contribution was paid during the tax year. Therefore, this deduction is not allowable.” The information in the 30-day letter and attachment provides A with notice of the specific amount of the liability and the basis for that liability as described in this paragraph (a)(7).

# Example 2.
Taxpayer B is a partner in partnership P, a TEFRA partnership for taxable year 2005. B claims a distributive share of partnership income on B's Federal income tax return for 2005 timely filed on April 17, 2006. On October 1, 2007, during the course of a partnership audit of P for taxable year 2005, the IRS provides P's TMP with a 60-day letter proposing to adjust P's income by $10,000. The IRS previously had provided the TMP with a copy of the examination report explaining that the adjustment was based on $10,000 of unreported net income. On October 31, 2007, P's TMP informs B of the proposed adjustment as required by § 301.6223(g)-1(b). By accounting for B's distributive share of the $10,000 of unreported income from P with B's other income tax items, B can determine B's tax attributable to the $10,000 partnership adjustment. The information in the 60-day letter and the examination report allows B to compute the specific amount of the liability attributable to the adjustment to the partnership item and the basis for that adjustment and therefore satisfies the notice requirement of paragraph (a). Because the IRS provided that notice to the TMP, B's agent under the TEFRA partnership provisions, within 18 months of the April 17, 2006 filing date of B's return, any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to B's tax liability attributable to B's distributive share of the $10,000 of unreported partnership income will not be suspended under section 6404(g).
(8)
Providing notice
—(i)
In general.
The IRS may provide notice by mail or in person to the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative. If the IRS mails the notice, it must be sent to the taxpayer's last known address under rules similar to section 6212(b), except that certified or registered mail is not required. Notice is considered provided as of the date of mailing or delivery in person.
(ii)
Providing notice in TEFRA partnership proceedings.
In the case of TEFRA partnership proceedings, the IRS must
provide notice of final partnership administrative adjustments (FPAA) by mail to those partners specified in section 6223. Within 60 days of an FPAA being mailed, the TMP is required to forward notice of the FPAA to those partners not entitled to direct notice from the IRS under section 6223. Certain partners with small interests in partnerships with more than 100 partners may form a Notice Group and designate a partner to receive the FPAA on their behalf. The IRS may provide other information after the beginning of the partnership administrative proceeding to the TMP who, in turn, must provide that information to the partners specified in § 301.6223(g)-1 within 30 days of receipt. Pass-thru partners who receive notices and other information from the IRS or the TMP must forward that notice or information within 30 days to those holding an interest through the pass-thru partner. Information provided by the IRS to the TMP is deemed to be notice for purposes of this section to those partners specified in § 301.6223(g)-1 as of the date the IRS provides that notice to the TMP. A similar rule applies to notice provided to the designated partner of a Notice Group, and to notice provided to a pass-thru partner. In the foregoing situations, the TMP, designated partner, and pass-thru partner are agents for direct and indirect partners. Consequently, notice to these agents is deemed to be notice to the partners for whom they act.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Failure to file tax return or to pay tax.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any penalty imposed by section 6651.
(2)
Fraud.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for a year involving a false or fraudulent return. If a taxpayer files a fraudulent return for a particular year, paragraph (a) of this section may apply to any other tax year of the taxpayer that does not involve fraud. Fraud affecting a particular item on a return precludes paragraph (a) of this section from applying to any other items on that return.
(3)
Tax shown on return.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any tax liability shown on a return.
(4)
Gross misstatement
—(i)
Description.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to a gross misstatement. A
gross misstatement
for purposes of this paragraph (b) means:
(A) a substantial omission of income as described in section 6501(e)(1) or section 6229(c)(2);
(B) a gross valuation misstatement within the meaning of section 6662(h)(2)(A) and (B); or
(C) a misstatement to which the penalty under section 6702(a) applies.
(ii)
Effect of gross misstatement.
If a gross misstatement occurs, then paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any items of income omitted from the return and with respect to overstated deductions, even though one or more of the omitted items would not constitute a substantial omission, gross valuation misstatement, or misstatement to which section 6702(a) applies.
(5)
Listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions
—(i)
In general.
The general rule of suspension under section 6404(g)(1) does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any listed transaction as defined in section 6707A(c) or any undisclosed reportable transaction. For purposes of this section, an
undisclosed reportable transaction
is a reportable transaction described in the regulations under section 6011 that is not adequately disclosed under those regulations and that is not a listed transaction. The date that the IRS provides notice to the taxpayer specifically stating the taxpayer's liability regarding a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction and the basis for that liability is the controlling date for determining whether the transaction is a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction for purposes of the suspension rules under section 6404(g).
(ii)
Special rule for certain listed or undisclosed reportable transactions.
With respect to interest relating to listed
transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions accruing on or before October 3, 2004, the exception to the general rule of interest suspension will not apply to a taxpayer who is a participant in a settlement initiative with respect to that transaction, to any transaction in which the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith, or to a closed transaction. For purposes of this special rule, a “participant in a settlement initiative,” a “taxpayer acting in good faith,” and a “closed transaction” have the following meanings:
(A)
Participant in a settlement initiative
—(
1
)
Participant in a settlement initiative who, as of January 23, 2006, had not reached agreement with the IRS.
A
participant in a settlement initiative
includes a taxpayer who, as of January 23, 2006, was participating in a settlement initiative described in Internal Revenue Service Announcement 2005-80, 2005-2 C.B. 967. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter. A taxpayer participates in the initiative by complying with Section 5 of the Announcement. A taxpayer is not a participant in a settlement initiative if, after January 23, 2006, the taxpayer withdraws from or terminates participation in the initiative, or the IRS determines that a settlement agreement will not be reached under the initiative within a reasonable period of time.
(
2
)
Participant in a settlement initiative who, as of January 23, 2006, had reached agreement with the IRS.
A
participant in a settlement initiative
is a taxpayer who, as of January 23, 2006, had entered into a settlement agreement under Announcement 2005-80 or any other prior or contemporaneous settlement initiative either offered through published guidance or, if the initiative was not formally published, direct contact with taxpayers known to have participated in a tax shelter promotion.
(B)
Taxpayer acting in good faith
—(
1
)
In general.
The IRS may suspend interest relating to a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction accruing on or before October 3, 2004, if the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith. The IRS's determination of whether a taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith will take into account all the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction. The facts and circumstances include, but are not limited to, whether the taxpayer disclosed the transaction and the taxpayer's course of conduct after being identified as participating in the transaction, including the taxpayer's response to opportunities afforded to the taxpayer to settle the transaction, and whether the taxpayer engaged in unreasonable delay at any stage of the matter.
(
2
)
Presumption.
If a taxpayer and the IRS promptly enter into a settlement agreement with respect to a transaction on terms proposed by the IRS or, in the event of atypical facts and circumstances, on terms more favorable to the taxpayer, and the taxpayer has complied with the terms of that agreement without unreasonable delay, the taxpayer will be presumed to have acted reasonably and in good faith except in rare and unusual circumstances. Rare and unusual circumstances must involve specific actions involving harm to tax administration. Even if a taxpayer does not qualify for the presumption described in this paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(B)(
2
), the taxpayer may still be granted interest suspension under the general facts and circumstances test set forth in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(
3
)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules the IRS uses in determining whether a taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith.

# Example 1.
The taxpayer participated in a listed transaction. The IRS, in a letter sent directly to the taxpayer in July 2005, proposed a settlement of the transaction. The taxpayer informed the IRS of his interest in the settlement within the prescribed time period. The revenue agent assigned to the taxpayer's case was not able to calculate the taxpayer's liability under the settlement or tender a closing agreement to the taxpayer until March 2006. The taxpayer promptly executed the closing agreement and returned it to the IRS with a proposal for arrangements to pay the agreed-upon liability. The IRS agreed with the proposed arrangements for full payment. For purposes of the application of section 6404(g)(2)(E), the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith. Interest accruing on or before October 3, 2004, relating to the transaction in which the taxpayer participated will be suspended.

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except that the letter was sent by
the IRS in February 2006, and the closing agreement was tendered to the taxpayer in April 2006. For purposes of the application of section 6404(g)(2)(E), the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith. Interest accruing on or before October 3, 2004, relating to the transaction in which the taxpayer participated will be suspended.

# Example 3.
The taxpayer participated in a listed transaction. In response to an offer of settlement extended by the IRS in August 2005, the taxpayer informed the IRS of her interest in entering into a closing agreement on the terms proposed by the IRS. The revenue agent assigned to the transaction calculated the taxpayer's liability under the settlement and tendered a closing agreement to the taxpayer in November 2005. The taxpayer executed the closing agreement but failed to make any arrangement for payment of the agreed-upon liability stated in the closing agreement. Taking into account all the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction, the taxpayer did not act reasonably and in good faith. Interest accruing on or before October 3, 2004, relating to the transaction in which the taxpayer participated will not be suspended.

# Example 4.
The taxpayer participated in a listed transaction. In a letter sent by the IRS directly to the taxpayer in July 2005, the IRS extended an offer of settlement. The July 2005 letter informed the taxpayer that, absent atypical facts and circumstances, the taxpayer should not expect resolution of the tax issues on more favorable terms than proposed in the letter. The taxpayer declined the proposed settlement terms of the letter and proceeded to Appeals to present what the taxpayer claimed were atypical facts and circumstances. The administrative file did not contain sufficient information bearing on atypical facts and circumstances, and the taxpayer failed to provide additional information when requested by Appeals to explain how the transaction originally proposed to the taxpayer differed in structure or types of tax benefits claimed, from the transaction as implemented by the taxpayer. Appeals determined that the taxpayer's facts and circumstances were not significantly different from those of other taxpayers who participated in that listed transaction and thus, were not atypical. In September 2006, the taxpayer and Appeals entered into a closing agreement on terms consistent with those originally proposed in the July 2005 letter. The taxpayer has complied with the terms of that closing agreement. For purposes of the application of section 6404(g)(2)(E), this taxpayer is not presumed to have acted reasonably and in good faith; instead, the IRS will apply the general rule to determine whether to suspend interest accruing on or before October 3, 2004, relating to the transaction in which the taxpayer participated.

# Example 5.
The facts are the same as in
Example 4,
except that Appeals agrees that atypical facts were present that warrant additional concessions by the government. A settlement is reached on terms more favorable to the taxpayer than those proposed in the July 2005 letter. For purposes of the application of section 6404(g)(2)(E), this taxpayer is presumed to have acted reasonably and in good faith, and absent evidence of rare or unusual circumstances harmful to tax administration, is eligible for suspension of interest accruing on or before October 3, 2004, relating to the transaction in which the taxpayer participated.
(C)
Closed transactions.
A transaction is considered closed for purposes of this clause if, as of December 14, 2005, the assessment of all federal income taxes for the taxable year in which the tax liability to which the interest relates is prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law, or a closing agreement under section 7121 has been entered into with respect to the tax liability arising in connection with the transaction.
(c)
Special rules
—(1)
Tentative carryback and refund adjustments.
If an amount applied, credited or refunded under section 6411 exceeds the overassessment properly attributable to a tentative carryback or refund adjustment, any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to the excess will not be suspended.
(2)
Election under section 183(e)
—(i)
In general.
If a taxpayer elects under section 183(e) to defer the determination of whether the presumption that an activity is engaged in for profit applies, the 18-month (or 36-month) notification period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be tolled for the period to which the election applies. If the 18-month (or 36-month) notification period has passed as of the date the section 183(e) election is made, the suspension period described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be tolled for the period to which the election applies and will resume the day after the tolling period ends. Tolling will begin on the date the election is made and end on the later of the date the return for the last taxable year to which the election applies is filed or is due without regard to extensions.
(ii)
Example.
In taxable year 2007, taxpayer begins training and showing horses. On January 4, 2011, the taxpayer elects under section 183(e) to defer the determination of whether the horse-related activity will be presumed (under section 183(d)) to be engaged in for profit. Accordingly, under section 183(e)(1), a determination of whether the section 183(d) presumption applies will not occur before the close of the 2013 taxable year. Assume that in 2014, the IRS is considering issuing a notice of deficiency for taxable year 2009 regarding tax deductions claimed for the horse-related activity. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the 36-month notification period under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be tolled with respect to taxable year 2009 for the period to which the section 183(e) election applies. This tolling of the notification period begins on January 4, 2011 (the date the taxpayer made the section 183(e) election) and ends on the later of April 15, 2014, or the date the taxpayer's return for taxable year 2013 is filed.
(d)
Effective/Applicability date.
Paragraph (b)(5) of these regulations applies to interest relating to listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions accruing before, on, or after October 3, 2004. Paragraphs (a), (b)(1) through (b)(4), and (c) are effective on August 22, 2011.
[T.D. 9488, 75 FR 33993, June 16, 2010, as amended by T.D. 9545, 76 FR 52261, Aug. 22, 2011; 76 FR 60373, Sept. 29, 2011]
§ 301.6405-1
Reports of refunds and credits.
Section 6405 requires that a report be made to the Joint Committee on Taxation of proposed refunds or credits in excess of $100,000 of any income tax (including any qualified State individual income tax collected by the Federal Government), war profits tax, excess profits tax, estate tax, or gift tax. An exception is provided under which refunds and credits made after July 1, 1972, and attributable to an election under section 165(h) to deduct a disaster loss for the taxable year in which the disaster occurred, may be made prior to the submission of such report to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
[T.D. 7577, 43 FR 59376, Dec. 20, 1978]
§ 301.6407-1
Date of allowance of refund or credit.
The date on which the district director or the director of the regional service center, or an authorized certifying officer designated by either of them, first certifies the allowance of an overassessment in respect of any internal revenue tax shall be considered as the date of allowance of refund or credit in respect of such tax.

# Rules of Special Application
§ 301.6411-1
Tentative carryback adjustments.
For regulations under section 6411, see §§ 1.6411-1 to 1.6411-4, inclusive, of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
§ 301.6413-1
Special rules applicable to certain employment taxes.
For regulations under section 6413, see §§ 31.6413(a)-1 to 31.6413(c)-1, inclusive, of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
§ 301.6414-1
Income tax withheld.
(a) For rules relating to the refund or credit of income tax withheld under chapter 3 of the Code on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds, see § 1.6414-1 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
(b) For rules relating to the refund or credit of income tax withheld under chapter 24 of the Code from wages, see § 31.6414-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
§ 301.6425-1
Adjustment of overpayment of estimated income tax by corporation.
For regulations under section 6425, see §§ 1.6425-1 to 1.6425-3, inclusive, of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
[T.D. 7059, 35 FR 14548, Sept. 17, 1970]

# Limitations

# Limitations on Assessment and Collection
§ 301.6501(a)-1
Period of limitations upon assessment and collection.
(a) The amount of any tax imposed by the Code (other than a tax collected by means of stamps) shall be assessed
within 3 years after the return was filed. For rules applicable in cases where the return is filed prior to the due date thereof, see section 6501(b). In the case of taxes payable by stamp, assessment shall be made at any time after the tax became due and before the expiration of 3 years after the date on which any part of the tax was paid. For exceptions and additional rules, see subsections (b) to (g) of section 6501, and for cross references to other provisions relating to limitations on assessment and collection, see sections 6501(h) and 6504.
(b) No proceeding in court without assessment for the collection of any tax shall be begun after the expiration of the applicable period for the assessment of such tax.
§ 301.6501(b)-1
Time return deemed filed for purposes of determining limitations.
(a)
Early return.
Any return, other than a return of tax referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, filed before the last day prescribed by law or regulations for the filing thereof (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing) shall be considered as filed on such last day.
(b)
Returns of social security tax and of income tax withholding.
If a return on or after November 13, 1966, of tax imposed by chapter 3 of the Code (relating to withholding of tax on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds), or if a return of tax imposed by chapter 21 of the Code (relating to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act) or by chapter 24 of the Code (relating to collection of income tax at source on wages), for any period ending with or within a calendar year is filed before April 15 of the succeeding calendar year, such return shall be deemed filed on April 15 of such succeeding calendar year. For example, if quarterly returns of the tax imposed by chapter 24 of the Code are filed for the four quarters of 1955 on April 30, July 31, and October 31, 1955, and on January 31, 1956, the period of limitation for assessment with respect to the tax required to be reported on such return is measured from April 15, 1956. However, if any of such returns is filed after April 15, 1956, the period of limitation for assessment of the tax required to be reported on that return is measured from the date it is in fact filed.
(c)
Returns executed by district directors or other internal revenue officers.
The execution of a return by a district director or other authorized internal revenue officer or employee under the authority of section 6020(b) shall not start the running of the statutory period of limitations on assessment and collection.
§ 301.6501(c)-1
Exceptions to general period of limitations on assessment and collection.
(a)
False return.
In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade any tax, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time after such false or fraudulent return is filed.
(b)
Willful attempt to evade tax.
In the case of a willful attempt in any manner to defeat or evade any tax imposed by the Code (other than a tax imposed by subtitle A or B, relating to income, estate, or gift taxes), the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time.
(c)
No return.
In the case of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time after the date prescribed for filing the return. For special rules relating to filing a return for chapter 42 and similar taxes, see §§ 301.6501(n)-1, 301.6501(n)-2, and 301.6501(n)-3.
(d)
Extension by agreement.
The time prescribed by section 6501 for the assessment of any tax (other than the estate tax imposed by chapter 11 of the Code) may, prior to the expiration of such time, be extended for any period of time agreed upon in writing by the taxpayer and the district director or an assistant regional commissioner. The extension shall become effective when the agreement has been executed by both parties. The period agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
(e)
Gifts subject to chapter 14 of the Internal Revenue Code not adequately disclosed on the return.
If any transfer of property subject to the special valuation rules of section 2701 or section 2702, or if the occurrence of any taxable event described in section § 25.2701-4 of this chapter, is not adequately shown on a return of tax imposed by chapter 12 of subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code (without regard to section 2503(b)), any tax imposed by chapter 12 of subtitle B of the Code on the transfer or resulting from the taxable event may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the appropriate tax may be begun without assessment, at any time.
(2)
Adequately shown.
A transfer of property valued under the rules of section 2701 or section 2702 or any taxable event described in § 25.2701-4 of this chapter will be considered adequately shown on a return of tax imposed by chapter 12 of subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code only if, with respect to the entire transaction or series of transactions (including any transaction that affected the transferred interest) of which the transfer (or taxable event) was a part, the return provides:
(i) A description of the transactions, including a description of transferred and retained interests and the method (or methods) used to value each;
(ii) The identity of, and relationship between, the transferor, transferee, all other persons participating in the transactions, and all parties related to the transferor holding an equity interest in any entity involved in the transaction; and
(iii) A detailed description (including all actuarial factors and discount rates used) of the method used to determine the amount of the gift arising from the transfer (or taxable event), including, in the case of an equity interest that is not actively traded, the financial and other data used in determining value. Financial data should generally include balance sheets and statements of net earnings, operating results, and dividends paid for each of the 5 years immediately before the valuation date.
(3)
Effective date.
The provisions of this paragraph (e) are effective as of January 28, 1992. In determining whether a transfer or taxable event is adequately shown on a gift tax return filed prior to that date, taxpayers may rely on any reasonable interpretation of the statutory provisions. For these purposes, the provisions of the proposed regulations and the final regulations are considered a reasonable interpretation of the statutory provisions.
(f)
Gifts made after December 31, 1996, not adequately disclosed on the return
—(1)
In general.
If a transfer of property, other than a transfer described in paragraph (e) of this section, is not adequately disclosed on a gift tax return (Form 709, “United States Gift (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return”), or in a statement attached to the return, filed for the calendar period in which the transfer occurs, then any gift tax imposed by chapter 12 of subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code on the transfer may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the appropriate tax may be begun without assessment, at any time.
(2)
Adequate disclosure of transfers of property reported as gifts.
A transfer will be adequately disclosed on the return only if it is reported in a manner adequate to apprise the Internal Revenue Service of the nature of the gift and the basis for the value so reported. Transfers reported on the gift tax return as transfers of property by gift will be considered adequately disclosed under this paragraph (f)(2) if the return (or a statement attached to the return) provides the following information—
(i) A description of the transferred property and any consideration received by the transferor;
(ii) The identity of, and relationship between, the transferor and each transferee;
(iii) If the property is transferred in trust, the trust's tax identification number and a brief description of the terms of the trust, or in lieu of a brief description of the trust terms, a copy of the trust instrument;
(iv) Except as provided in § 301.6501-1(f)(3), a detailed description of the method used to determine the fair market value of property transferred, including any financial data (for example, balance sheets, etc. with explanations of any adjustments) that were utilized in determining the value of the
interest, any restrictions on the transferred property that were considered in determining the fair market value of the property, and a description of any discounts, such as discounts for blockage, minority or fractional interests, and lack of marketability, claimed in valuing the property. In the case of a transfer of an interest that is actively traded on an established exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ National Market, or a regional exchange in which quotations are published on a daily basis, including recognized foreign exchanges, recitation of the exchange where the interest is listed, the CUSIP number of the security, and the mean between the highest and lowest quoted selling prices on the applicable valuation date will satisfy all of the requirements of this paragraph (f)(2)(iv). In the case of the transfer of an interest in an entity (for example, a corporation or partnership) that is not actively traded, a description must be provided of any discount claimed in valuing the interests in the entity or any assets owned by such entity. In addition, if the value of the entity or of the interests in the entity is properly determined based on the net value of the assets held by the entity, a statement must be provided regarding the fair market value of 100 percent of the entity (determined without regard to any discounts in valuing the entity or any assets owned by the entity), the pro rata portion of the entity subject to the transfer, and the fair market value of the transferred interest as reported on the return. If 100 percent of the value of the entity is not disclosed, the taxpayer bears the burden of demonstrating that the fair market value of the entity is properly determined by a method other than a method based on the net value of the assets held by the entity. If the entity that is the subject of the transfer owns an interest in another non-actively traded entity (either directly or through ownership of an entity), the information required in this paragraph (f)(2)(iv) must be provided for each entity if the information is relevant and material in determining the value of the interest; and
(v) A statement describing any position taken that is contrary to any proposed, temporary or final Treasury regulations or revenue rulings published at the time of the transfer (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).
(3)
Submission of appraisals in lieu of the information required under paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section.
The requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section will be satisfied if the donor submits an appraisal of the transferred property that meets the following requirements—
(i) The appraisal is prepared by an appraiser who satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The appraiser is an individual who holds himself or herself out to the public as an appraiser or performs appraisals on a regular basis.
(B) Because of the appraiser's qualifications, as described in the appraisal that details the appraiser's background, experience, education, and membership, if any, in professional appraisal associations, the appraiser is qualified to make appraisals of the type of property being valued.
(C) The appraiser is not the donor or the donee of the property or a member of the family of the donor or donee, as defined in section 2032A(e)(2), or any person employed by the donor, the donee, or a member of the family of either; and
(ii) The appraisal contains all of the following:
(A) The date of the transfer, the date on which the transferred property was appraised, and the purpose of the appraisal.
(B) A description of the property.
(C) A description of the appraisal process employed.
(D) A description of the assumptions, hypothetical conditions, and any limiting conditions and restrictions on the transferred property that affect the analyses, opinions, and conclusions.
(E) The information considered in determining the appraised value, including in the case of an ownership interest in a business, all financial data that was used in determining the value of the interest that is sufficiently detailed so that another person can replicate the process and arrive at the appraised value.
(F) The appraisal procedures followed, and the reasoning that supports the analyses, opinions, and conclusions.
(G) The valuation method utilized, the rationale for the valuation method, and the procedure used in determining the fair market value of the asset transferred.
(H) The specific basis for the valuation, such as specific comparable sales or transactions, sales of similar interests, asset-based approaches, merger-acquisition transactions, etc.
(4)
Adequate disclosure of non-gift completed transfers or transactions.
Completed transfers to members of the transferor's family, as defined in section 2032A(e)(2), that are made in the ordinary course of operating a business are deemed to be adequately disclosed under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, even if the transfer is not reported on a gift tax return, provided the transfer is properly reported by all parties for income tax purposes. For example, in the case of salary paid to a family member employed in a family owned business, the transfer will be treated as adequately disclosed for gift tax purposes if the item is properly reported by the business and the family member on their income tax returns. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(4), any other completed transfer that is reported, in its entirety, as not constituting a transfer by gift will be considered adequately disclosed under paragraph (f)(2) of this section only if the following information is provided on, or attached to, the return—
(i) The information required for adequate disclosure under paragraphs (f)(2)(i), (ii), (iii) and (v) of this section; and
(ii) An explanation as to why the transfer is not a transfer by gift under chapter 12 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(5)
Adequate disclosure of incomplete transfers.
Adequate disclosure of a transfer that is reported as a completed gift on the gift tax return will commence the running of the period of limitations for assessment of gift tax on the transfer, even if the transfer is ultimately determined to be an incomplete gift for purposes of § 25.2511-2 of this chapter. For example, if an incomplete gift is reported as a completed gift on the gift tax return and is adequately disclosed, the period for assessment of the gift tax will begin to run when the return is filed, as determined under section 6501(b). Further, once the period of assessment for gift tax expires, the transfer will be subject to inclusion in the donor's gross estate for estate tax purposes only to the extent that a completed gift would be so included. On the other hand, if the transfer is reported as an incomplete gift whether or not adequately disclosed, the period for assessing a gift tax with respect to the transfer will not commence to run even if the transfer is ultimately determined to be a completed gift. In that situation, the gift tax with respect to the transfer may be assessed at any time, up until three years after the donor files a return reporting the transfer as a completed gift with adequate disclosure.
(6)
Treatment of split gifts.
If a husband and wife elect under section 2513 to treat a gift made to a third party as made one-half by each spouse, the requirements of this paragraph (f) will be satisfied with respect to the gift deemed made by the consenting spouse if the return filed by the donor spouse (the spouse that transferred the property) satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (f) with respect to that gift.
(7)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (f):

# Example 1.
(i)
Facts.
In 2001, A transfers 100 shares of common stock of XYZ Corporation to A's child. The common stock of XYZ Corporation is actively traded on a major stock exchange. For gift tax purposes, the fair market value of one share of XYZ common stock on the date of the transfer, determined in accordance with § 25.2512-2(b) of this chapter (based on the mean between the highest and lowest quoted selling prices), is $150.00. On A's Federal gift tax return, Form 709, for the 2001 calendar year, A reports the gift to A's child of 100 shares of common stock of XYZ Corporation with a value for gift tax purposes of $15,000. A specifies the date of the transfer, recites that the stock is publicly traded, identifies the stock exchange on which the stock is traded, lists the stock's CUSIP number, and lists the mean between the highest and lowest quoted selling prices for the date of transfer.
(ii)
Application of the adequate disclosure standard.
A has adequately disclosed the
transfer. Therefore, the period of assessment for the transfer under section 6501 will run from the time the return is filed (as determined under section 6501(b)).

# Example 2.
(i)
Facts.
On December 30, 2001, A transfers closely-held stock to B, A's child. A determined that the value of the transferred stock, on December 30, 2001, was $9,000. A made no other transfers to B, or any other donee, during 2001. On A's Federal gift tax return, Form 709, for the 2001 calendar year, A provides the information required under paragraph (f)(2) of this section such that the transfer is adequately disclosed. A claims an annual exclusion under section 2503(b) for the transfer.
(ii)
Application of the adequate disclosure standard.
Because the transfer is adequately disclosed under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the period of assessment for the transfer will expire as prescribed by section 6501(b), notwithstanding that if A's valuation of the closely-held stock was correct, A was not required to file a gift tax return reporting the transfer under section 6019. After the period of assessment has expired on the transfer, the Internal Revenue Service is precluded from redetermining the amount of the gift for purposes of assessing gift tax or for purposes of determining the estate tax liability. Therefore, the amount of the gift as reported on A's 2001 Federal gift tax return may not be redetermined for purposes of determining A's prior taxable gifts (for gift tax purposes) or A's adjusted taxable gifts (for estate tax purposes).

# Example 3.
(i)
Facts.
A owns 100 percent of the common stock of X, a closely-held corporation. X does not hold an interest in any other entity that is not actively traded. In 2001, A transfers 20 percent of the X stock to B and C, A's children, in a transfer that is not subject to the special valuation rules of section 2701. The transfer is made outright with no restrictions on ownership rights, including voting rights and the right to transfer the stock. Based on generally applicable valuation principles, the value of X would be determined based on the net value of the assets owned by X. The reported value of the transferred stock incorporates the use of minority discounts and lack of marketability discounts. No other discounts were used in arriving at the fair market value of the transferred stock or any assets owned by X. On A's Federal gift tax return, Form 709, for the 2001 calendar year, A provides the information required under paragraph (f)(2) of this section including a statement reporting the fair market value of 100 percent of X (before taking into account any discounts), the pro rata portion of X subject to the transfer, and the reported value of the transfer. A also attaches a statement regarding the determination of value that includes a discussion of the discounts claimed and how the discounts were determined.
(ii)
Application of the adequate disclosure standard.
A has provided sufficient information such that the transfer will be considered adequately disclosed and the period of assessment for the transfer under section 6501 will run from the time the return is filed (as determined under section 6501(b)).

# Example 4.
(i)
Facts.
A owns a 70 percent limited partnership interest in PS. PS owns 40 percent of the stock in X, a closely-held corporation. The assets of X include a 50 percent general partnership interest in PB. PB owns an interest in commercial real property. None of the entities (PS, X, or PB) is actively traded and, based on generally applicable valuation principles, the value of each entity would be determined based on the net value of the assets owned by each entity. In 2001, A transfers a 25 percent limited partnership interest in PS to B, A's child. On the Federal gift tax return, Form 709, for the 2001 calendar year, A reports the transfer of the 25 percent limited partnership interest in PS and that the fair market value of 100 percent of PS is $y and that the value of 25 percent of PS is $z, reflecting marketability and minority discounts with respect to the 25 percent interest. However, A does not disclose that PS owns 40 percent of X, and that X owns 50 percent of PB and that, in arriving at the $y fair market value of 100 percent of PS, discounts were claimed in valuing PS's interest in X, X's interest in PB, and PB's interest in the commercial real property.
(ii)
Application of the adequate disclosure standard.
The information on the lower tiered entities is relevant and material in determining the value of the transferred interest in PS. Accordingly, because A has failed to comply with requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section regarding PS's interest in X, X's interest in PB, and PB's interest in the commercial real property, the transfer will not be considered adequately disclosed and the period of assessment for the transfer under section 6501 will remain open indefinitely.

# Example 5.
The facts are the same as in
Example 4
except that A submits, with the Federal tax return, an appraisal of the 25 percent limited partnership interest in PS that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section in lieu of the information required in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section. Assuming the other requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section are satisfied, the transfer is considered adequately disclosed and the period for assessment for the transfer under section 6501 will run from the time the return is filed (as determined under section 6501(b) of this chapter).

# Example 6.
A owns 100 percent of the stock of X Corporation, a company actively engaged in a manufacturing business. B, A's child, is an employee of X and receives an annual salary paid in the ordinary course of
operating X Corporation. B reports the annual salary as income on B's income tax returns. In 2001, A transfers property to family members and files a Federal gift tax return reporting the transfers. However, A does not disclose the 2001 salary payments made to B. Because the salary payments were reported as income on B's income tax return, the salary payments are deemed to be adequately disclosed. The transfer of property to family members, other than the salary payments to B, reported on the gift tax return must satisfy the adequate disclosure requirements under paragraph (f)(2) of this section in order for the period of assessment under section 6501 to commence to run with respect to those transfers.
(8)
Effective date.
This paragraph (f) is applicable to gifts made after December 31, 1996, for which the gift tax return for such calendar year is filed after December 3, 1999.
(g)
Listed transactions
—(1)
In general.
If a taxpayer is required to disclose a listed transaction under section 6011 and the regulations thereunder and does not do so in the time and manner required, then the time to assess any tax attributable to that listed transaction for the taxable year(s) to which the failure to disclose relates (as defined in paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section) will not expire before the earlier of one year after the date on which the taxpayer makes the disclosure described in paragraph (g)(5) of this section or one year after the date on which a material advisor makes a disclosure described in paragraph (g)(6) of this section. In no case will the operation of this paragraph (g) cause the period of limitations on assessment to expire any earlier than the period that would have otherwise applied under this section determined without regard to this paragraph (g)(1).
(2)
Limitations period if paragraph (g)(5) or (g)(6) is satisfied.
If one of the disclosure provisions described in paragraphs (g)(5) or (6) of this section is satisfied, then the tax attributable to the listed transaction may be assessed at any time before the expiration of the limitations period that would have otherwise applied under this section (determined without regard to paragraph (g)(1) of this section) or the period ending one year after the date that one of the disclosure provisions described in paragraphs (g)(5) or (6) of this section was satisfied, whichever is later. If both disclosure provisions are satisfied, the one-year period will begin on the earlier of the dates on which the provisions were satisfied. Paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply to any period of limitations on assessment that expired before the date on which the failure to disclose the listed transaction under section 6011 occurred.
(3)
Definitions
—(i)
Listed transaction.
The term
listed transaction
means a transaction described in section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(2) of this chapter.
(ii)
Material advisor.
The term
material advisor
means a person described in section 6111(b)(1) of the Code and § 301.6111-3(b) of this chapter.
(iii)
Taxable year(s) to which the failure to disclose relates.
The
taxable year(s) to which the failure to disclose relates
are each taxable year that the taxpayer participated (as defined under section 6011 and the regulations thereunder) in a transaction that was identified as a listed transaction and the taxpayer failed to disclose the listed transaction as required under section 6011. If the taxable year in which the taxpayer participated in the listed transaction is different from the taxable year in which the taxpayer is required to disclose the listed transaction under section 6011, the taxable year(s) to which the failure to disclose relates are each taxable year that the taxpayer participated in the transaction.
(4)
Application of paragraph with respect to pass-through entities.
In the case of taxpayers who are partners in partnerships, shareholders in S corporations, or beneficiaries of trusts and are required to disclose a listed transaction under section 6011 and the regulations thereunder, paragraph (g)(1) of this section will apply to a particular partner, shareholder, or beneficiary if that particular partner, shareholder, or beneficiary does not disclose within the time and in the form and manner provided by section 6011 and § 1.6011-4(d) and (e), regardless of whether the partnership, S corporation, or trust or another partner, shareholder, or beneficiary discloses in accordance with section 6011 and the regulations thereunder. Similarly, because paragraph
(g)(1) of this section applies on a taxpayer-by-taxpayer basis, the failure of a partnership, S corporation, or trust that has a disclosure obligation under section 6011 and that does not disclose within the time or in the form and manner provided by § 1.6011-4(d) and (e) will not cause paragraph (g)(1) of this section to apply to a partner, shareholder or beneficiary of the entity. Instead, the application of paragraph (g)(1) of this section to a partner, shareholder, or beneficiary will be determined based on whether the particular partner, shareholder, or beneficiary satisfied their disclosure obligation under section 6011 and the regulations thereunder.
(5)
Taxpayer's disclosure of a listed transaction that the taxpayer did not properly disclose under section 6011
—(i)
In general
—(A)
Method of disclosure.
The taxpayer must complete the most current version of Form 8886, “Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement” (or successor form), available on the date the taxpayer attempts to satisfy this paragraph (g)(5) in accordance with § 1.6011-4(d) and the instructions to the Form in effect on that date. The taxpayer must indicate on the Form 8886 that the form is being submitted for purposes of section 6501(c)(10) and the tax return(s) and taxable year(s) for which the taxpayer is making a section 6501(c)(10) disclosure. Disclosure under this paragraph (g)(5) will only be effective for the tax return(s) and taxable year(s) that the taxpayer specifies on the Form 8886 that he or she is attempting to disclose for purposes of section 6501(c)(10). If the Form 8886 contains a line for this purpose, then the taxpayer must complete the line in accordance with the instructions to that form. Otherwise, the taxpayer must include on the top of Page 1 of the Form 8886, and each copy of the form, the following statement: “
Section 6501(c)(10) Disclosure
” followed by the tax return(s) and taxable year(s) for which the taxpayer is making a section 6501(c)(10) disclosure. For example, if the taxpayer did not properly disclose its participation in a listed transaction the tax consequences of which were reflected on the taxpayer's Form 1040 for the 2005 taxable year, the taxpayer must include the following statement: “
Section 6501(c)(10) Disclosure; 2005 Form 1040
” on the form. The taxpayer must submit the properly completed Form 8886 and a cover letter, which must be completed in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (g)(5)(i)(B) of this section, to the Office of Tax Shelter Analysis (OTSA). The taxpayer is permitted, but not required, to file an amended return with the Form 8886 and cover letter. Separate Forms 8886 and separate cover letters must be submitted for each listed transaction the taxpayer did not properly disclose under section 6011. If the taxpayer participated in one listed transaction over multiple years, the taxpayer may submit one Form 8886 (or successor form) and cover letter and indicate on that form all of the tax returns and taxable years for which the taxpayer is making a section 6501(c)(10) disclosure. If a taxpayer participated in more than one listed transaction, then the taxpayer must submit separate Forms 8886 (or successor form) for each listed transaction, unless the listed transactions are the same or substantially similar, in which case all the listed transactions may be reported on one Form 8886.
(B)
Cover letter.
(
1
) A cover letter to which a Form 8886 is to be attached must identify the tax return(s) and taxable year(s) for which the taxpayer is making a section 6501(c)(10) disclosure and include the following statement signed under penalties of perjury by the taxpayer:
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this reportable transaction disclosure statement and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, this reportable transaction disclosure statement is true, correct, and complete.
(
2
) If the Form 8886 is prepared by a paid preparer, in addition to the statement under penalties of perjury signed by the taxpayer, the Form 8886 must also include the following statement signed under penalties of perjury by the paid preparer.
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this reportable transaction disclosure statement and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, this reportable transaction disclosure statement is true, correct, and complete. This declaration is based on
all information of which I, as paid preparer, have any knowledge.
(C)
Taxpayer under examination or Appeals consideration.
A taxpayer making a disclosure under paragraph (g)(5) of this section with respect to a taxable year under examination or Appeals consideration by the IRS must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (g)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section and also submit a copy of the submission to the IRS examiner or Appeals officer examining or considering the taxable year(s) to which the disclosure under this paragraph (g) relates.
(D)
Date the one-year period will begin to run if paragraph (g)(5) satisfied.
Unless an earlier expiration is provided for in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, the time to assess tax under this paragraph (g) will not expire before one year after the date on which the Secretary is furnished the information from the taxpayer that satisfies all of the requirements of paragraphs (g)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (g)(5)(i)(C) of this section. If the taxpayer does not satisfy all of the requirements on the same date, the one-year period will begin on the date that the IRS is furnished the information that, together with prior disclosures of information, satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (g)(5). For purposes of this paragraph (g)(5), the information is deemed furnished on the date the IRS receives the information.
(ii)
Exception for returns other than annual returns.
The IRS may prescribe alternative procedures to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (g)(5) in a revenue procedure, notice, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin for circumstances involving returns other than annual returns.
(6)
Material advisor's disclosure of a listed transaction not properly disclosed by a taxpayer under section 6011
—(i)
In general.
In response to a written request of the IRS under section 6112, a material advisor with respect to a listed transaction must furnish to the IRS the information described in section 6112 and § 301.6112-1(b) in the form and manner prescribed by section 6112 and § 301.6112-1(e). If the information the material advisor furnishes identifies the taxpayer as a person who entered into the listed transaction, regardless of whether the material advisor provides the information before or after the taxpayer's failure to disclose the listed transaction under section 6011, then the requirements of this paragraph (g)(6) will be satisfied for that taxpayer. The requirements of this paragraph (g)(6) will be considered satisfied even if the material advisor furnishes the information required under section 6112 to the IRS after the date prescribed in section 6708 or published guidance relating to section 6708.
(ii)
Paragraph (g)(6) not satisfied
—(A)
Information not furnished by a material advisor or a person permitted to act on behalf of the material advisor.
The requirements of this paragraph (g)(6) are not satisfied for a taxpayer unless the information is furnished by—
(
1
) A person who is a material advisor (as defined in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section) with respect to the taxpayer,
(
2
) A person who is providing the information pursuant to § 301.6112-1(d) on behalf of a dissolved or liquidated material advisor with respect to the taxpayer, or
(
3
) a person who is providing the information on behalf of a material advisor with respect to the taxpayer under a designation agreement in accordance with § 301.6112-1(f).
(B)
No written request by IRS.
The requirements of this paragraph (g)(6) are not satisfied unless the information is furnished in response to a written request made by the IRS to the material advisor under section 6112 (except as provided in § 301.6112-1(d) with respect to a list furnished to OTSA within 60 days after dissolution or liquidation of a material advisor).
(C)
Information furnished does not identify the taxpayer.
The requirements of this paragraph (g)(6) are not satisfied for a taxpayer unless the information furnished identifies the taxpayer as a person who entered into the listed transaction.
(iii)
Date the one-year period will begin if paragraph (g)(6) is satisfied.
Unless an earlier expiration is provided for in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, the time to assess tax under this paragraph (g) will expire one year after the date on which the material advisor satisfies
the requirements of paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section with respect to the taxpayer. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(6), information is deemed to be furnished on the date that, in response to a request under section 6112, the IRS receives the information from a material advisor that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section with respect to the taxpayer.
(7)
Tax assessable under this section.
If the period of limitations on assessment for a taxable year remains open under this section, the Secretary has authority to assess any tax with respect to the listed transaction in that year. This includes, but is not limited to, adjustments made to the tax consequences claimed on the return plus interest, additions to tax, additional amounts, and penalties that are related to the listed transaction or adjustments made to the tax consequences. This also includes any item to the extent the item is affected by the listed transaction even if it is unrelated to the listed transaction. An example of an item affected by, but unrelated to, a listed transaction is the threshold for the medical expense deduction under section 213 that varies if there is a change in an individual's adjusted gross income. An example of a penalty related to the listed transaction is the penalty under section 6707A for failure to file the disclosure statement reporting the taxpayer's participation in the listed transaction. Examples of penalties related to the adjustments made to the tax consequences are the accuracy-related penalties under sections 6662 and 6662A.
(8)
Examples.
The rules of this paragraph (g) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
No requirement to disclose under section 6011.
P, an individual, is a partner in a partnership that entered into a transaction in 2001 that was the same as or substantially similar to the transaction identified as a listed transaction in Notice 2000-44 (2000-2 CB 255). P claimed a loss from the transaction on his Form 1040 for the tax year 2001. P filed the Form 1040 prior to June 14, 2002. P did not disclose his participation in the listed transaction because P was not required to disclose the transaction under the applicable section 6011 regulations (TD 8961), which were effective for any transaction entered into before January 1, 2001 and any transaction entered into on or after January 1, 2001 that was reported on a return of the taxpayer filed on or before June 14, 2002. Although the transaction was a listed transaction and P did not disclose the transaction, P had no obligation to include on any return or statement any information with respect to a listed transaction within the meaning of section 6501(c)(10) because TD 8961 only applied to corporations, not individuals. Accordingly, section 6501(c)(10) does not apply.

# Example 2.
Taxable year to which the failure to disclose relates when transaction is identified as a listed transaction after first year of participation and the transaction must be disclosed with the return next filed.
(i) On December 30, 2003, Y, a corporation, enters into a transaction that at the time is not a reportable transaction. On March 15, 2004, Y timely files its 2003 Form 1120, reporting the tax consequences from the transaction. On April 1, 2004, the IRS issues Notice 2004-31 that identifies the transaction as a listed transaction. Y also reports tax consequences from the transaction on its 2004 Form 1120, which it timely filed on March 15, 2005. Y did not attach a completed Form 8886 to its 2004 Form 1120 and did not send a copy of the form to OTSA. The general three-year period of limitations on assessment for Y's 2003 and 2004 taxable years would expire on March 15, 2007, and March 17, 2008, respectively.
(ii) The period of limitations on assessment for Y's 2003 taxable year was open on the date the transaction was identified as a listed transaction. Under the applicable section 6011 regulations (TD 9108), which were effective for transactions entered into before August 3, 2007, Y should have disclosed its participation in the transaction with its next filed return, which was its 2004 Form 1120, but Y did not disclose its participation. Y's failure to disclose with the 2004 Form 1120 relates to taxable years 2003 and 2004. Section 6501(c)(10) operates to keep the period of limitations on assessment open for the 2003 and 2004 taxable years with respect to the listed transaction until at least one year after the date Y satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section or a material advisor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to Y.

# Example 3.
Taxable year to which the failure to disclose relates when transaction is identified as a listed transaction after the first year of participation and the transaction must be disclosed 90 days after the transaction became a listed transaction.
(i) In January 2015, A, a calendar year taxpayer, enters into a transaction that at the time is not a listed transaction. A reports the tax consequences from the transaction on its individual income tax return for 2015 timely filed on April 15, 2016. The time for the IRS to assess tax against A
under the general three-year period of limitations for A's 2015 taxable year would expire on April 15, 2019. A only participated in the transaction in 2015. On March 7, 2017, the IRS identifies the transaction as a listed transaction. A does not file the Form 8886 with OTSA by June 5, 2017.
(ii) The period of limitations on assessment for A's 2015 taxable year was open on the date the transaction was identified as a listed transaction. Under the current section 6011 regulations (TD 9350) which are effective for transactions entered into on or after August 3, 2007, A must disclose its participation in the transaction by filing a completed Form 8886 with OTSA on or before June 5, 2017, which is 90 days after the date the transaction became a listed transaction. A did not disclose the transaction as required. A's failure to disclose relates to taxable year 2015 even though the obligation to disclose did not arise until 2017. Section 6501(c)(10) operates to keep the period of limitations on assessment open for the 2015 taxable year with respect to the listed transaction until at least one year after the date A satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section or a material advisor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to A.

# Example 4.
Requirements of paragraph (g)(6) satisfied.
Same facts as
Example 3,
except that on April 5, 2019, the IRS hand delivers to Advisor J, who is a material advisor, a section 6112 request related to the listed transaction. Advisor J furnishes the required list with all the information required by section 6112 and § 301.6112-1, including all the information required with respect to A, to the IRS on May 8, 2019. The submission satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) even though Advisor J furnishes the information outside of the 20-business-day period provided in section 6708. Accordingly, under section 6501(c)(10), the period of limitations with respect to A's taxable year 2015 will end on May 8, 2020, one year after the IRS received the required information, unless the period of limitations remains open under another exception. Any tax for the 2015 taxable year not attributable to the listed transaction must be assessed by April 15, 2019.

# Example 5.
Requirements of paragraph (g)(5) also satisfied.
Same facts as
Examples 3 and 4,
except that on May 23, 2019, A files a properly completed Form 8886 and signed cover letter with OTSA both identifying that the section 6501(c)(10) disclosure relates to A's Form 1040 for 2015. A satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section as of May 23, 2019. Because the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) were satisfied first as described in
Example 4,
under section 6501(c)(10) the period of limitations will end on May 8, 2020 (one year after the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) were satisfied) instead of May 23, 2020 (one year after the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) were satisfied). Any tax for the 2015 taxable year not attributable to the listed transaction must be assessed by April 15, 2019.

# Example 6.
Period to assess tax remains open under another exception.
Same facts as
Examples 3, 4, and 5,
except that on April 1, 2019, A signed Form 872, consenting to extend, without restriction, its period of limitations on assessment for taxable year 2015 under section 6501(c)(4) until July 15, 2020. In that case, although under section 6501(c)(10) the period of limitations would otherwise expire on May 8, 2020, the IRS may assess tax with respect to the listed transaction (as well as any other item on the return covered by the Form 872 extension) at any time up to and including July 15, 2020, pursuant to section 6501(c)(4). Section 6501(c)(10) operates to extend the assessment period but not to shorten any other applicable assessment period.

# Example 7.
Requirements of (g)(5) not satisfied.
In 2015, X, a corporation, enters into a listed transaction. On March 15, 2016, X timely files its 2015 Form 1120, reporting the tax consequences from the transaction. X does not disclose the transaction as required under section 6011 when it files its 2015 return. The failure to disclose relates to taxable year 2015. On February 13, 2017, X completes and files a Form 8886 with respect to the listed transaction with OTSA but does not submit a cover letter, as required. The requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section have not been satisfied. Therefore, the time to assess tax against X with respect to the transaction for taxable year 2015 remains open under section 6501(c)(10).

# Example 8.
Section 6501(c)(10) applies to keep one partner's period of limitations on assessment open.
T and S are partners in a partnership, TS, that enters into a listed transaction in 2015. T and S each receive a Schedule K-1 from TS on April 11, 2016. On April 15, 2016, TS, T and S each file their 2015 returns. Under the applicable section 6011 regulations, TS, T, and S each are required to disclose the transaction. TS attaches a completed Form 8886 to its 2015 Form 1065 and sends a copy of Form 8886 to OTSA. Neither T nor S files a disclosure statement with their respective returns nor sends a copy to OTSA on April 15, 2016. On May 17, 2016, T timely files a completed Form 8886 with OTSA pursuant to § 1.6011-4(e)(1). T's disclosure is timely because T received the Schedule K-1 within 10 calendar days before the due date of the return and, thus, T had 60 calendar days to file Form 8886 with OTSA. TS and T properly disclosed the transaction in accordance with the applicable regulations under section 6011, but S did not. S's failure to disclose relates to taxable year 2015. The time to assess tax with respect to the transaction against S for 2015 remains open under section 6501(c)(10) even though TS and T disclosed the transaction.

# Example 9.
Section 6501(c)(10) satisfied before expiration of three-year period of limitations under section 6501(a).
Same facts as
Example 8,
except that on August 26, 2016, S satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section. No material advisor satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to S on a date earlier than August 26, 2016. Under section 6501(c)(10), the period of time in which the IRS may assess tax against S with respect to the listed transaction would expire no earlier than August 26, 2017, one year after the date S satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(5). As the general three-year period of limitations on assessment under section 6501(a) does not expire until April 15, 2019, the IRS will have until that date to assess any tax with respect to the listed transaction.

# Example 10.
No section 6112 request.
B, a calendar year taxpayer, entered into a listed transaction in 2015. B did not comply with the applicable disclosure requirements under section 6011 for taxable year 2015; therefore, section 6501(c)(10) applies to keep the period of limitations on assessment open with respect to the tax related to the transaction until at least one year after B satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section or a material advisor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to B. In June 2016, the IRS conducts a section 6700 investigation of Advisor K, who is a material advisor to B with respect to the listed transaction. During the course of the investigation, the IRS obtains the name, address, and TIN of all of Advisor K's clients who engaged in the transaction, including B. The information provided does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) with respect to B because the information was not provided pursuant to a section 6112 request. Therefore, the time to assess tax against B with respect to the transaction for taxable year 2015 remains open under section 6501(c)(10).

# Example 11.
Section 6112 request but the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) are not satisfied with respect to B.
Same facts as
Example 10,
except that on January 9, 2017, the IRS sends by certified mail a section 6112 request to Advisor L, who is another material advisor to B with respect to the listed transaction. Advisor L furnishes some of the information required under section 6112 and § 301.6112-1 to the IRS for inspection on January 17, 2017. The list includes information with respect to many clients of Advisor L, but it does not include any information with respect to B. The submission does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to B. Therefore, the time to assess tax against B with respect to the transaction for taxable year 2015 remains open under section 6501(c)(10).

# Example 12.
Section 6112 submission made before taxpayer failed to disclose a listed transaction.
Advisor M, who is a material advisor, advises C, an individual, in 2015 with respect to a transaction that is not a reportable transaction at that time. C files its return claiming the tax consequences of the transaction on April 15, 2016. The time for the IRS to assess tax against C under the general three-year period of limitations for C's 2015 taxable year would expire on April 15, 2019. The IRS identifies the transaction as a listed transaction on November 3, 2017. On December 7, 2017, the IRS hand delivers to Advisor M a section 6112 request related to the transaction. Advisor M furnishes the information to the IRS on December 29, 2017. The information contains all the required information with respect to Advisor M's clients, including C. C does not disclose the transaction on or before February 1, 2018, as required under section 6011 and the regulations under section 6011. Advisor M's submission under section 6112 satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section even though it occurred prior to C's failure to disclose the listed transaction. Thus, under section 6501(c)(10), the period of limitations to assess tax against C with respect to the listed transaction will end on December 29, 2018 (one year after the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section were satisfied), unless the period of limitations remains open under another exception.

# Example 13.
Transaction removed from the category of listed transactions after taxpayer failed to disclose.
D, a calendar year taxpayer, entered into a listed transaction in 2015. D did not comply with the applicable disclosure requirements under section 6011 for taxable year 2015; therefore, section 6501(c)(10) applies to keep the period of limitations on assessment open with respect to the tax related to the transaction until at least one year after D satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section or a material advisor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to D. In 2017, the IRS removes the transaction from the category of listed transactions because of a change in law. Section 6501(c)(10) continues to apply to keep the period of limitations on assessment open for D's taxable year 2015.

# Example 14.
Taxes assessed with respect to the listed transaction.
(i) F, an individual, enters into a listed transaction in 2015. F files its 2015 Form 1040 on April 15, 2016, but does not disclose his participation in the listed transaction in accordance with section 6011 and the regulations under section 6011. F's failure to disclose relates to taxable year 2015. Thus, section 6501(c)(10) applies to keep the period of limitations on assessment open with respect to the tax related to the listed transaction for taxable year 2015 until at least one year after the date F satisfies the
requirements of paragraph (g)(5) of this section or a material advisor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(6) of this section with respect to F.
(ii) On July 2, 2020, the IRS completes an examination of F's 2015 taxable year and disallows the tax consequences claimed as a result of the listed transaction. The disallowance of a loss increased F's adjusted gross income. Due to the increase of F's adjusted gross income, certain credits, such as the child tax credit, and exemption deductions were disallowed or reduced because of limitations based on adjusted gross income. In addition, F now is liable for the alternative minimum tax. The examination also uncovered that F claimed two deductions on Schedule C to which F was not entitled. Under section 6501(c)(10), the IRS can timely issue a statutory notice of deficiency (and assess in due course) against F for the deficiency resulting from (1) disallowing the loss, (2) disallowing the credits and exemptions to which F was not entitled based on F's increased adjusted gross income, and (3) being liable for the alternative minimum tax. In addition, the IRS can assess any interest and applicable penalties related to those adjustments, such as the accuracy-related penalty under sections 6662 and 6662A and the penalty under section 6707A for F's failure to disclose the transaction as required under section 6011 and the regulations under section 6011. The IRS cannot, however, pursuant to section 6501(c)(10), assess the increase in tax that would result from disallowing the two deductions on F's Schedule C because those deductions are not related to, or affected by, the adjustments concerning the listed transaction.
(9)
Effective/applicability date.
The rules of this paragraph (g) apply to taxable years with respect to which the period of limitations on assessment under section 6501 (including subsection (c)(10)) did not expire before March 31, 2015.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44250, Oct. 7, 1982; T.D. 8395, 57 FR 4277, Feb. 4, 1992; T.D. 8845, 64 FR 67771, Dec. 3, 1999; 65 FR 1059, Jan. 7, 2000; T.D. 9718, 80 FR 16976, Mar. 31, 2015; T.D. 9718, 80 FR 23444, Apr. 28, 2015]
§ 301.6501(d)-1
Request for prompt assessment.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in section 6501 (c), (e), or (f), any tax for which a return is required and for which:
(1) A decedent or an estate of a decedent may be liable, other than the estate tax imposed by chapter 11 of the Code, or
(2) A corporation which is contemplating dissolution, is in the process of dissolution, or has been dissolved, may be liable, shall be assessed, or a proceeding in court without assessment for the collection of such tax shall be begun, within 18 months after the receipt of a written request for prompt assessment thereof.
(b) The executor, administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of the decedent, or the corporation, or the fiduciary representing the dissolved corporation, as the case may be, shall, after the return in question has been filed, file the request for prompt assessment in writing with the district director for the internal revenue district in which such return was filed. The request, in order to be effective, must be transmitted separately from any other document, must set forth the classes of tax and the taxable periods for which the prompt assessment is requested, and must clearly indicate that it is a request for prompt assessment under the provisions of section 6501(d). The effect of such a request is to limit the time in which an assessment of tax may be made, or a proceeding in court without assessment for collection of tax may be begun, to a period of 18 months from the date the request is filed with the proper district director. The request does not extend the time within which an assessment may be made, or a proceeding in court without assessment years from the date the return was filed. This special period of limitations will not apply to any return filed after a request for prompt assessment has been made unless an additional request is filed in the manner provided herein.
(c) In the case of a corporation the 18-month period shall not apply unless:
(1) The written request notifies the district director that the corporation contemplates dissolution at or before the expiration of such 18-month period; the dissolution is in good faith begun before the expiration of such 18-month period; and the dissolution so begun is completed either before or after the expiration of such 18-month period; or
(2) The written request notifies the district director that a dissolution has in good faith been begun, and the dissolution is completed either before or
after the expiration of such 18-month period; or
(3) A dissolution has been completed at the time the written request is made.
§ 301.6501(e)-1
Omission from return.
(a)
Income taxes
—(1)
General rule.
(i) If a taxpayer omits from the gross income stated in the return of a tax imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code an amount properly includible therein that is in excess of 25 percent of the gross income so stated, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of that tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the term
gross income,
as it relates to a trade or business, means the total of the amounts received or accrued from the sale of goods or services, to the extent required to be shown on the return, without reduction for the cost of those goods or services.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the term
gross income,
as it relates to any income other than from the sale of goods or services in a trade or business, has the same meaning as provided under section 61(a), and includes the total of the amounts received or accrued, to the extent required to be shown on the return. In the case of amounts received or accrued that relate to the disposition of property, and except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section,
gross income
means the excess of the amount realized from the disposition of the property over the unrecovered cost or other basis of the property. Consequently, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, an understated amount of gross income resulting from an overstatement of unrecovered cost or other basis constitutes an omission from gross income for purposes of section 6501(e)(1)(A)(i).
(iv) An amount shall not be considered as omitted from gross income if information sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the nature and amount of the item is disclosed in the return, including any schedule or statement attached to the return.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Estate and gift taxes
—(1) If the taxpayer omits from the gross estate as stated in the estate tax return, or from the total amount of the gifts made during the period for which the gift tax return was filed (see § 25.6019-1 of this chapter) as stated in the gift tax return, an item or items properly includible therein the amount of which is in excess of 25 percent of the gross estate as stated in the estate tax return, or 25 percent of the total amount of the gifts as stated in the gift tax return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection thereof may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the estate tax or gift tax return, as applicable, was filed.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), an item disclosed in the return or in any schedule or statement attached to the return in a manner sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the nature and amount thereof shall not be taken into account in determining items omitted from the gross estate or total gifts, as the case may be. Further, there shall not be taken into account in computing the 25 percent omission from the gross estate stated in the estate tax return or from the total gifts stated in the gift tax return, any increases in the valuation of assets disclosed on the return.
(c)
Excise taxes
—(1)
In general.
If the taxpayer omits from a return of a tax imposed under a provision of subtitle D an amount properly includible thereon, which amount is in excess of 25 percent of the amount of tax reported thereon, the tax may be assessed or a proceeding in court for the collection thereof may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed. For special rules relating to chapter 41, 42, 43 and 44 taxes, see paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section.
(2)
Chapter 41 excise taxes.
If an organization discloses an expenditure in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto) in a manner sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the existence and nature of the expenditure, the three-year limitation on assessment and collection described in section 6501(a) shall apply with respect to any tax under chapter 41 arising
from the expenditure. If a taxpayer fails to so disclose an expenditure in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto), the tax arising from the expenditure not so disclosed may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed.
(3)
Chapter 42 excise taxes.
(i) If a private foundation omits from its annual return with respect to the tax imposed by section 4940 an amount of tax properly includible therein that is in excess of 25 percent of the amount of tax imposed by section 4940 that is reported on the return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed. If a private foundation discloses in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto) the nature, source, and amount of any income giving rise to any omitted tax, the tax arising from the income shall be counted as reported on the return in computing whether the foundation has omitted more than 25 percent of the tax reported on its return.
(ii) If a private foundation, trust, or other organization (as the case may be) discloses an item in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto) in a manner sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the existence and nature of the item, the three-year limitation on assessment and collection described in section 6501(a) shall apply with respect to any tax imposed under sections 4941(a), 4942(a), 4943(a), 4944(a), 4945(a), 4951(a), 4952(a), 4953 and 4958, arising from any transaction disclosed by the item. If a private foundation, trust, or other organization (as the case may be) fails to so disclose an item in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto), the tax arising from any transaction not so disclosed may be assessed or a proceeding in court for the collection of the tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed.
(4)
Chapter 43 excise taxes.
If a taxpayer discloses an item in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto) in a manner sufficient to apprise the Commissioner of the existence and nature of the item, the three-year limitation on assessment and collection described in section 6501(a) shall apply with respect to any tax imposed under sections 4971(a), 4972, 4973, 4974 and 4975(a), arising from any transaction disclosed by the item. If a taxpayer fails to so disclose an item in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto), the tax arising from any transaction not so disclosed may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed. The applicable return for the tax under sections 4971, 4972, 4973 and 4974, is the return designated by the Commissioner for reporting the respective tax. The applicable return for the tax under section 4975 is the return filed by the plan used to report the act giving rise to the tax.
(5)
Chapter 44 excise taxes.
If a real estate investment trust omits from its annual return with respect to the tax imposed by section 4981 an amount of tax properly includible therein that is in excess of 25 percent of the amount of tax imposed by section 4981 that is reported on the return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of the tax may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return was filed. If a real estate investment trust discloses in its return (or in a schedule or statement attached thereto) the nature, source, and amount of any income giving rise to any omitted tax, the tax arising from the income shall be counted as reported on the return in computing whether the trust has omitted more than 25 percent of the tax reported on its return.
(d)
Exception.
The provisions of this section do not limit the application of section 6501(c).
(e)
Effective/applicability date
—(1)
Income taxes.
Paragraph (a) of this section applies to taxable years with respect to which the period for assessing tax was open on or after September 24, 2009.
(2)
Estate, gift and excise taxes.
Paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section continue to apply as they did prior to
being removed inadvertently on September 28, 2009. Specifically, paragraph (b) of this section applies to returns filed on or after May 2, 1956, except for the amendment to paragraph (b)(1) of this section that applies to returns filed on or after December 29, 1972. Paragraph (c) of this section applies to returns filed on or after October 7, 1982, except for the amendment to paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section that applies to returns filed on or after January 10, 2001. Paragraph (d) of this section applies to returns filed on or after May 2, 1956.
[T.D. 9511, 75 FR 78899, Dec. 17, 2010]
§ 301.6501(f)-1
Personal holding company tax.
If a corporation which is a personal holding company for any taxable year fails to file with its income tax return for such year a schedule setting forth the items of gross income described in section 543(a) received by the corporation during such year, and the names and addresses of the individuals who owned, within the meaning of section 544, at any time during the last half of such taxable year, more than 50 percent in value of the outstanding capital stock of the corporation, the personal holding company tax for such year may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection thereof may be begun without assessment, at any time within 6 years after the return for such year was filed.
§ 301.6501(g)-1
Certain income tax returns of corporations.
(a)
Trusts or partnerships.
If a taxpayer determines in good faith that it is a trust or partnership and files a return as such under subtitle A of the Code, and if the taxpayer is later held to be a corporation for the taxable year for which the return was filed, such return shall be deemed to be the return of the corporation for the purpose of section 6501.
(b)
Exempt organizations.
If a taxpayer determines in good faith that it is an exempt organization and files a return as such under section 6033, and if the taxpayer is later held to be a taxable organization for the taxable year for which the return was filed, such return shall be deemed to be the return of the organization for the purpose of section 6501.
(c)
DISC.
If a corporation determines in good faith that it is a DISC (as defined in section 992(a)(1)) for a taxable year and files a return as such pursuant to section 6011(c)(2), and if the corporation is thereafter held to be a corporation which is not a DISC for the taxable year for which the return was filed, then—
(1) Such return shall be deemed to be the return of the corporation for the purpose of section 6501.
(2) Such return if filed within the time required by section 6072(b) for filing a DISC return shall be deemed to be filed within the time required by section 6072(b) for filing of a return by a corporation which is not a DISC, and
(3) Interest on underpayment and overpayments allowed by chapter 67 of the Code and additions to the tax, additional amounts and assessable penalties allowed by chapter 68 of the Code, when determined by reference to the time for filing of a return, shall be determined by reference to the time required by section 6072(b) for filing of a return by a DISC.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7533, 43 FR 6604, Feb. 15, 1978]
§ 301.6501(h)-1
Net operating loss or capital loss carrybacks.
In the case of a deficiency attributable to the application to the taxpayer of a net operating loss or capital loss carryback (including deficiencies which may be assessed pursuant to the provisions of section 6213(b)(2)), such deficiency may be assessed at any time before the expiration of the period within which a deficiency for the taxable year of the net operating loss or net capital loss which results in such carryback may be assessed. In the case of a deficiency attributable to the application of a net operating loss carryback, such deficiency may be assessed within 18 months after the date on which the taxpayer files in accordance with section 172(b)(3) a copy of the certification (with respect to such taxable year) issued under section 317 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, if
later than the date prescribed by the preceding sentence.
[T.D. 7301, 39 FR 974, Jan. 4, 1974]
§ 301.6501(i)-1
Foreign tax carrybacks; taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957.
With respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, a deficiency attributable to the application to the taxpayer of a carryback under section 904(d) (relating to carryback and carryover of excess foreign taxes), may be assessed at any time before the expiration of 1 year after the expiration of the period within which a deficiency may be assessed for the taxable year of the excess taxes described in section 904(d) which result in such carryback.
§ 301.6501(j)-1
Investment credit carryback; taxable years ending after December 31, 1961.
With respect to taxable years ending after December 31, 1961, a deficiency attributable to the application to the taxpayer of an investment credit carryback may be assessed at any time before the expiration of the period within which a deficiency for the taxable year of the unused investment credit which results in such carryback may be assessed, or, with respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss or capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year, at any time before the expiration of the period within which a deficiency for such subsequent taxable year may be assessed. For purposes of this section a deficiency shall include a deficiency which may be assessed pursuant to the provisions of section 6213(b)(2), but only those arising with respect to applications for tentative carryback adjustments filed after November 2, 1966.
[T.D. 7301, 39 FR 975, Jan. 4, 1974]
§ 301.6501(m)-1
Tentative carryback adjustment assessment period.
(a)
Period of limitation after tentative carryback adjustment.
(1) Under section 6501(m), in a case where an amount has been applied, credited, or refunded under section 6411, by reason of a net operating loss carryback, a capital loss carryback, an investment credit carryback, or a work incentive program credit carryback to a prior taxable year, the period described in section 6501(a) of the Code for assessing a deficiency for such prior taxable year is extended to include the period described in section 6501 (h), (j), or (o), whichever is applicable; except that the amount which may be assessed solely by reason of section 6501(m) may not exceed the amount so applied, credited, or refunded under section 6411, reduced by any amount which may be assessed solely by reason of section 6501 (h), (j), or (o), as the case may be.
(2) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Assume that M Corporation, which claims an unused investment credit of $50,000 for the calendar year 1968, files an application under section 6411 of the Code for an adjustment of its tax for 1965, and receives a refund of $50,000 in 1969. In 1971, it is determined that the amount of the unused investment credit for 1968 is $30,000 rather than $50,000. Moreover, it is determined that M Corporation would have owed $40,000 of additional tax for 1965 if it had properly reported certain income which it failed to include in its 1965 return. Assuming that M Corporation filed its 1968 return on March 15, 1969, and that the 3-year period described in section 6501(a) has not been extended, the period prescribed in section 6501(j) for assessing the excessive amount refunded, $20,000 (
i.e.,
$50,000, original amount refunded less $30,000, correct amount of unused investment credit), does not expire until March 15, 1972, and $20,000 may be assessed on or before such date under section 6501(j). Under section 6501(m), M Corporation may be assessed on or before March 15, 1972, an amount not in excess of $30,000 ($50,000, the amount refunded under section 6411, minus $20,000, the amount which may be assessed solely by reason of section 6501 (j)).
(b)
Effective date.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply only with respect to applications under section 6411 filed after November 2, 1966.
[T.D. 7301, 39 FR 975, Jan. 4, 1974]
§ 301.6501(n)-1
Special rules for chapter 42 and similar taxes.
(a)
Return filed by private foundation, plan, trust, or other organization.
(1) A return filed by a private foundation, plan, trust, or other organization (as the case may be) with respect to any
act giving rise to a tax imposed by chapter 42 (other than a tax imposed by section 4940), or by section 4975 shall be considered, for purposes of section 6501, to be the return of all persons required to file a return with respect to any such tax arising from such act, notwithstanding that all such persons have not signed the return. In the case of a private foundation that files a Form 990-PF (or a Form 5227 in the case of a nonexempt foundation described in section 4947(a)(2)), which contains questions with respect to such taxes, the filing of such form by such foundation shall constitute the filing of a return with respect to any such act, even though the foundation incorrectly answered such questions.
(2) For purposes of section 4940, the return referred to in this section is the return filed by the private foundation for the taxable year for which the tax is imposed.
(b)
Failure of private foundation plan, trust, or other organization to file.
The period of limitations on assessment and collection described in section 6501 does not begin with respect to any person liable for tax under chapter 42 (other than section 4940) or section 4975 arising from a given act, where the private foundation, plan, trust, or other organization (as the case may be) has not filed its required return that reports such act for the year in which the act (or failure to act) giving rise to liability for such tax occurred.
(c)
Example.
The provision of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
In 1973, D, an individual taxpayer who was a disqualified person under the provisions of section 4946(a)(1), participated in an act of self-dealing with a private foundation and incurred a tax under section 4941(a)(1). On May 15, 1974, the private foundation files a Form 990-PF and answers all the questions thereon with regard to any acts of self-dealing (as defined in section 4941(d)) in which it may have engaged in 1973. Assuming that the foundation's return was not a false or fraudulent return nor made with the willful attempt to defeat tax, the period of limitations on assessment and collection under section 6501(a) shall start with respect to any tax under section 4941(a) or section 4941(b) imposed on D arising out of that transaction with such foundation.
[T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44251, Oct. 7, 1982, as amended by T.D. 8920, 66 FR 2171, Jan. 10, 2001]
§ 301.6501(n)-2
Certain contributions to section 501(c)(3) organizations.
If a private foundation makes a contribution to a section 501(c)(3) organization as provided in section 4942(g)(3), and a deficiency of tax of such foundation occurs due to the failure of the section 501(c)(3) organization to make the distribution prescribed by section 4942(g)(3), then such deficiency may be assessed within one year after the expiration of the period within which a deficiency may be assessed for the taxable year with respect to which the contribution was made.
[T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44251, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6501(n)-3
Certain set-asides described in section 4942(g)(2).
Where a deficiency of tax of a private foundation results from the failure of an amount set aside by such foundation for a specific project to be treated as a qualifying distribution under section 4942(g)(2)(B)(ii)(II), such deficiency may be assessed within two years after the expiration of the period within which a deficiency may be assessed for the taxable year to which the amount set aside relates.
[T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44251, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6502-1
Collection after assessment.
(a)
General rule.
In any case in which a tax has been assessed within the applicable statutory period of limitations on assessment, a proceeding in court to collect the tax may be commenced, or a levy to collect the tax may be made, within 10 years after the date of assessment.
(b)
Agreement to extend the period of limitations on collection.
The Secretary may enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to extend the period of limitations on collection in the following circumstances:
(1)
Extension agreement entered into in connection with an installment agreement.
If the Secretary and the taxpayer enter into an installment agreement
for the tax liability prior to the expiration of the period of limitations on collection, the Secretary and the taxpayer, at the time the installment agreement is entered into, may enter into a written agreement to extend the period of limitations on collection to a date certain. A written extension agreement entered into under this paragraph shall extend the period of limitations on collection until the 89th day after the date agreed upon in the written agreement.
(2)
Extension agreement entered into in connection with the release of a levy under section 6343.
If the Secretary has levied on any part of the taxpayer's property prior to the expiration of the period of limitations on collection and the levy is subsequently released pursuant to section 6343 after the expiration of the period of limitations on collection, the Secretary and the taxpayer, prior to the release of the levy, may enter into a written agreement to extend the period of limitations on collection to a date certain. A written extension agreement entered into under this paragraph shall extend the period of limitations on collection until the date agreed upon in the extension agreement.
(c)
Proceeding in court for the collection of the tax.
If a proceeding in court for the collection of a tax is begun within the period provided in paragraph (a) of this section (or within any extended period as provided in paragraph (b) of this section), the period during which the tax may be collected by levy is extended until the liability for the tax or a judgment against the taxpayer arising from the liability is satisfied or becomes unenforceable.
(d)
Effect of statutory suspensions of the period of limitations on collection if executed collection extension agreement is in effect.
(1) Any statutory suspension of the period of limitations on collection tolls the running of the period of limitations on collection, as extended pursuant to an executed extension agreement under paragraph (b) of this section, for the amount of time set forth in the relevant statute.
(2) The following example illustrates the principle set forth in this paragraph (d):

# Example.
In June of 2003, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) enters into an installment agreement with the taxpayer to provide for periodic payments of the taxpayer's timely assessed tax liabilities. At the time the installment agreement is entered into, the taxpayer and the IRS execute a written agreement to extend the period of limitations on collection. The extension agreement executed in connection with the installment agreement operates to extend the period of limitations on collection to the date agreed upon in the extension agreement, plus 89 days. Subsequently, and prior to the expiration of the extended period of limitations on collection, the taxpayer files a bankruptcy petition under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code and receives a discharge from bankruptcy a few months later. Assuming the tax is not discharged in the bankruptcy, section 6503(h) of the Internal Revenue Code operates to suspend the running of the previously extended period of limitations on collection for the period of time the IRS is prohibited from collecting due to the bankruptcy proceeding, and for 6 months thereafter. The new expiration date for the IRS to collect the tax is the date agreed upon in the previously executed extension agreement, plus 89 days, plus the period during which the IRS is prohibited from collecting due to the bankruptcy proceeding, plus 6 months.
(e)
Date when levy is considered made.
The date on which a levy on property or rights to property is considered made is the date on which the notice of seizure required under section 6335(a) is given.
(f)
Effective date.
This section is applicable on September 6, 2006.
[T.D. 9284, 71 FR 52445, Sept. 6, 2006]
§ 301.6503(a)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; issuance of statutory notice of deficiency.
(a)
General rule.
(1) Upon the mailing of a notice of deficiency for income, estate, gift, chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax under the provisions of section 6212, the period of limitation on assessment and collection of any deficiency is suspended for 90 days after the mailing of a notice of such deficiency if the notice of deficiency is addressed to a person within the States of the Union and the District of Columbia, or 150 days if such notice of deficiency is addressed to a person outside the States of the Union and the District of Columbia (not counting Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday in the District of Columbia as the 90th or 150th day), plus an
additional 60 days thereafter in either case. If a proceeding in respect of the deficiency is placed on the docket of the Tax Court, the period of limitation is suspended until the decision of the Tax Court becomes final, and for an additional 60 days thereafter. If a notice of deficiency is mailed to a taxpayer within the period of limitation and the taxpayer does not appeal therefrom to the Tax Court, the notice of deficiency so given does not suspend the running of the period of limitation with respect to any additional deficiency shown to be due in a subsequent deficiency notice.
(2) This paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
A taxpayer filed a return for the calendar year 1973 on April 15, 1974; the notice of deficiency was mailed to him (at an address within the United States) on April 15, 1977; and he filed a petition with the Tax Court on July 14, 1977. The decision of the Tax Court became final on November 6, 1978. The running of the period of limitation for assessment is suspended from April 15, 1977, to January 5, 1979, which date is 60 days after the date (November 6, 1978), on which the decision became final. If in this example the taxpayer had failed to file a petition with the Tax Court, the running of the period of limitation for assessment would then be suspended from April 15, 1977 (the date of notice), to September 12, 1977 (that is, for the 90-day period in which he could file a petition with the Tax Court, and for 60 days thereafter).
(3) For provisions relating to suspension of the running of the period of limitation with respect to collection of “second tier” excise taxes (as defined in section 4963) until final resolution of a refund proceeding described in sections 4961 and 7422 for the determination of the taxpayer's liability for the second tier taxes, see § 53.4961-2 (e)(4).
(b)
Corporations joining in consolidated return.
If a notice under section 6212(a) with respect to a deficiency in tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code for any taxable year is mailed to a corporation, the suspension of the running of the period of limitation provided in section 6503(a)(1) shall apply in the case of corporations with which such corporation made a consolidated income tax return for such taxable year. Under § 1.1502-77(a) of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations), relating to consolidated returns, notices of deficiency are mailed only to the common parent.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7244, 37 FR 28898, Dec. 30, 1972; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44251, Oct. 7, 1982; T.D. 8084, 51 FR 16305, May 2, 1986]
§ 301.6503(b)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; assets of taxpayer in control or custody of court.
Where all or substantially all of the assets of a taxpayer are in the control or custody of the court in any proceeding before any court of the United States, or of any State of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 is suspended with respect to the outstanding amount due on the assessment for the period such assets are in the control or custody of the court, and for 6 months thereafter. In the case of an estate of a decedent or an incompetent, the period of limitations on collection is suspended only for periods beginning after November 2, 1966, during which assets are in the control or custody of a court, and for 6 months thereafter.
[T.D. 7121, 36 FR 10782, June 3, 1971]
§ 301.6503(c)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; location of property outside the United States or removal of property from the United States; taxpayer outside of United States.
(a)
Property located outside, or removed from, the United States prior to November 3, 1966.
The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 is suspended for the period of time, prior to November 3, 1966, that collection is hindered or delayed because property of the taxpayer is situated or held outside the United States or is removed from the United States. The total suspension of time under this provision shall not in the aggregate exceed 6 years. In any case in which the district director determines that collection is so hindered or delayed, he shall make and retain in the files of his office a written report which shall identify the taxpayer and the tax liability, shall show what steps were taken to collect
the tax liability, shall state the grounds for his determination that property of the taxpayer is situated or held outside, or is removed from, the United States, and shall show the date on which it was first determined that collection was so hindered or delayed. The term “property” includes all property or rights to property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, belonging to the taxpayer. The suspension of the running of the period of limitations on collection shall be considered to begin on the date so determined by the district director. A copy of the report shall be mailed to the taxpayer at his last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2.
(b)
Taxpayer outside United States after November 2, 1966.
The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 (relating to collection after assessment) is suspended for the period after November 2, 1966, during which the taxpayer is absent from the United States if such period is a continuous period of absence from the United States extending for 6 months or more. In a case where the running of the period of limitations has been suspended under the first sentence of this paragraph and at the time of the taxpayer's return to the United States the period of limitations would expire before the expiration of 6 months from the date of his return, the period of limitations shall not expire until after 6 months from the date of the taxpayer's return. The taxpayer will be deemed to be absent from the United States for purposes of this section if he is generally and substantially absent from the United States, even though he makes casual temporary visits during the period.
[T.D. 7121, 36 FR 10782, June 3, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2821, Jan. 12, 2001]
§ 301.6503(d)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; extension of time for payment of estate tax.
Where an estate is granted an extension of time as provided in section 6161 (a)(2) or (b)(2), or under the provisions of section 6166, for payment of any estate tax, the running of the period of limitations for collection of such tax is suspended for the period of time for which the extension is granted.
§ 301.6503(e)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; certain powers of appointment.
Where the estate of a decedent is allowed an estate tax charitable deduction under the provisions of section 2055(b)(2) (with respect to property over which the decedent's surviving spouse was given a power of appointment exercisable in favor of charitable organizations) subject to the later disallowance of the deduction if all conditions set forth in section 2055(b)(2) are not complied with, the running of the period of limitation for assessment or collection of any estate tax imposed on the decedent's estate is suspended until 30 days after the expiration of the period for assessment or collection of the estate tax imposed on the estate of the decedent's surviving spouse.
§ 301.6503(f)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitation; wrongful seizure of property of third-party owner and discharge of lien for substitution of value.
(a)
Wrongful seizure.
The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 (relating to collection after assessment) shall be suspended for a period equal to a period beginning on the date property (including money) is wrongfully seized or received by the appropriate official and ending on the date 30 days after the date on which the appropriate official returns the property pursuant to section 6343(b) (relating to authority to return property) or the date 30 days after the date on which a judgment secured pursuant to section 7426 (relating to civil actions by persons other than taxpayers) with respect to such property becomes final. The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment shall be suspended under this section only with respect to the amount of such assessment which is equal to the amount of money or the value of specific property returned. This section applies in the case of property wrongfully seized or received after November 2, 1966. The following example illustrates the principles of this section:

# Example.
On June 1, 1968 (at which time 10 months remain before the period of limitations on collection after assessment will expire), the appropriate official wrongfully seizes $1,000 in B's account in Bank X and properly seizes $500 in taxpayer A's account in Bank Y in an attempt to satisfy A's assessed tax liability of $1,500. The appropriate official determines that the $1,000 seized in Bank X was not the property of taxpayer A and, on March 1, 1969, he returns the $1,000 to B. As a result of the wrongful seizure, the running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment of the amount owed by taxpayer A is suspended for the 9-month period (beginning June 1, 1968, when the money was wrongfully seized and ending March 1, 1969, when the money was returned to B), plus 30 days. Therefore, the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 will not expire until February 1, 1970, which is 10 months plus 30 days after the money was returned.
(b)
Discharge of wrongful lien for substitution of value.
If a person other than the taxpayer submits a request in writing for a certificate of discharge for a filed Federal tax lien under section 6325(b)(4), the running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment under section 6502 for any liability listed in such notice of Federal tax lien shall be suspended for a period equal to the period beginning on the date the appropriate official receives a deposit or bond in the amount specified in § 301.6325-1(b)(4)(i) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the earlier of—
(1) The date the appropriate official no longer holds, or is deemed to no longer hold, within the meaning of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, any amount as a deposit or bond by reason of taking such actions as prescribed in sections 6325(b)(4)(B) and (C); or
(2) The date the judgment secured under section 7426(b)(5) becomes final.
(c) As used in this section, the term
appropriate official
means either the official or office identified in the relevant IRS Publication or, if such official or office is not so identified, the Secretary or his delegate.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to any request for a certificate of discharge made after January 31, 2008.
[T.D. 7121, 36 FR 10783, June 3, 1971. Redesignated by T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982; 73 FR 5744, Jan. 31, 2008]
§ 301.6503(g)-1
Suspension pending correction.
The running of the periods of limitations provided in sections 6501 and 6502 on the making of assessments, the collection by levy, or a proceeding in court in respect of any tax imposed by chapter 42 or section 507, 4971, or 4975 shall be suspended for any period described in section 507(g)(2) or during which the Commissioner has extended the time for making correction under section 4963(e)(1)(B).
[T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982, as amended by T.D. 8084, 51 FR 16305, May 2, 1986]
§ 301.6503(j)-1
Suspension of running of period of limitations; extension in case of designated and related summonses.
(a)
General rule.
The running of the applicable period of limitations on assessment provided for in section 6501 is suspended with respect to any return of tax by a corporation that is the subject of a designated or related summons if a court proceeding is instituted with respect to that summons.
(b)
Period of suspension.
The period of suspension is the time during which the running of the applicable period of limitations on assessment provided for in section 6501 is suspended under section 6503(j). If a court requires any compliance with a designated or related summons by ordering that any record, document, paper, object, or items be produced, or the testimony of any person be given, the period of suspension consists of the judicial enforcement period plus 120 days. If a court does not require any compliance with a designated or related summons, the period of suspension consists of the judicial enforcement period, and the period of limitations on assessment provided in section 6501 shall not expire before the 60th day after the close of the judicial enforcement period.
(c)
Definitions
—(1) A
designated summons
is a summons issued to a corporation (or to any other person to whom the corporation has transferred records) with respect to any return of tax by such corporation for a taxable period for which such corporation is being examined under the coordinated industry case program or any other
successor to the coordinated examination program if—
(i) The Division Commissioner and the Division Counsel of the Office of Chief Counsel (or their successors) for the organizations that have jurisdiction over the corporation whose tax liability is the subject of the summons have reviewed the summons before it is issued;
(ii) The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issues the summons at least 60 days before the day the period prescribed in section 6501 for the assessment of tax expires (determined with regard to extensions); and
(iii) The summons states that it is a designated summons for purposes of section 6503(j).
(2) A
related summons
is any summons issued that—
(i) Relates to the same return of the corporation under examination as the designated summons; and
(ii) Is issued to any person, including the person to whom the designated summons was issued, during the 30-day period that begins on the day the designated summons is issued.
(3) The
judicial enforcement period
is the period that begins on the day on which a court proceeding is instituted with respect to a designated or related summons and ends on the day on which there is a final resolution as to the summoned person's response to that summons.
(4)
Court proceeding
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of this section, a
court proceeding
is a proceeding filed in a United States district court either to quash a designated or related summons under section 7609(b)(2) or to enforce a designated or related summons under section 7604. A court proceeding includes any collateral proceeding, such as a civil contempt proceeding.
(ii)
Date when proceeding is no longer pending.
A proceeding to quash or to enforce a designated or related summons is no longer pending when all appeals (including review by the Supreme Court) are disposed of or after the expiration of the period in which an appeal may be taken or a request for further review (including review by the Supreme Court) may be made. If, however, following an enforcement order, a collateral proceeding is brought challenging whether the testimony given or production made by the summoned party fully satisfied the court order and whether sanctions should be imposed against the summoned party for a failure to so testify or produce, the proceeding to quash or to enforce the summons shall include the time from which the proceeding to quash or to enforce the summons was brought until the decision in the collateral proceeding becomes final. The decision becomes final on the date when all appeals (including review by the Supreme Court) are disposed of or when all appeal periods or all periods for further review (including review by the Supreme Court) expire. A decision in a collateral proceeding becomes final when all appeals (including review by the Supreme Court) are disposed of or when all appeal periods or all periods for further review (including review by the Supreme Court) expire.
(5)
Compliance
—(i)
In general.
Compliance
is the giving of testimony or the performance of an act or acts of production, or both, in response to a court order concerning the designated or related summons and the determination that the terms of the court order have been satisfied.
(ii)
Date compliance occurs.
Compliance with a court order that wholly denies enforcement of a designated or related summons is deemed to occur on the date when all appeals (including review by the Supreme Court) are disposed of or when the period in which an appeal may be taken or a request for further review (including review by the Supreme Court) may be made expires. Compliance with a court order that grants enforcement, in whole or in part, of a designated or related summons, occurs on the date the IRS determines that the testimony given, or the books, papers, records, or other data produced, or both, by the summoned party fully satisfy the court order concerning the summons. The IRS will determine whether there has been full compliance within a reasonable time, given the volume and complexity of the records produced, after the later of the giving of all testimony or the production of all records requested by the summons or required by any order enforcing any part of the
summons. If, following an enforcement order, collateral proceedings are brought challenging whether the production made by the summoned party fully satisfied the court order and whether sanctions should be imposed against the summoned party for a failing to do so, the suspension of the periods of limitations shall continue until the order enforcing any part of the summons is fully complied with and the decision in the collateral proceeding becomes final. A decision in a collateral proceeding becomes final when all appeals are disposed of, the period in which an appeal may be taken has expired or the period in which a request for further review may be made has expired.
(6)
Final resolution
occurs when the designated or related summons or any order enforcing any part of the designated or related summons is fully complied with and all appeals or requests for further review are disposed of, the period in which an appeal may be taken has expired or the period in which a request for further review may be made has expired.
(d)
Special rules
—(1)
Number of summonses that may be issued
—(i)
Designated summons.
Only one designated summons may be issued in connection with the examination of a specific taxable year or other period of a corporation. A designated summons may cover more than one year or other period of a corporation. The designated summons may require production of information that was previously sought in a summons (other than a designated summons) issued in the course of the examination of that particular corporation if that information was not previously produced.
(ii)
Related summonses.
There is no restriction on the number of related summonses that may be issued in connection with the examination of a corporation. As provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, however, a related summons must be issued within the 30-day period that begins on the date on which the designated summons to which it relates is issued and must relate to the same return as the designated summons. A related summons may request the same information as the designated summons.
(2)
Time within which court proceedings must be brought.
In order for the period of limitations on assessment to be suspended under section 6503(j), a court proceeding to enforce or to quash a designated or related summons must be instituted within the period of limitations on assessment provided in section 6501 that is otherwise applicable to the tax return.
(3)
Computation of suspension period if multiple court proceedings are instituted.
If multiple court proceedings are instituted to enforce or to quash a designated or one or more related summonses concerning the same tax return, the period of limitations on assessment is suspended beginning on the date the first court proceeding is brought. The suspension shall end on the date that is the latest date on which the judicial enforcement period, plus the 120 day or 60 day period (depending on whether the court requires any compliance) as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, expires with respect to each summons.
(4)
Effect on other suspension periods
—(i)
In general.
Suspensions of the period of limitations under section 6501 provided for under subsections 7609(e)(1) and (e)(2) do not apply to any summons that is issued pursuant to section 6503(j). The suspension under section 6503(j) of the running of the period of limitations on assessment under section 6501 is independent of, and may run concurrent with, any other suspension of the period of limitations on assessment that applies to the tax return to which the designated or related summons relates.
(ii)
Examples.
The rules of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
The period of limitations on assessment against Corporation P, a calendar year taxpayer, for its 2007 return is scheduled to end on March 17, 2011. (Ordinarily, Corporation P's returns are filed on March 15th of the following year, but March 15, 2008, was a Saturday, and Corporation P timely filed its return on the subsequent Monday, March 17, 2008, making March 17, 2011 the last day of the period of limitations on assessment for Corporation P's 2007 tax year.) On January 4, 2011, a designated summons is issued to Corporation P concerning its 2007 return. On March 3, 2011 (14 days before the period of limitations on assessment would
otherwise expire with respect to Corporation P's 2007 return), a court proceeding is brought to enforce the designated summons issued to Corporation P. On June 6, 2011, the court orders Corporation P to comply with the designated summons. Corporation P does not appeal the court's order. On September 6, 2011, agents for Corporation P deliver material that they state are the records requested by the designated summons. On October 13, 2011, a final resolution to Corporation P's response to the designated summons occurs when it is determined that Corporation P has fully complied with the court's order. The suspension period applicable with respect to the designated summons issued to Corporation P consists of the judicial enforcement period (March 3, 2011, through October 13, 2011) and an additional 120-day period under section 6503(j)(1)(B), because the court required Corporation P to comply with the designated summons. Thus, the suspension period applicable with respect to the designated summons issued to Corporation P begins on March 3, 2011, and ends on February 10, 2012. Under the facts of this
Example 1
, the period of limitations on assessment against Corporation P further extends to February 24, 2012, to account for the additional 14 days that remained on the period of limitations on assessment under section 6501 when the suspension period under section 6503(j) began.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts set forth in
Example 1
, except that in addition to the issuance of the designated summons and related enforcement proceedings, on April 5, 2011, a summons concerning Corporation P's 2007 return is issued and served on individual A, a third party. This summons is not a related summons because it was not issued during the 30-day period that began on the date the designated summons was issued. The third-party summons served on individual A is subject to the notice requirements of section 7609(a). Final resolution of individual A's response to this summons does not occur until February 15, 2012. Because there is no final resolution of individual A's response to this summons by October 5, 2011, which is six months from the date of service of the summons, the period of limitations on assessment against Corporation P is suspended under section 7609(e)(2) to the date on which there is a final resolution to that response for the purposes of section 7609(e)(2). Moreover, because final resolution to the summons served on individual A does not occur until after February 10, 2012, the end of the suspension period for the designated summons, the period of limitations on assessment against Corporation P expires 14 days after the date that the final resolution as provided for in section 7609(e)(2) occurs with respect to the summons served on individual A.
(5)
Computation of 60-day period when last day of assessment period falls on a weekend or holiday.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, in determining whether a designated summons has been issued at least 60 days before the date on which the period of limitations on assessment prescribed in section 6501 expires, the provisions of section 7503 apply when the last day of the assessment period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(e)
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable on July 31, 2009.
[T.D. 9455, 74 FR 38097, July 31, 2009]

# Limitations on Credit or Refund
§ 301.6511(a)-1
Period of limitation on filing claim.
(a) In the case of any tax (other than a tax payable by stamp):
(1) If a return is filed, a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment must be filed by the taxpayer within 3 years from the time the return was filed or within 2 years from the time the tax was paid, whichever of such periods expires the later.
(2) If no return is filed, the claim for credit or refund of an overpayment must be filed by the taxpayer within 2 years from the time the tax was paid.
(b) In the case of any tax payable by means of a stamp, a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment of such tax must be filed by the taxpayer within 3 years from the time the tax was paid. For provisions relating to redemption of unsued stamps, see section 6805.
(c) For limitations on allowance of credit or refund, special rules, and exceptions, see subsections (b) through (e) of section 6511. For limitations in the case of a petition to the Tax Court, see section 6512. For rules as to time return is deemed filed and tax considered paid, see section 6513.
§ 301.6511(b)-1
Limitations on allowance of credits and refunds.
(a)
Effect of filing claim.
Unless a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment is filed within the period of limitation prescribed in section 6511(a), no credit or refund shall be allowed or made after the expiration of such period.
(b)
Limit on amount to be credited or refunded.
(1) In the case of any tax (other than a tax payable by stamp):
(i) If a return was filed, and a claim is filed within 3 years from the time the return was filed, the amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period, immediately preceding the filing of the claim, equal to 3 years plus the period of any extension of time for filing the return.
(ii) If a return was filed, and a claim is filed after the 3-year period described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph but within 2 years from the time the tax was paid, the amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the claim.
(iii) If no return was filed, but a claim is filed, the amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the claim.
(iv) If no claim is filed, the amount of the credit or refund allowed or made by the district director or the director of the regional service center shall not exceed the amount that would have been allowable under the preceding subdivisions of this subparagraph if a claim had been filed on the date the credit or refund is allowed.
(2) In the case of a tax payable by stamp:
(i) If a claim is filed, the amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the 3 years immediately preceding the filing of the claim.
(ii) If no claim is filed, the amount of the credit or refund allowed or made by the district director or the director of the regional service center shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the 3 years immediately preceding the allowance of the credit or refund.
For provisions relating to redemption of unused stamps, see section 6805.
§ 301.6511(c)-1
Special rules applicable in case of extension of time by agreement.
(a)
Scope.
If, within the period prescribed in section 6511(a) for the filing of a claim for credit or refund, an agreement extending the period for assessment of a tax has been made in accordance with the provisions of section 6501(c)(4), the special rules provided in this section become applicable. This section shall not apply to any claim filed, or credit or refund allowed if no claim is filed, either (1) prior to the execution of an agreement extending the period in which assessment may be made, or (2) more than 6 months after the expiration of the period within which an assessment may be made pursuant to the agreement or any extension thereof.
(b)
Period in which claim may be filed.
Claim for credit or refund of an overpayment may be filed, or credit or refund may be allowed if no claim is filed, at any time within which an assessment may be made pursuant to an agreement, or any extension thereof, under section 6501(c)(4), and for 6 months thereafter.
(c)
Limit on amount to be credited or refunded.
(1) If a claim is filed within the time prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of the credit or refund allowed or made shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid after the execution of the agreement and before the filing of the claim, plus the amount that could have been properly credited or refunded under the provisions of section 6511(b)(2) if a claim had been filed on the date of the execution of the agreement.
(2) If no claim is filed, the amount of credit or refund allowed or made within the time prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid after the execution of the agreement and before the making of the credit or refund, plus the amount that could have been properly credited or refunded under the provisions of section 6511(b)(2) if a claim had been filed on the date of the execution of the agreement.
(d)
Effective date of agreement.
The agreement referred to in this section shall become effective when signed by the taxpayer and the district director or an assistant regional commissioner.
§ 301.6511(d)-1
Overpayment of income tax on account of bad debts, worthless securities, etc.
(a)(1) If the claim for credit or refund relates to an overpayment of income tax on account of—
(i) The deductibility by the taxpayer, under section 166 or section 832(c), of a debt as a debt which became worthless, or, under section 165(g), of a loss from the worthlessness of a security, or
(ii) The effect that the deductibility of a debt or loss described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph has on the application to the taxpayer of a carryover, then in lieu of the 3-year period from the time the return was filed in which claim may be filed or credit or refund allowed, as prescribed in section 6511 (a) or (b), the period shall be 7 years from the date prescribed by law for filing the return (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return) for the taxable year for which the claim is made or the credit or refund allowed or made.
(2) If the claim for credit or refund relates to an overpayment on account of the effect that the deductibility of a debt or loss, described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), has on the application to the taxpayer of a net operating loss carryback provided in section 172(b), the period in which claim for credit or refund may be filed shall be whichever of the following two periods expires later:
(i) Seven years from the last date prescribed for filing the return (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return) for the taxable year of the net operating loss which results in such carryback, or
(ii) The period which ends with the expiration of the period prescribed in section 6511(c) within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed with respect to the taxable year of the net operating loss which resulted in the carryback.
(3) In the case of a claim for credit or refund involving items described in this section, the amount of the credit or refund may exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), whichever is applicable, to the extent of the amount of the overpayment attributable to the deductibility of items described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a). If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on the deductibility of items described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, the credit or refund cannot exceed the sum of the following:
(i) The amount of the overpayment which is attributable to the deductibility of items described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), and
(ii) The balance of such overpayment up to a limit of the portion, if any, of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), or within the period provided in any other applicable provision of law.
(4) If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on the deductibility of items described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, and if the claim with respect to any items is barred by the expiration of any applicable period of limitation, the portion of the overpayment attributable to the items not so barred shall be determined by treating the allowance of such items as the first adjustment to be made in computing such overpayment.
(b) If a claim for credit or refund is not filed within the applicable period described in paragraph (a) of this section, then credit or refund may be allowed or made only if claim therefor is filed or if such credit or refund is allowed within any period prescribed in section 6511 (a), (b), or (c), whichever is applicable, subject to the provisions thereof limiting the amount of credit or refund in the case of a claim filed, or, if no claim was filed, in the case of credit or refund allowed within such applicable period as prescribed in section 6511 (b) or (c).
(c) The provisions of this section and section 6511(d)(1) do not apply to an overpayment resulting from the deductibility of a debt that became partially worthless during the taxable year, but only to an overpayment resulting from the deductibility of a debt which became entirely worthless during such year.
(d) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section with regard to an overpayment caused by the deductibility of a bad debt under section 166 or section
832(c), or of a loss from the worthlessness of a security under section 165(g), are likewise applicable to an overpayment caused by the effect that the deductibility of such bad debt or loss has on the application to the taxpayer of a carryover or of a carryback.
§ 301.6511(d)-2
Overpayment of income tax on account of net operating loss or capital loss carrybacks.
(a)
Special period of limitation.
(1) If the claim for credit or refund relates to an overpayment of income tax attributable to a net operating loss carryback (provided in section 172(b)), or a capital loss carryback (provided in section 1212(a)), then in lieu of the 3-year period from the time the return was filed in which the claim may be filed or credit or refund allowed, as prescribed in section 6511 (a) or (b), the period shall be whichever of the following two periods expires later:
(i) The period which ends with the expiration of the 15th day of the 40th month (or 39th month, in the case of a corporation) following the end of the taxable year of the net operating loss or net capital loss which resulted in the carryback; or
(ii) The period which ends with the expiration of the period prescribed in section 6511(c) within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed with respect to the taxable year of the net operating loss or net capital loss which resulted in the carryback except that—
(
a
) With respect to an overpayment attributable to a net operating loss carryback to any year on account of a certification issued to the taxpayer under section 317 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, the period shall not expire before the expiration of the sixth month following the month in which such certification is issued to the taxpayer, and
(
b
) With respect to an overpayment attributable to the creation of, or an increase in, a net operating loss as a result of the elimination of excessive profits by a renegotiation (as defined in section 1481(a)(1)(A)), the period shall not expire before September 1, 1959, or the expiration of the 12th month following the month in which the agreement or order for the elimination of such excessive profits becomes final, whichever is the later.
(2) In the case of a claim for credit or refund involving a net operating loss or capital loss carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), the amount of the credit or refund may exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), whichever is applicable, to the extent of the amount of the overpayment attributable to the carryback. If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on a net operating loss or capital loss carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, the credit or refund cannot exceed the sum of the following:
(i) The amount of the overpayment which is attributable to the net operating loss or capital loss carryback, and
(ii) The balance of such overpayment up to a limit of the portion, if any, of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), or within the period provided in any other applicable provision of law.
(3) If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on a net operating loss or capital loss carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, and if the claim with respect to any items is barred by the expiration of any applicable period of limitation, the portion of the overpayment attributable to the items not so barred shall be determined by treating the allowance of such items as the first adjustment to be made in computing such overpayment. If a claim for credit or refund is not filed, and if credit or refund is not allowed, within the period prescribed in this paragraph, then credit or refund may be allowed or made only if claim therefor is filed, or if such credit or refund is allowed, within the period prescribed in section 6511 (a), (b), or (c), whichever is applicable, subject to the provisions thereof limiting the amount of credit or refund in the case of a claim filed, or if no claim was filed, in case of credit or refund allowed, within such applicable period. For the limitations on the allowance of interest for an overpayment where credit or refund
is subject to the provisions of this section, see section 6611(f).
(b)(1)
Barred overpayments.
If the allowance of a credit or refund of an overpayment of tax attributable to a net operating loss carryback or capital loss carryback is otherwise prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law (other than section 7122, relating to compromises), such credit or refund may be allowed or made under the provisions of section 6511(d)(2)(B) if a claim therefor is filed within the period provided by section 6511(d)(2)(A) and paragraph (a) of this section for filing a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment attributable to a carryback. Similarly, if the allowance of an application, credit, or refund of a decrease in the tax determined under section 6411(b) is otherwise prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law (other than section 7122), such application, credit, or refund may be allowed or made if an application for a tentative carryback adjustment is filed within the period provided in section 6411(a). Thus, for example, even though the tax liability (not including the net operating loss deduction or capital loss carryback (or the effect of such deduction or carryback)) for a given taxable year has previously been litigated before the Tax Court, credit or refund of an overpayment may be allowed or made despite the provisions of section 6512(a), if claim for such credit or refund is filed within the period provided in section 6511(d)(2)(A) and paragraph (a) of this section. In the case of a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment attributable to a carryback, or in the case of an application for a tentative carryback adjustment, the determination of any court, including the Tax Court, in any proceeding in which the decision of the court has become final, shall be conclusive except with respect to the net operating loss deduction, and the effect of such deduction, or with respect to the determination of a short-term capital loss, and the effect of such short-term capital loss, to the extent that such deduction or short-term capital loss is affected by a carryback which was not in issue in such proceeding.
(2) For purposes of the special period of limitation for filing a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment of tax with respect to a computation year (as defined in section 1302(c)(1)) by an individual who has chosen to compute his tax under sections 1301 through 1305 (relating to income averaging), such claim is determined to relate to an overpayment attributable to a net operating loss carryback when such carryback relates to any base period year (as defined in section 1302(c)(3)). Thus, if (i) an individual has a net operating loss for a taxable year subsequent to a taxable year for which he had chosen the benefits of income averaging, and (ii) such net operating loss carryback is wholly utilized in any one or more of his base period years (which would result in an increased amount of averageable income for such computation year), the special period of limitation with respect to such individual's computation year applies and a timely claim for credit or refund with respect to the computation year may be filed.
[T.D. 7196, 37 FR 13691, July 13, 1972, and T.D. 7301, 39 FR 976, Jan. 4, 1974]
§ 301.6511(d)-3
Special rules applicable to credit against income tax for foreign taxes.
(a)
Period in which claim may be filed.
In the case of an overpayment of income tax resulting from a credit, allowed under the provisions of section 901 or under the provisions of any treaty to which the United States is a party, for taxes paid or accrued to a foreign country or possession of the United States, a claim for credit or refund must be filed by the taxpayer within 10 years from the last date prescribed for filing the return (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return) for the taxable year with respect to which the claim is made. Such 10-year period shall be applied in lieu of the 3-year period prescribed in section 6511(a).
(b)
Limit on amount to be credited or refunded.
In the case of a claim described in paragraph (a) of this section, the amount of the credit or refund allowed or made may exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period prescribed in section 6511 (b) or (c), whichever is applicable, to the extent of the amount of the overpayment attributable to the allowance of a credit against income
tax referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 301.6511(d)-4
Overpayment of income tax on account of investment credit carryback.
(a)
Special period of limitation.
(1) If the claim for credit or refund relates to an overpayment of income tax attributable to an investment credit carryback, provided in section 46(b), then in lieu of the 3-year period from the time the return was filed in which the claim may be filed or credit or refund allowed, as prescribed in section 6511 (a) or (b), the period shall be whichever of the following 2 periods expires later:
(i) The period which ends with the expiration of the 15th day of the 40th month (or 39th month, in the case of a corporation) following the end of the taxable year of the unused investment credit which resulted in the carryback (or, with respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss carryback or a capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year, the period which ends with the expiration of the 15th day of the 40th month (or 39th month, in the case of a corporation) following the end of such subsequent taxable year); or
(ii) The period which ends with the expiration of the period prescribed in section 6511(c) within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed with respect to the taxable year of the unused investment credit which resulted in the carryback.
(2) In the case of a claim for credit or refund involving an investment credit carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the amount of the credit or refund may exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), whichever is applicable, to the extent of the amount of the overpayment attributable to the carryback. If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on an investment credit carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, the credit or refund cannot exceed the sum of the following:
(i) The amount of the overpayment which is attributable to the investment credit carryback, and
(ii) The balance of such overpayment up to a limit of the portion, if any, of the tax paid within the period provided in section 6511 (b)(2) or (c), or within the period provided in any other applicable provision of law.
(3) If the claim involves an overpayment based not only on an investment credit carryback described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), but based also on other items, and if the claim with respect to any items is barred by the expiration of any applicable period of limitation, the portion of the overpayment attributable to the items not so barred shall be determined by treating the allowance of such items as the first adjustment to be made in computing such overpayment. If a claim for credit or refund is not filed, and if credit or refund is not allowed, within the period prescribed in this paragraph, then credit or refund may be allowed or made only if claim therefor is filed, or if such credit or refund is allowed, within the period prescribed in section 6511 (a), (b), or (c), whichever is applicable, subject to the provisions thereof limiting the amount of credit or refund in the case of a claim filed, or if no claim was filed, in case of credit or refund allowed, within such applicable period. For the limitations on the allowance of interest for an overpayment where credit or refund is subject to the provisions of this section, see section 6611(f).
(b)
Barred overpayments.
If the allowance of a credit or refund of an overpayment of tax attributable to an investment credit carryback is otherwise prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law (other than section 7122, relating to compromises), such credit or refund may be allowed or made under the provisions of section 6511(d)(4)(B) if a claim therefor is filed within the period provided by section 6511(d)(4)(A) and paragraph (a) of this section for filing a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment attributable to a carryback. In the case of a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment attributable to a carryback, the determination of any court, including the Tax Court, in any proceeding in which
the decision of the court has become final, shall not be conclusive with respect to the investment credit, and the effect of such credit, to the extent that such credit is affected by a carryback which was not in issue in such proceeding.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7301, 39 FR 977, Jan. 4, 1974]
§ 301.6511(e)-1
Special rules applicable to manufactured sugar.
(a)
Use as livestock feed and for distillation of alcohol.
No payment shall be allowed or made under section 6418 (a) unless within 2 years after the date the right to such payment has accrued a claim therefor is filed by the person entitled thereto. Such right accrues as of the date the manufactured sugar, or article manufactured therefrom, is used for a purpose for which payment is allowable under section 6418(a).
(b)
Exportation.
No payment shall be allowed or made under section 6418 (b) unless within 2 years after the date the right to such payment has accrued a claim therefor is filed by the person entitled thereto. Such right accrues as of the date the articles are exported.
§ 301.6511(f)-1
Special rules for chapter 42 taxes.
(a)
In general.
Claims for credit or refund of an overpayment of any tax imposed by chapter 42 shall be filed by the taxpayer within 3 years from the time a return was filed by the private foundation or trust (as the case may be) with respect to such tax, or within 2 years from the time the tax was paid, whichever of such periods expire the later.
(b)
Examples.
This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
In 1972, D, an individual taxpayer who was a disqualified person under the provisions of section 4946(a)(1), participated in an act of self-dealing with a private foundation and incurred a tax under section 4941(a)(1). The private foundation files a Form 990-PF on May 15, 1973, and discloses thereon that it has engaged in an act of self-dealing with D. D files a Form 4720 on July 2, 1973, and pays the amount of tax imposed by section 4941(a) with respect to such act of self-dealing. For purposes of this section, the return was filed on May 15, 1973, and any claim for credit or refund by D must be filed by May 17, 1976 (May 15, 1976, was a Saturday).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example 1 except that D filed a Form 4720 on July 1, 1974, and pays the tax on that date. D must then file any claim for credit or refund by July 1, 1976.
[T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6512-1
Limitations in case of petition to Tax Court.
(a)
Effect of petition to Tax Court
—(1)
General rule.
If a person having a right to file a petition with the Tax Court with respect to a deficiency in income, estate, gift, or excise tax imposed by subtitle A or B, or chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 of the Code has filed such petition within the time prescribed in section 6213(a), no credit or refund of income tax for the same taxable year, of gift tax for the same calendar year or calendar quarter, of estate tax in respect of the taxable estate of the same decedent, or of tax imposed by chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 with respect to any act (or failure to act) to which such petition relates, in respect of which a district director or director of a service center (or a regional director of appeals) has determined the deficiency, shall be allowed or made, and no suit in any court for the recovery of any part of such tax shall be instituted by the taxpayer, except as to items set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
The exceptions to the rule stated in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), are as follows:
(i) An overpayment determined by a decision of the Tax Court which has become final;
(ii) Any amount collected in excess of an amount computed in accordance with the decision of the Tax Court which has become final; and
(iii) Any amount collected after the expiration of the period of limitation upon levying or beginning a proceeding in court for collection.
(b)
Overpayment determined by Tax Court.
If the Tax Court finds that there is no deficiency and further finds that the taxpayer has made an overpayment of income tax for the same taxable year, of gift tax for the same calendar year or calendar quarter, of estate tax in respect of the taxable estate of the same decedent, or of tax imposed by chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 with respect to
any act (or failure to act) to which such petition relates, in respect of which a district director, or director of a service center (or a regional director of appeals) has determined the deficiency, or finds that there is a deficiency but that the taxpayer has made an overpayment of such tax, the overpayment determined by the Tax Court shall be credited or refunded to the taxpayer when the decision of the Tax Court has become final. (See section 7481, relating to the date when a Tax Court decision becomes final.) No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made of any portion of the tax unless the Tax Court determines as part of its decision that such portion was paid—
(1) After the mailing of the notice of deficiency, or
(2) Within the period which would be applicable under section 6511(b)(2), (c), (d) or (g) (see §§ 301.6511(b)-1. 301.6511(c)-1, 301.6511(d)-1, 301.6511(d)-2, and 301.6511(d)-3), if on the date of the mailing of the notice of deficiency a claim had been filed (whether or not filed) stating the grounds upon which the Tax Court finds that there is an overpayment.
(c)
Jeopardy assessments.
In the case of a jeopardy assessment made under section 6861(a), if the amount which should have been assessed as determined by a decision of the Tax Court which has become final is less than the amount already collected, the excess payment shall be credited or refunded subject to a determination being made by the Tax Court with respect to the time of payment as stated in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Disallowance of deficiency by reviewing court.
If the amount of the deficiency determined by the Tax Court (in a case where collection has not been stayed by the filing of a bond) is disallowed in whole or in part by the reviewing court, then the overpayment resulting from such disallowance shall be credited or refunded without the making of claim therefor, subject to a determination being made by the Tax Court with respect to the time of payment as stated in paragraph (b) of this section. (See section 7481, relating to date Tax Court decision becomes final.)
(e)
Collection in excess of amount determined by Tax Court.
Where the amount collected is in excess of the amount computed in accordance with the decision of the Tax Court which has become final, the excess payment shall be credited or refunded within the period of limitation provided in section 6511.
(f)
Collection after expiration of statutory period.
Where an amount is collected after the statutory period of limitation upon the beginning of levy or a proceeding in court for collection has expired (see section 6502, relating to collection after assessment), the taxpayer may file a claim for refund of the amount so collected within the period of limitation provided in section 6511. In any such case, the decision of the Tax Court as to whether the statutory period upon collection of the tax expired before notice of the deficiency was mailed shall, when the decision becomes final, be conclusive.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6513-1
Time return deemed filed and tax considered paid.
(a)
Early return or advance payment of tax.
For purposes of section 6511, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law or regulations for the filing thereof shall be considered as filed on such last day. For purposes of section 6511 (b)(2) and (c) and section 6512, payment of any portion of the tax made before the last day prescribed for payment shall be considered made on such last day. An extension of time for filing a return or for paying any tax, or an election to pay any tax in installments, shall not be given any effect in determining under this section the last day prescribed for filing a return or paying any tax.
(b)
Prepaid income tax.
For purposes of section 6511 (relating to limitations on credit or refund) or section 6512 (relating to limitations in case of petition to Tax Court)—
(1) Any tax actually deducted and withheld at the source during any calendar year under chapter 24 of the Code (relating to collection of income tax at source on wages) shall, in respect of the recipient of the income, be deemed to have been paid by him on the 15th day of the fourth month following the close of his taxable year with respect to which such tax is allowable as a
credit under section 31 (relating to tax withheld on wages),
(2) Any amount paid as estimated income tax for any taxable year shall be deemed to have been paid on the last day prescribed for filing the income tax return under section 6012 for such taxable year (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return), and
(3) Any tax withheld at the source on or after November 13, 1966, under chapter 3 of the Code (relating to tax withheld on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds) shall, in respect of the recipient of the income, be deemed to have been paid by such recipient on the last day prescribed for filing his income tax return under section 6012 for the taxable year (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return) with respect to which such tax is allowable as a credit under section 1462 (relating to withheld tax as credit to recipient of income).
Subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b), shall apply even though the recipient of the income has been granted under section 6012 and the regulations thereunder an exemption from the requirement of making an income tax return for the taxable year.
(c)
Return and payment of social security taxes and income tax withholding.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a return (or payment) on or after November 13, 1966, of tax imposed by chapter 3 of the Code (relating to withholding of tax on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds), or if a return (or payment) of tax imposed by chapter 21 of the Code (relating to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act) or by chapter 24 of the Code (relating to the collection of income tax at source on wages), for any period ending with or within a calendar year is filed or paid before April 15 of the succeeding calendar year, for purposes of section 6511 (relating to limitations on credit or refund) the return shall be considered filed, or the tax considered paid, on April 15 of such succeeding calendar year.
(d)
Overpayment of income tax credited to estimated tax.
If a taxpayer elects under the provisions of section 6402(b) to credit an overpayment of income tax for a taxable year against estimated tax for the succeeding taxable year, the amount so credited shall be considered a payment of income tax for such succeeding taxable year (whether or not claimed as a credit on the estimated tax return for such succeeding taxable year). If the treatment of such amount as a payment of income tax for the succeeding taxable year results in an overpayment for such succeeding taxable year, the period of limitations applicable to such overpayment is determined by reference to that taxable year. An election so to credit an overpayment of income tax precludes the allowance of a claim for credit or refund of such overpayment for the taxable year in which the overpayment arises.
§ 301.6514(a)-1
Credits or refunds after period of limitation.
(a) A refund of any portion of any internal revenue tax (or any interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty) shall be considered erroneous and a credit of any such portion shall be considered void:
(1) If made after the expiration of the period of limitation prescribed by section 6511 for filing claim therefor, unless prior to the expiration of such period claim was filed, or
(2) In the case of a timely claim, if the credit or refund was made after the expiration of the period of limitation prescribed by section 6532(a) for the filing of suit, unless prior to the expiration of such period suit was begun.
(b) For procedure by the United States to recover erroneous refunds, see sections 6532(b) and 7405.
§ 301.6514(b)-1
Credit against barred liability.
Any credit against a liability in respect of any taxable year shall be void if the collection of such liability would be barred by the applicable statute of limitations at the time such credit is made.

# Mitigation of Effect of Period of Limitations
§ 301.6521-1
Mitigation of effect of limitation in case of related employee social security tax and self-employment tax.
(a) Section 6521 may be applied in the correction of a certain type of error involving both the tax on self-employment income under section 1401 and the employee tax under section 3101 if the correction of the error as to one tax is, on the date the correction is authorized, prevented in whole or in part by the operation of any law or rule of law other than section 7122, relating to compromises. Examples of such law are sections 6212(c), 6401(a), 6501, 6511, 6512(a), 6514, 6532, 6901 (c), (d) and (e), 7121, and 7459(e).
(b) If the liability for either tax with respect to which the error was made has been compromised under section 7122, the provisions of section 6521 limiting the correction with respect to the other tax do not apply.
(c) Section 6521 is not applicable if, on the date of the authorization, correction of the effect of the error is permissible as to both taxes without recourse to such section.
(d) If, because an amount of wages, as defined in section 3121(a), is erroneously treated as self-employment income, as defined in section 1402(b), or an amount of self-employment income is erroneously treated as wages, it is necessary in correcting the error to assess the correct tax and give a credit or refund for the amount of the tax erroneously paid, and if either, but not both, of such adjustments is prevented by any law or rule of law (other than section 7122), the amount of the assessment, or the amount of the credit or refund, authorized shall reflect the adjustment which would be made in respect of the other tax (either the tax on self-employment income under section 1401 or the employee tax under section 3101) but for the operation of such law or rule of law. For example, assume that during 1955 A paid $10 as tax on an amount erroneously treated as “wages”, when such amount was actually self-employment income, and that credit or refund of the $10 is not barred. A should have paid a self-employment tax of $15 on the amount. If the assessment of the correct tax, that is, $15, is barred by the statute of limitations, no credit or refund of the $10 shall be made without offsetting against such $10 the $15, assessment of which is barred. Thus, no credit or refund in respect of the $10 can be made.
(e) As another example, assume that during 1955 a taxpayer reports wages of $4,200 and net earnings from self-employment of $900. By reason of the limitations of section 1402(b) he shows no self-employment income. Assume further that by reason of a final decision by the Tax Court of the United States, further adjustments to the taxpayer's income tax liability are barred. The question of the amount of his wages, as defined in section 3121, was not in issue in the Tax Court litigation, but it is subsequently determined (within the period of limitations applicable under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act) that $700 of the $4,200 reported as wages was not for employment as defined in section 3121(b). Therefore, the taxpayer is entitled to the allowance of a refund of the $14 tax paid on such remuneration under section 3101. The reduction of his wages from $4,200 to $3,500 would result in the determination of $700 self-employment income, the tax on which is $21 for the year. Under section 6521, the overpayment of $14 would be offset by the barred deficiency of $21, thus eliminating the refund otherwise allowable. If the facts were changed so that the taxpayer erroneously paid tax on self-employment income of $700, having been taxed on only $3,500 as wages, and within the period of limitations applicable under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, it is determined that his wages were $4,200, the tax of $14 under section 3101, otherwise collectible, would be eliminated by offsetting under section 6521 the barred overpayment of $21. The balance of the barred overpayment, $7, cannot be credited or refunded.
(f) Another illustration of the operation of section 6521 is the case of a taxpayer who, for 1955, is erroneously taxed on $2,500 as wages, the tax on which is $50, and who reports no self-employment income. After the period of limitations has run on the refund of the tax under the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act, it is determined that the amount treated as wages should have been reported as net earnings from self-employment. The taxpayer's self-employment income would then be $2,500 and the tax thereon would be $75. Assume that the period of limitations applicable to subtitle A of the Code has not expired, and that a notice of deficiency may properly be issued. Under section 6521, the amount of the deficiency of $75 must be reduced by the barred overpayment of $50.
§ 301.6521-2
Law applicable in determination of error.
The question of whether there was an erroneous treatment of self-employment income or of wages is determined under the provisions of law and regulations applicable with respect to the year or other taxable period as to which the error was made. The fact that the error was in pursuance of an interpretation, either judicial or administrative, accorded such provisions of law and regulations at the time the action involved was taken is not necessarily determinative of this question. For example, if a later judicial decision authoritatively alters such interpretation so that such action is contrary to the applicable provisions of the law and regulations as later interpreted, the error comes within the scope of section 6521.

# Periods of Limitation in Judicial Proceedings
§ 301.6532-1
Periods of limitation on suits by taxpayers.
(a) No suit or proceeding under section 7422(a) for the recovery of any internal revenue tax, penalty, or other sum shall be begun until whichever of the following first occurs:
(1) The expiration of 6 months from the date of the filing of the claim for credit or refund, or
(2) A decision is rendered on such claim prior to the expiration of 6 months after the filing thereof.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no suit or proceeding for the recovery of any internal revenue tax, penalty, or other sum may be brought after the expiration of 2 years from the date of mailing by registered mail prior to September 3, 1958, or by either registered or certified mail on or after September 3, 1958, by a district director, a director of an internal revenue service center, or an assistant regional commissioner to a taxpayer of a notice of disallowance of the part of the claim to which the suit or proceeding relates.
(b) The 2-year period described in paragraph (a) of this section may be extended if an agreement to extend the running of the period of limitations is executed. The agreement must be signed by the taxpayer or by an attorney, agent, trustee, or other fiduciary on behalf of the taxpayer. If the agreement is signed by a person other than the taxpayer, it shall be accompanied by an authenticated copy of the power of attorney or other legal evidence of the authority of such person to act on behalf of the taxpayer. If the taxpayer is a corporation, the agreement should be signed with the corporate name followed by the signature of a duly authorized officer of the corporation. The agreement will not be effective until signed by a district director, a director of an internal revenue service center, or an assistant regional commissioner.
(c) The taxpayer may sign a waiver of the requirement that he be mailed a notice of disallowance. Such waiver is irrevocable and will commence the running of the 2-year period described in paragraph (a) of this section on the date the waiver is filed. The waiver shall set forth:
(1) The type of tax and the taxable period covered by the taxpayer's claim for refund;
(2) The amount of the claim;
(3) The amount of the claim disallowed;
(4) A statement that the taxpayer agrees the filing of the waiver will commence the running of the 2-year period provided for in section 6532(a)(1) as if a notice of disallowance had been sent the taxpayer by either registered or certified mail.
The filing of such a waiver prior to the expiration of 6 months from the date the claim was filed does not permit the filing of a suit for refund prior to the time specified in section 6532(a)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) Any consideration, reconsideration, or other action with respect to a claim after the mailing by registered mail prior to September 3, 1958, or by either registered or certified mail on or after September 3, 1958, of a notice of disallowance or after the execution of a waiver referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, shall not extend the period for bringing suit or other proceeding under section 7422(a).
§ 301.6532-2
Periods of limitation on suits by the United States.
The United States may not recover any erroneous refund by civil action under section 7405 unless such action is begun within 2 years after the making of such refund. However, if any part of the refund was induced by fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact, the action to recover the erroneous refund may be brought at any time within 5 years from the date the refund was made.
§ 301.6532-3
Periods of limitation on suits by persons other than taxpayers.
(a)
General rule.
No suit or proceeding, except as otherwise provided in section 6532(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section, under section 7426 and § 301.7426-1 relating to civil actions by persons other than taxpayers, shall be begun after the expiration of 9 months from the date of levy or agreement under section 6325(b)(3) giving rise to such action.
(b)
Period when claim is filed.
The 9-month period prescribed in section 6532(c)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section shall be extended to the shorter of,
(1) 12 months from the date of filing by a third party of a written request under § 301.6343-1(b)(2) for the return of property wrongfully levied upon, or
(2) 6 months from the date of mailing by registered or certified mail by the district director to the party claimant of a notice of disallowance of the part of the request to which the action relates. A request which, under § 301.6343-1(b)(3), is not considered adequate does not extend the 9-month period described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On June 1, 1970, a tax is assessed against A with respect to his delinquent tax liability. On July 19, 1970, a levy is wrongfully made upon certain tangible personal property of B's which is in A's possession at that time. On July 20, 1970, notice of seizure is given to A. Thus, under section 6502(b), July 20, 1970, is the date on which the levy is considered to be made. Unless a request for the return of property is sooner made to extend the 9-month period, no suit or proceeding under section 7426 may be begun by B after April 20, 1971, which is 9 months from the date of levy.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in the preceding example except that, on August 3, 1970, B properly files a request for the return of his property wrongfully levied upon. Assume further that the district director mails, on March 1, 1971, a notice of disallowance of B's request for the return of the property. No suit or proceeding under section 7426 may be begun by B after August 3, 1971, which is 12 months from the date of filing a request for the return of property wrongfully levied upon.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in the preceding example except that the notice of disallowance of B's request for the return of property wrongfully levied upon is mailed to B on November 12, 1970. Since the 6-month period from the mailing of the notice of disallowance expires before the 12-month period from the date of filing the request for the return of property which ends on August 3, 1971, no suit or proceeding under section 7426 may be begun by B after May 12, 1971, which is 6 months from the date of mailing the notice of disallowance.
[T.D. 7305, 39 FR 9950, Mar. 15, 1974]

# Interest

# Interest on Underpayments
§ 301.6601-1
Interest on underpayments.
(a)
General rule.
(1) Interest at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 shall be paid on any unpaid amount of tax from the last date prescribed for payment of the tax (determined without regard to any extension of time for payment) to the date on which payment is received.
(2) For provisions requiring the payment of interest during the period occurring before July 1, 1975, see section 6601(a) prior to its amendment by section 7 of the Act of Jan. 3, 1975 (Pub. L. 93-625, 88 Stat. 2115).
(b)
Satisfaction by credits made after December 31, 1957
—(1)
In general.
If any
portion of a tax is satisfied by the credit of an overpayment after December 31, 1957, interest shall not be imposed under section 6601 on such portion of the tax for any period during which interest on the overpayment would have been allowable if the overpayment had been refunded.
(2)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
An examination of A's income tax returns for the calendar years 1955 and 1956 discloses an underpayment of $800 for 1955 and an overpayment of $500 for 1956. Interest under section 6601(a) ordinarily accrues on the underpayment of $800 from April 15, 1956, to the date of payment. However, the 1956 overpayment of $500 is credited after December 31, 1957, against the underpayment in accordance with the provisions of section 6402(a) and § 301.6402-1. Under such circumstances interest on the $800 underpayment runs from April 15, 1956, the last date prescribed for payment of the 1955 tax, to April 15, 1957, the date the overpayment of $500 was made. Since interest would have been allowed on the overpayment, if refunded, from April 15, 1957, to a date not more than 30 days prior to the date of the refund check, no interest is imposed after April 15, 1957, on $500, the portion of the underpayment satisfied by credit. Interest continues to run, however, on $300 (the $800 underpayment for 1955 less the $500 overpayment for 1956) to the date of payment.

# Example 2.
An examination of A's income tax returns for the calendar years 1956 and 1957 discloses an overpayment, occurring on April 15, 1957, of $700 for 1956 and an underpayment of $400 for 1957. After April 15, 1958, the last date prescribed for payment of the 1957 tax, the district director credits $400 of the overpayment against the underpayment. In such a case, interest will accrue upon the overpayment of $700 from April 15, 1957, to April 15, 1958, the due date of the amount against which the credit is taken. Interest will also accrue under section 6611 upon $300 ($700 overpayment less $400 underpayment) from April 15, 1958, to a date not more than 30 days prior to the date of the refund check. Since a refund of the portion of the overpayment credited against the underpayment would have resulted in interest running upon such portion from April 15, 1958, to a date not more than 30 days prior to the date of the refund check, no interest is imposed upon the underpayment.
(c)
Last date prescribed for payment.
(1) In determining the last date prescribed for payment, any extension of time granted for payment of tax (including any postponement elected under section 6163(a)) shall be disregarded. The granting of an extension of time for the payment of tax does not relieve the taxpayer from liability for the payment of interest thereon during the period of the extension. Thus, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, interest at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 is payable on any unpaid portion of the tax for the period during which such portion remains unpaid by reason of an extension of time for the payment thereof.
(2)(i) If a tax or portion thereof is payable in installments in accordance with an election made under section 6152(a) or 6156(a), the last date prescribed for payment of any installment of such tax or portion thereof shall be determined under the provisions of section 6152(b) or 6156(b), as the case may be, and interest shall run on any unpaid installment from such last date to the date on which payment is received. However, in the event installment privileges are terminated for failure to pay an installment when due as provided by section 6152(d) and the time for the payment of any remaining installment is accelerated by the issuance of a notice and demand therefor, interest shall run on such unpaid installment from the date of the notice and demand to the date on which payment is received. But see section 6601(e)(4).
(ii) If the tax shown on a return is payable in installments, interest will run on any tax not shown on the return from the last date prescribed for payment of the first installment. If a deficiency is prorated to any unpaid installments, in accordance with section 6152(c), interest shall run on such prorated amounts from the date prescribed for the payment of the first installment to the date on which payment is received.
(3) If, by reason of jeopardy, a notice and demand for payment of any tax is issued before the last date otherwise prescribed for payment, such last date shall nevertheless be used for the purpose of the interest computation, and no interest shall be imposed for the period commencing with the date of the issuance of the notice and demand and ending on such last date. If the tax is
not paid on or before such last date, interest will automatically accrue from such last date to the date on which payment is received.
(4) In the case of taxes payable by stamp and in all other cases where the last date for payment of the tax is not otherwise prescribed, such last date for the purpose of the interest computation shall be deemed to be the date on which the liability for the tax arose. However, such last date shall in no event be later than the date of issuance of a notice and demand for the tax.
(d)
Suspension of interest; waiver of restrictions on assessment.
In the case of a deficiency determined by a district director (or an assistant regional commissioner, appellate) with respect to any income, estate, gift, or chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax, if the taxpayer files with such internal revenue officer an agreement waiving the restrictions on assessment of such deficiency, and if notice and demand for payment of such deficiency is not made within 30 days after the filing of such waiver, no interest shall be imposed on the deficiency for the period beginning immediately after such 30th day and ending on the date notice and demand is made. In the case of an agreement with respect to a portion of the deficiency, the rules as set forth in this paragraph are applicable only to that portion of the deficiency to which the agreement relates.
(e)
Income tax reduced by carryback.
(1) The carryback of a net operating loss, net capital loss, investment credit, or a work incentive program (WIN) credit shall not affect the computation of interest on any income tax for the period commencing with the last day prescribed for the payment of such tax and ending with the last day of the taxable year in which the loss or credit arises. For example, if the carryback of a net operating loss, a net capital loss, an investment credit, or a WIN credit to a prior taxable period eliminates or reduces a deficiency in income tax for that period, the full amount of the deficiency will nevertheless bear interest at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 from the last date prescribed for payment of such tax until the last day of the taxable year in which the loss or credit arose. Interest will continue to run beyond such last day on any portion of the deficiency which is not eliminated by the carryback. With respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback or a WIN credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss carryback or a capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year, such investment credit carryback or WIN credit carryback shall not affect the computation of interest on any income tax for the period commencing with the last day prescribed for the payment of such tax and ending with the last day of such subsequent taxable year.
(2) Where an extension of time for payment of income tax has been granted under section 6164 to a corporation expecting a net operating loss carryback or a net capital loss carryback, interest is payable at the annual rate established under section 6621 on the amount of such unpaid tax from the last date prescribed for payment thereof without regard to such extension.
(3) Where there has been an allowance of an overpayment attributable to a net operating loss carryback, a capital loss carryback, an investment credit carryback, or a WIN credit carryback and all or part of such allowance is later determined to be excessive, interest shall be computed on the excessive amount from the last day of the year in which the net operating loss, net capital loss, investment credit, or WIN credit arose until the date on which the repayment of such excessive amount is received. Where there has been an allowance of an overpayment with respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback or a WIN credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss carryback or a capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year and all or part of such allowance is later determined to be excessive, interest shall be computed on the excessive amount from the last day of such subsequent taxable year until the date on which the repayment of such excessive amount is received.
(f)
Applicable rules.
(1) Any interest prescribed by section 6601 shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as tax and shall be paid upon notice and demand by the district director or the director of the regional service center. Any reference in the Code (except in subchapter B, chapter 63, relating to deficiency procedures) to any tax imposed by the Code shall be deemed also to refer to the interest imposed by section 6601 on such tax. Interest on a tax may be assessed and collected at any time within the period of limitation on collection after assessment of the tax to which it relates. For rules relating to the period of limitation on collection after assessment, see section 6502.
(2) No interest under section 6601 shall be payable on any interest provided by such section. This paragraph (f)(2) shall not apply after December 31, 1982, with respect to interest accruing after such date, or accrued but unpaid on such date. See § 301.6622-1.
(3) Interest will not be imposed on any assessable penalty, addition to the tax (other than an addition to tax described in section 6601(e)(2)(B)), or additional amount if the amount is paid within 21 calendar days (10 business days if the amount assessed and shown on the notice and demand equals or exceeds $100,000) from the date of the notice and demand. If interest is imposed, it will be imposed only for the period from the date of the notice and demand to the date on which payment is received. This paragraph (f)(3) is applicable with respect to any notice and demand made after December 31, 1996.
(4) If notice and demand is made after December 31, 1996, for any amount and the amount is paid within 21 calendar days (10 business days if the amount assessed and shown on the notice and demand equals or exceeds $100,000) from the date of the notice and demand, interest will not be imposed for the period after the date of the notice and demand.
(5) For purposes of paragraphs (f)(3) and (4) of this section—
(i) The term
business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday in the District of Columbia, or a statewide legal holiday in the state where the taxpayer resides or where the taxpayer's principal place of business is located. With respect to the tenth business day (after taking into account the first sentence of this paragraph (f)(5)(i)), see section 7503 relating to time for performance of acts where the last day falls on a statewide legal holiday in the state where the act is required to be performed.
(ii) The term
calendar day
means any day. With respect to the twenty-first calendar day, see section 7503 relating to time for performance of acts where the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(6) No interest shall be imposed for failure to pay estimated tax as required by section 59 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 or section 6153 or 6154 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7238, 37 FR 28742, Dec. 29, 1972; T.D. 7301, 39 FR 978, Jan. 4, 1974; T.D. 7384, 40 FR 49324, Oct. 22, 1975; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982; T.D. 7907, 48 FR 38230, Aug. 23, 1983; T.D. 8725, 62 FR 39117, July 22, 1997]
§ 301.6602-1
Interest on erroneous refund recoverable by suit.
Any portion of an internal revenue tax (or any interest, assessable penalty, additional amount, or addition to tax) which has been erroneously refunded, and which is recoverable by a civil action pursuant to section 7405, shall bear interest at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 from the date of the payment of the refund.
[T.D. 7384, 40 FR 49324, Oct. 22, 1975]

# Interest on Overpayments
§ 301.6611-1
Interest on overpayments.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided, interest shall be allowed on any overpayment of any tax at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 from the date of overpayment of the tax.
(b)
Date of overpayment.
Except as provided in section 6401(a), relating to assessment and collection after the expiration of the applicable period of limitation, there can be no overpayment of tax until the entire tax liability has been satisfied. Therefore, the dates of overpayment of any tax are the date of payment of the first amount which
(when added to previous payments) is in excess of the tax liability (including any interest, addition to the tax, or additional amount) and the dates of payment of all amounts subsequently paid with respect to such tax liability. For rules relating to the determination of the date of payment in the case of an advance payment of tax, a payment of estimated tax, and a credit for income tax withholding, see paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Examples.
The application of paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation X files an income tax return on March 15, 1955, for the calendar year 1954 disclosing a tax liability of $1,000 and elects to pay the tax in installments. Subsequent to payment of the final installment, the correct tax liability is determined to be $900.
Tax liability
Assessed
$1,000
Correct liability
900
Overassessment
100
Record of payments
Mar. 15, 1955
$500
June 15, 1955
500
Since the correct liability in this case is $900, the payment of $500 made on March 15, 1955, and $400 of the payment made on June 15, 1955, are applied in satisfaction of the tax liability. The balance of the payment made on June 15, 1955 ($100) constitutes the amount of the overpayment, and the date on which such payment was made would be the date of the overpayment from which interest would be computed.

# Example 2.
Corporation Y files an income tax return for the calendar year 1954 on March 15, 1955, disclosing a tax liability of $50,000, and elects to pay the tax in installments. On October 15, 1956, a deficiency in the amount of $10,000 is assessed and is paid in equal amounts on November 15 and November 26, 1956. On April 15, 1957, it is determined that the correct tax liability of the taxpayer for 1954 is only $35,000.
Tax liability
Original assessment
$50,000
Deficiency assessment
10,000
Total assessed
60,000
Correct liability
35,000
Overassessment
25,000
Record of payments
Mar. 15, 1955
$25,000
June 15, 1955
25,000
Nov. 15, 1956
5,000
Nov. 26, 1956
5,000
Since the correct liability in this case is $35,000, the entire payment of $25,000 made on March 15, 1955, and $10,000 of the payment made on June 15, 1955, are applied in satisfaction of the tax liability. The balance of the payment made on June 15, 1955 ($15,000), plus the amounts paid on November 15 ($5,000), and November 26, 1956 ($5,000), constitute the amount of the overpayment. The dates of the overpayments from which interest would be computed are as follows:
Date
Amount of overpayment
June 15, 1955
$15,000
Nov. 15, 1956
5,000
Nov. 26, 1956
5,000
The amount of any interest paid with respect to the deficiency of $10,000 is also an overpayment.
(d)
Advance payment of tax, payment of estimated tax, and credit for income tax withholding.
In the case of an advance payment of tax, a payment of estimated income tax, or a credit for income tax withholding, the provisions of section 6513 (except the provisions of subsection (c) thereof), applicable in determining the date of payment of tax for purposes of the period of limitations on credit or refund, shall apply in determining the date of overpayment for purposes of computing interest thereon.
(e)
Refund of income tax caused by carryback.
If any overpayment of tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code results from the carryback of a net operating loss, a net capital loss, an investment credit, or a work incentive (WIN) credit, such overpayment, for purposes of this section, shall be deemed not to have been made prior to the end of the taxable year in which the loss or credit arises, or, with respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback or a WIN credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss carryback or a capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year, such overpayment shall be deemed not to have been made prior to the close of such subsequent taxable year.
(f)
Refund of income tax caused by carryback of foreign taxes.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, any overpayment of tax resulting from a
carryback of tax paid or accrued to foreign countries or possessions of the United States shall be deemed not to have been paid or accrued before the close of the taxable year under subtitle F of the Code in which such taxes were in fact paid or accrued.
(g)
Period for which interest allowable in case of refunds.
If an overpayment of tax is refunded, interest shall be allowed from the date of the overpayment to a date determined by the district director or the director of the regional service center, which shall be not more than 30 days prior to the date of the refund check. The acceptance of a refund check shall not deprive the taxpayer of the right to make a claim for any additional overpayment and interest thereon, provided the claim is made within the applicable period of limitation. However, if a taxpayer does not accept a refund check, no additional interest on the amount of the overpayment included in such check shall be allowed.
(h)
Period for which interest allowable in case of credits
—(1)
General rule.
If an overpayment of tax is credited, interest shall be allowed from the date of overpayment to the due date (as determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (h)) of the amount against which such overpayment is credited.
(2)
Determination of due date
—(i)
In general.
The term “due date”, as used in this section, means the last day fixed by law or regulations for the payment of the tax (determined without regard to any extension of time), and not the date on which the district director or the director of the regional service center makes demand for the payment of the tax. Therefore, the due date of a tax (other than an additional assessment subject to the special rule provided by subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph) is the date fixed for the payment of the tax or the several installments thereof.
(ii)
Tax payable in installments—(a) In general.
In the case of a credit against a tax, where the taxpayer had properly elected to pay the tax in installments, the due date is the date prescribed for the payment of the installment against which the credit is applied.
(
b
)
Delinquent installment.
If the taxpayer is delinquent in payment of an installment of tax and a notice and demand has been issued for the payment of the delinquent installment and the remaining installments, the due date of each remaining installment shall then be the date of such notice and demand.
(iii)
Tax or installment not yet due.
If a taxpayer agrees to the crediting of an overpayment against tax or an installment of tax and the schedule of allowance is signed prior to the date on which such tax or installment would otherwise become due, then the due date of such tax or installment shall be the date on which such schedule is signed.
(iv)
Additional assessment satisfied by credit before January 1, 1958.
In the case of a credit made before January 1, 1958, against an additional assessment, the due date of the tax satisfied by the credit is the date the additional assessment was made. For purposes of this subdivision, the term “additional assessment” means a further assessment of a tax of the same character previously paid in part, and includes the assessment of a deficiency as defined in section 6211.
(v)
Interest.
In the case of a credit against interest that accrues for any period ending prior to January 1, 1983, the due date is the earlier of the date of assessment of such interest or December 31, 1982. In the case of a credit against interest that accrues for any period beginning on or after December 31, 1982, such interest is due as it economically accrues on a daily basis, rather than when it is assessed.
(vi)
Additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty.
In the case of a credit against an additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty, the due date is the earlier of the date of assessment or the date from which such amount would bear interest if not satisfied by payment or credit.
(vii)
Estimated income tax for succeeding year.
If the taxpayer elects to have all or part of the overpayment shown by his return applied to his estimated tax for his succeeding taxable year, no interest shall be allowed on such portion of the overpayment credited and such amount shall be applied as a payment on account of the estimated tax for such year or the installments thereof.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Refund of overpayment.
No interest shall be allowed on any overpayment of tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code if such overpayment is refunded—
(1) In the case of a return filed on or before the last date prescribed for filing the return of such tax (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return), within 45 days after such last date, or
(2) After December 17, 1966, in the case of a return filed after the last day prescribed for filing the return, within 45 days after the date on which the return is filed.
However, in the case of any overpayment of tax by an individual (other than an estate or trust and other than a nonresident alien individual) for a taxable year beginning in 1974, “60 days” shall be substituted for “45 days” each place it appears in this paragraph.
(k)
Effective date.
Paragraphs (h)(2)(v) and (h)(2)(vi) of this section are effective for credits made on or after August 25, 1992.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7301, 39 FR 979, Jan. 4, 1974; T.D. 7384, 40 FR 49325, Oct. 22, 1975; T.D. 7415, 41 FR 14369, Apr. 5, 1976; T.D. 8524, 59 FR 10076, Mar. 3, 1994]

# Determination of Interest Rate
§ 301.6621-1
Interest rate.
(a)
In general.
The interest rate established under section 6621 shall be—
(1) On amounts outstanding before July 1, 1975, 6 percent per annum (or 4 percent in the case of certain extensions of time for payment of taxes as provided in sections 6601 (b) and (j) prior to amendment by section 7(b) of the Act of Jan. 3, 1975 (Pub. L. 93-625, 88 Stat. 2115), and certain overpayments of the unrelated business income tax as provided in section 514(b)(3)(D), prior to its amendment by such Act).
(2) On amounts outstanding—
After
And before
Rate per annum (percent)
June 30, 1975
Feb. 1, 1976
9
Jan. 31, 1976
Feb. 1, 1978
7
Jan. 31, 1978
Feb. 1, 1980
6
Jan. 31, 1980
Feb. 1, 1982
12
Jan. 31, 1982
Jan. 1, 1983
20
(3) On amounts outstanding after December 31, 1982, the adjusted rate established by the Commissioner under section 6621(b). This adjusted rate shall be published by the Commissioner in a Revenue Ruling. See § 301.6622-1 for application of daily compounding in determining interest accruing after December 31, 1982. Because interest accruing after December 31, 1982, accrues at the prescribed rate per annum compounded daily, the effective annual percentage rate of interest will exceed the prescribed rate of interest.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Applicability of interest rate
—(1)
Computation.
Interest and additions to tax on any amount outstanding on a specific day shall be computed at the annual rate applicable on such day.
(2)
Additions to tax.
Additions to tax under any section of the Code that refers to the annual rate established under this section, including sections 644(a)(2)(B), 4497(c)(2), 6654(a), and 6655 (a) and (g), shall be computed at the same rate per annum as the interest rate set forth under paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)
Interest.
Interest provided for under any section of the Code that refers to the annual rate established under this section, including sections 47(d)(3)(G), 167(q), 6332(c)(1), 6343(c), 6601(a), 6602, 6611(a), 7426(g), and section 1961(c)(1) or 2411 of title 28 of the United States Code, shall be computed at the rate per annum set forth under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. Example 6 illustrates the computation of interest for interest accuring after December 31, 1982.

# Example 1.
A, an individual, files an income tax return for the calendar year 1974 on April 15, 1975, showing a tax due of $1,000. A pays the $1,000 on September 1, 1975. Pursuant to section 6601(a), interest on the underpayment of $1,000 is computed at the rate of 6 percent per annum from April 15, 1975, to June 30, 1975, a total of 76 days. Interest for 63 days, from June 30, 1975, to September 1, 1975, shall be computed at the rate of 9 percent per annum.

# Example 2.
An executor of an estate is granted, in accordance with section 6161(a)(2)(A), a two-year extension of time for payment of the estate tax shown on the estate tax return, which tax was otherwise due
on January 15, 1974. The tax is paid on January 15, 1976. Interest on the underpayment shall be computed at the rate of 4 percent per annum from January 15, 1974, to June 30, 1975, and at the rate of 9 percent per annum from June 30, 1975, to January 15, 1976.

# Example 3.
X, a corporation, files its 1973 corporate income tax return on March 15, 1974, and pays the balance of tax due shown thereon. On August 1, 1975, an assessment of a deficiency is made against X with respect to such tax. The deficiency is paid on October 1, 1975. Interest at the rate of 6 percent per annum is due on the deficiency from March 15, 1974, the due date of the return, to June 30, 1975, and at the rate of 9 percent per annum from June 30, 1975, to October 1, 1975.

# Example 4.
Y, an individual, files an amended individual income tax return on October 1, 1975, for the refund of an overpayment of income tax Y made on April 15, 1975. Interest is allowed on the overpayment to December 1, 1975. Pursuant to section 6611(a), interest is computed at the rate of 6 percent per annum from April 15, 1975, the date of overpayment, to June 30, 1975. Interest from June 30, 1975, to December 1, 1975, shall be computed at the rate of 9 percent per annum.

# Example 5.
A, an individual, is liable for an addition to tax under section 6654 for the underpayment of estimated tax from April 15, 1975 until January 15, 1976. The addition to tax shall be computed at the annual rate of 6 percent per annum from April 15, 1975, to June 30, 1975, and at the annual rate of 9 percent per annum from June 30, 1975, to January 15, 1976.

# Example 6.
B, an individual, files an income tax return for calendar year 1980 on April 15, 1981, showing a tax due of $1,000. B pays the $1,000 on March 1, 1983. Under section 6601 (a), interest on the $1,000 underpayment is due from April 15, 1981, to March 1, 1983. Such interest is computed at the rate of 12 percent per annum, simple interest from April 15, 1981, to January 31, 1982, and at the rate of 20 percent per annum, simple interest from January 31, 1982, to December 31, 1982, and at the rate of 16 percent per annum, compounded daily, from December 31, 1982, to March 1, 1983. The total simple interest accrued but unpaid at the end of December 31, 1982, is combined with the $1,000 underpayment for purposes of determining the amount of daily compounded interest to be charged from December 31, 1982, to March 1, 1983.
[T.D. 7907, 48 FR 38230, Aug. 23, 1983; 48 FR 41018, Sept. 13, 1983; 48 FR 41581, Sept. 16, 1983]
§ 301.6621-2T
Questions and answers relating to the increased rate of interest on substantial underpayments attributable to certain tax motivated transactions (temporary).
The following questions and answers relate to the increased rate of interest on substantial underpayments attributable to certain tax motivated transactions as provided in section 6621(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as added by section 144 of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-369, 98 Stat. 682):
Q-1. What is the annual interest rate under section 6621 for purposes of computing the amount of interest that must be paid under section 6601 (relating to interest on underpayments)?
A-1. In general, the annual interest rate for purposes of section 6601 is the adjusted rate of interest established under section 6621 (b) § 301.6621-1 (“adjusted rate”). If, however, a tax motivated underpayment (as defined in A-2 of this section) for a taxable year is substantial (as defined in A-7 of this section), section 6621(d) provides that the annual rate of interest with respect to the tax motivated underpayment is 120 percent of the adjusted rate (“120 percent rate”), rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent.
Q-2. What is a tax motivated underpayment?
A-2. A tax motivated underpayment is the portion of a deficiency (as defined in section 6211) of tax imposed by subtitle A (income taxes) that is attributable to any of the following tax motivated transactions:
(1) Any instance in which the value of any property, or the adjusted basis of any property, claimed on a return is 150 percent or more of the amount determined to be the correct amount of such valuation or adjusted basis (
i.e.,
a valuation overstatement within the meaning of section 6659(c)(1));
(2) Any loss disallowed for any period by reason of section 465(a) or any amount included in gross income by reason of section 465(e);
(3) Any credit disallowed for any period by reason of section 46(c)(8) or section 48(d)(6);
(4) Any loss disallowed for any period with respect to a straddle, as defined in section 1092(c), but without regard to sections 1092 (d) and (e);
(5) Any use of an accounting method that may result in a substantial distortion of income for any period (see A-3 of this section); and
(6) Any deduction disallowed with respect to any other tax motivated transactions (see A-4 of this section).
Q-3. What accounting methods may result in a substantial distortion of income for any period under A-2(5) of this section?
A-3. A deduction or credit disallowed, or income included, in any of the circumstances listed below shall be treated as attributable to the use of an accounting method that may result in a substantial distortion of income and shall thus be a tax motivated transaction that results in a tax motivated underpayment:
(1) Any deduction disallowed for any period by reason of section 464 or section 278(b), relating to certain expenses of farming syndicates;
(2) In the case of a taxpayer who computes taxable income using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, any interest deduction disallowed for any period by reason of section 461(g), relating to prepaid interest, provided the interest is not paid with respect to indebtedness incurred in connection with (i) the purchase, refinancing, or improvement of the principal residence of the taxpayer, or (ii) the purchase of consumer goods by the taxpayer;
(3) Any interest deduction disallowed for any period because the amount of the claimed deduction was computed using a method resulting in an amount of interest for a period that exceeds the true cost of the indebtedness for the period computed by applying the effective rate of interest on the loan to the unpaid balance of the loan for the period (
i.e.,
the economic accrual of interest for the period), provided the interest is not accrued with respect to indebtedness incurred in connection with (i) the purchase, refinancing, or improvement of the principal residence of the taxpayer, or (ii) the purchase of consumer goods by the taxpayer (see Rev. Rul. 83-84, 1983-1 C.B. 97, and sections 163(e), 446(b), and 483);
(4) Any deduction disallowed for any period under section 709, relating to organization or syndication expenditures of a partnership;
(5) In the case of any expenditure described in section 248(b) that was incurred by an S corporation, any deduction disallowed because it exceeds the amount allowable under section 248, relating to organizational expenditures;
(6) Any deduction disallowed for any period under section 267(a), relating to transactions between related taxpayers;
(7) Any deduction disallowed for any period, or any income required to be included for any period, under section 467, relating to certain payments for the use of property or services;
(8) Any deduction disallowed for any period under section 461(i), relating to certain deductions of tax shelters; and
(9) In the case of a taxpayer who computes taxable income using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, any deduction disallowed for any period because (i) the expenditure resulting in the deduction was a deposit rather than a payment, (ii) the expenditure was prepaid for tax avoidance purposes and not for a business purpose, or (iii) the deduction resulted in a material distortion of income (see, e.g., Rev. Rul. 79-229, 1979-2 C.B. 210).
Q-4. Are any transaction other than those specified in A-2 of this section and those involving the use of accounting methods under circumstances specified in A-3 of this section considered tax motivated transactions under A-2(6) of this section?
A-4. Yes. Deductions disallowed under the following provisions are considered to be attributable to tax motivated transactions:
(1) Any deduction disallowed for any period under section 183, relatiing to an activity engaged in by an individual or an S corporation that is not engaged in for profit, and
(2) Any deduction disallowed for any period under section 165(c)(2), relating to any transaction not entered into for profit.
Q-5. How is the amount of a tax motivated underpayment determined?
A-5. Except as provided in A-6 of this section, the amount of a tax motivated underpayment is determined in the following manner:
(1) Calculate the amount of the tax liability for the taxable year as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“total tax liability”); and
(2) Without taking into account any adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are attributable to tax motivated transactions (as defined in A-2 through A-4 of this section), calculate the amount of the tax liability for the taxable year as if all other items of income, gain loss, deduction, or credit had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“tax liability without regard to tax motivated transactions”).
(3) The difference between the total tax liability and the tax liability without regard to tax motivated transactions is the amount of the tax motivated underpayment.

# Example.
Taxpayer A, a calendar year taxpayer, files his 1984 income tax return reporting $70,000 of taxable income and $23,171 of tax liability. On January 20, 1986, A enters into a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service that includes the following adjustments;
Section 162 deduction disallowed (not tax motivated)
$7,500
Loss disallowed under section 465 (tax motivated—see A-2(2) of this section)
5,000
Section 170 deduction disallowed because of a valuation overstatement (tax motivated—see A-2(1) of this section)
10,000
Loss disallowed with respect to a straddle as defined in section 1092(c) (tax motivated—see A-2(4) of this section)
7,000
Other adjustments (none of which are tax motivated)
4,000
1. Reported taxable income
70,000
(Add all adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit (including tax motivated transactions subject to section 6621(d)))
+ 33,500
Tax = $39,685 (“total tax liability”)
103,500
2. Reported taxable income
70,000
(Add adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit other than those with respect to items that are tax motivated)
+ 11,500
Tax = $28,691 (“tax liability without regard to tax motivated transactions”)
81,500
The tax motivated underpayment (
i.e.
, the underpayment attributable to tax motivated transactions) is $10,994 ($39,685−$28,691). Accordingly, the interest on $10,994 would be computed at the 120 percent rate.
The remainder of the underpayment (
i.e.,
the underpayment not attributable to tax motivated transactions) is $5,520 ($28,691 (tax liability without regard to tax motivated items)−$23,171 (tax paid with return)). The interest on $5,520 would be computed at the adjusted rate.
Q-6: How are the amounts of the tax motivated underpayment and the underpayment attributable to fraud or negligence determined if all or a portion of the taxpayer's underpayment is attributable to one or more tax motivated transactions and all or a portion is subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6653(a)(2) (in the case of an underpayment attributable to negligence or intentional disregard) or section 6653(b)(2) (in the case of an underpayment attributable to fraud)?
A-6: If all or a portion of the taxpayer's underpayment is attributable to tax motivated transactions, and all or a portion is attributable to fraudulent or negligent items (
i.e.,
items that result in an underpayment subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6653 (a)(2) or (b)(2)), the amount of the tax motivated underpayment and the underpayment attributable to fraud or negligence is determined in the following manner:
(1) Determine the following amounts;
(i) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“total tax liability”);
(ii) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are both (a) attributable to tax motivated transactions and (b) subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2), had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent tax motivated items”);
(iii) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2), had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“tax
liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items”);
(iv) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are either subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2) or attributable to tax motivated transactions, had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer (“tax liability without regard to tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent items”).
(2) The tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is the excess of the total tax liability over the tax liability determined without regard to fraudulent or negligent tax motivated items ((i)-(ii)).
(3) The tax motivated underpayment is the sum of (a) the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items ((i)-(ii)) plus (b) the excess of the tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items over the tax liability without regard to tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent items ((iii)-(iv)). Interest on this underpayment is computed at the 120 percent rate.
(4) The underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is the excess of the total tax liability over the tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items ((i)-(iii)). The section 6653 addition to tax is 50 percent of the interest on this underpayment computed at the 120 percent rate on an amount equal to the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items (computed in (2)) and at the adjusted rate on the remainder.

# Example.
Taxpayer A, a calendar year taxpayer, files his 1984 income tax return reporting $70,000 of taxable income and $23,171 of tax liability. On January 20, 1986, A enters into a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service that includes the following adjustments:
Section 162 deduction disallowed (not tax motivated but fraudulent or negligent)
$7,500
Loss disallowed under section 465(a) (tax motivated—see A-2(2) of this section—and fraudulent or negligent)
5,000
Section 170 deduction disallowed because of a valuation overstatement (tax motivated—see A-2(1) of this section—but not fraudulent or negligent
10,000
Loss disallowed with respect to a straddle as defined in section 1092(c) (tax motivated—see A-2(4) of this section but not fraudulent or negligent)
7,000
Other adjustments (none of which are tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent)
4,000
The tax motivated underpayment is determined in the following manner:
(1)(i) Reported taxable income
$70,000
(Add all adjustment
+ 33,500
Tax = $39,685 (“total tax liability”)
103,500
(ii) Reported taxable income
70,000
All adjustments other than those with respect to items that are both tax motivated and fraudulent or negligent
+ 28,500
Tax = $37,185 (“tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent, tax motivated items”)
98,500
(iii) Reported taxable income
70,000
(All adjustments other than those with respect to items that are fraudulent or negligent)
+ 21,000
Tax = $33,435 (“tax liability without regard fraudulent or negligent items”)
91,000
(iv) Reported taxable income
70,000
(All adjustments other than those with respect to items that are either tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent)
+ 4,000
Tax = $25,091 (“tax liability without regard to tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent items”)
74,000
(2) The tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is $2,500 ((i))-(ii) or $39,685−$37,185).
(3) The tax motivated underpayment is $10,844 ((2) + ((iii)-(iv)) or $2,500 + ($33,435−$25,091)). Interest on $10,844 is computed at the 120 percent rate.
(4) The underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is $6,250 ((i)-(iii) or $39,685−$33,435). The section 6653 addition to tax is 50 percent of the interest on $6,250, computed at the 120 percent rate on an amount equal to the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items ($2,500) and at the adjusted rate on the remainder ($3,750).
(5) In summary, therefore, the total underpayment is $16,514 (total tax liability ($39,685) less reported tax liability ($23,171)) of which $10,844 accrues interest at the 120 percent rate and $5,670 ($16,514−$10,844) accrues interest at the adjusted rate. In addition, $6,250 of the underpayment is subject to the section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2) addition to tax. The underlying interest, upon which the addition to tax is based, is
computed using the 120 percent rate for the portion of the underpayment subject to section 6621(d) ($2,500) and the adjusted rate for the portion that is not subject to section 6621(d) ($3,750).
Q-7. Does the 120 percent rate apply to all tax motivated underpayments?
A-7. No. The 120 percent rate applies only if the tax motivated underpayment for the taxable year is substantial. A tax motivated underpayment is substantial only if it exceeds $1,000. If, for example, a taxpayer has a $600 underpayment attributable to a valuation overstatement (within the meaning of section 6659(c)(1)) and a $500 underpayment attributable to a loss disallowed under section 465(a), the amount of the tax motivated underpayment is $1,100. Because the amount of the tax motivated underpayment is thus substantial the 120 percent rate applies.
Q-8. How do carryovers affect the amount of the tax motivated underpayment and the amount of the underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items?
A-8. For purposes of A-5 and A-6 of this section, a net operating loss carryover, capital loss carryover, or credit carryover is treated as a deduction or credit in the year in which taken into account. In any computation of tax liability required under A-5 or A-6 of this section (
i.e.,
total tax liability, tax liability without regard to tax motivated transactions, etc.), the amount of such deduction or credit is the amount of the carryover determined as if the taxpayer had properly reported in each taxable year all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit affecting the amount of the carryover other than adjustments of a type not taken into account in such computation of tax liability. A net operating loss carryback, capital loss carryback, or credit carryback is not taken into account, however, in determining the amount of the tax motivated underpayment or the amount of the underpayment attributable to fraud or negligence for periods before the last date prescribed for filing the income tax return for the taxable year in which the carryback arises (determined without regard to extensions).
Q-9. What amount is subject to the 120 percent rate if the amount of a taxpayer's unpaid tax for a year is less than the taxpayer's substantial tax motivated underpayment?
A-9. The 120 percent rate applies with respect to the lesser of—
(1) The amount of unpaid tax for the taxable year determined in accordance with § 301.6601-1; or
(2) The substantial tax motivated underpayment for the taxable year.
Q-10. What is the effective date for the 120 percent rate?
A-10. The 120 percent rate applies to interest accruing on a deficiency attributable to a substantial tax motivated underpayment after December 31, 1984, including interest accruing with respect to transactions described in A-3 and A-4 of this section, regardless of the date prescribed for payment of the tax.

# Example.
Taxpayer A files his income tax return on April 15, 1983 (the last date prescribed for payment of tax for taxable year 1982 under section 6601). In January 1985, Taxpayer A files a petition in the Tax Court in response to a statutory notice of deficiency for taxable year 1982, which includes a tax motivated underpayment of $10,000. In September 1986, the Tax Court enters a decision for the Internal Revenue Service. Under section 6601, interest accrues at the adjusted rate, compounded daily, on tax motivated underpayments outstanding before January 1, 1985, and at the 120 percent rate, compounded daily, on amounts outstanding after December 31, 1984. The underpayment that is subject to the 120 percent rate includes both the $10,000 tax motivated underpayment and the interest that accrued on the underpayment at the adjusted rate from April 16, 1983, through December 31, 1984.
Q-11. Can a taxpayer stop the running of interest on a tax motivated underpayment by application of a remittance?
A-11. Yes. The running of interest on a tax liability stops on the date the remittance (either a payment of tax or a deposit in the nature of a cash bond) is received by the Internal Revenue Service, regardless of when the liability is assessed or the remittance is actually applied against the taxpayer's account. A taxpayer must make a remittance for both the tax liability and the interest that has accrued as of the date of remittance to stop the running of interest on both the tax liability and the
accrued interest with respect to the liability. (See Rev. Proc. 84-58.) Taxpayer cannot make partial remittances applicable only to tax motivated underpayments. Under A-9 of this section, the 120 percent rate applies to the amount of unpaid tax to the extent that amount does not exceed the tax motivated underpayment. Therefore, a partial remittance is applied first to any tax due that is not attributable to a tax motivated underpayment. The excess of the partial remittance over tax that is not attributable to a tax motivated underpayment, if any, will then be applied to tax due that is attributable to a tax motivated underpayment.
Q-12. Does the 120 percent rate apply to interest accruing on interest, penalties, additional amounts, or additions to tax as provided in section 6601(e)(2)?
A-12. The 120 percent rate applies only to taxes imposed by subtitle A (income taxes) and to interest accrued with respect to such taxes. The penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax specified in section 6601(e)(2) are not imposed by subtitle A and are not, therefore, included in the amount of a tax motivated underpayment. They are, however, included in the amount of unpaid tax for purposes of A-9 of this section.

# Example.
Taxpayer A, for taxable year 1984, has a $10,000 tax motivated underpayment and a $2,000 addition to tax for a total unpaid tax of $12,000. If A makes a $5,000 payment of tax, he will still have a $10,000 tax motivated underpayment but will now have only $7,000 of unpaid tax. Pursuant to A-9 of this section, therefore, the 120 percent rate would apply to the $7,000 of unpaid tax.
(Secs. 6621(d) and 7805, Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (98 Stat. 682, 26 U.S.C. 6621(d); 68A Stat. 917, 26 U.S.C. 7805))
[T.D. 7998, 49 FR 50391, Dec. 28, 1984]
§ 301.6621-3
Higher interest rate payable on large corporate underpayments.
(a)
In general.
Section 6621 establishes the interest rate for purposes of computing the amount of interest that must be paid under section 6601, relating to interest on underpayments of tax. Section 6621(a)(2) provides that the underpayment rate is the sum of the Federal short-term rate (determined under section 6621(b)) plus 3 percentage points. That underpayment rate is referred to hereinafter as the “section 6621(a)(2) rate.” Section 6621(c) and this section, however, provide that the underpayment rate on any large corporate underpayment is the sum of the Federal short-term rate (determined under section 6621(b)) plus 5 percentage points. This higher underpayment rate is referred to hereinafter as the “section 6621(c) rate.” The section 6621(c) rate applies only for periods after the applicable date (as determined in paragraph (c) of this section).
(b)
Large corporate underpayment
—(1)
Defined.
For purposes of section 6621(c) and this section, “large corporate underpayment” means any underpayment of a tax by a C corporation for any taxable period if the amount of the threshold underpayment of the tax (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section) for that taxable period exceeds $100,000.
(2)
Underpayment of a tax
—(i)
In general.
As used in section 6621(c) and this section, “underpayment of a tax” means the excess of a tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code over the amount of such tax paid on or before the last date prescribed for payment. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, “tax” for such purposes includes interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax. See sections 6601(e)(1), 6665(a), and 6671(a). Thus, the section 6621(c) rate generally applies to any interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax, as well as to the underlying tax with respect to which such amounts are imposed.
(ii)
Threshold underpayment of a tax.
Solely for purposes of this section and not for any other purpose under section 6621(c) or elsewhere in the interpretation or administration of the federal tax laws, a “threshold underpayment of a tax” is the excess of a tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code (exclusive of interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax) for the taxable period over the amount of such tax paid on or before the last date prescribed for payment. Thus, any payments made after the last date prescribed for payment (for example, by
way of an amended return) will not affect the existence of a threshold underpayment. In determining whether there is a threshold underpayment, different types of taxes (such as income tax and FICA tax) and amounts that relate to different taxable periods are not added together.
(iii)
When determined
—(A)
In general.
The existence of a threshold underpayment of a tax and the amount of a large corporate underpayment are generally determined only when an assessment is made with respect to the taxable period. Thus, the amount of a deficiency or proposed deficiency set forth in a letter or notice pursuant to which the applicable date is determined (under paragraph (c) of this section) does not determine whether there is a large corporate underpayment.
(B)
Judicial determinations.
Notwithstanding any prior assessment made with respect to a taxable period, the section 6621(c) rate does not apply if, after a federal court determines the taxpayer's liability for a period, the threshold underpayment for that taxable period does not exceed $100,000. See Example 3 in paragraph (d) of this section.
(iv)
Special rule.
The section 6621(c) rate is not used to compute the interest charges that a taxpayer timely assesses against itself in return for using a method of tax accounting or reporting that defers the payment of tax, such as the interest charges relating to passive foreign investment companies under section 1291(c) and installment obligations of nondealers under section 453A(c). However, to the extent such charges are not paid on or before the last date prescribed for payment and therefore become part of an underpayment of a tax, the section 6621(c) rate will apply to such amounts for periods after the applicable date (as determined in paragraph (c) of this section).
(3)
C corporation defined.
For purposes of section 6621(c)(3)(A) and this section, “C corporation” means, with respect to any taxable period, a corporation that is a C corporation during any part of the taxable period. Interest on a large corporate underpayment for a taxable period continues to be imposed at the section 6621(c) rate even if during or after the taxable period—
(i) The taxpayer ceases to be a C corporation; or
(ii) The underpayment becomes the liability of a successor or transferee that is not a C corporation.
(4)
Taxable period.
For purposes of section 6621(c) and this section, the “taxable period” is the taxable year in the case of any tax imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case of any other tax, the “taxable period” is the period to which the underpayment relates. For example, the taxable period for an underpayment of FICA taxes is the calendar quarter. If the underpayment does not relate to a particular period (for example, in the case of certain transactional excise taxes), the “taxable period” is the period covered by a return on which the tax is required to be shown.
(5)
Last date prescribed for payment.
For purposes of this section, the “last date prescribed for payment” means the last date prescribed for payment as determined, without regard to any extension of time, under section 6601(b).
(c)
Applicable date
—(1)
In general.
The section 6621(c) rate applies only to periods after the applicable date. Pursuant to the effective date of section 6621(c) and paragraph (e) of this section, however, the section 6621(c) rate will not apply prior to January 1, 1991, even if the applicable date is prior to December 31, 1990. A letter or notice relating to a particular type of tax creates an applicable date only for that type of tax. For example, a letter or notice with respect to FUTA tax will not create an applicable date with respect to income tax for the same taxable year.
(2)
When deficiency procedures apply.
The applicable date, in the case of any underpayment of a tax to which the deficiency procedures of subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code apply, is the 30th day after the earlier of—
(i) The date on which the Service sends the taxpayer the first letter of proposed deficiency that allows the taxpayer an opportunity for administrative review in the Service's Office of Appeals (commonly called a “30-day letter”); or
(ii) The date on which the Service sends a deficiency notice under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code (commonly called a “90-day letter”).
(3)
When deficiency procedures do not apply.
The applicable date, in the case of any underpayment of a tax to which the deficiency procedures do not apply, is the 30th day after the date on which the Service sends the first letter or notice that notifies the taxpayer of an assessment or proposed assessment of the tax. In the case of income taxes, for example, the deficiency procedures do not apply to amounts shown as due on the taxpayer's return if the taxpayer fails to remit the full amount on or before the last date prescribed for payment, and to amounts attributable to mathematical or clerical errors on a return (unless a request for abatement is filed by the taxpayer under section 6213(b)). Because no 30-day letter or 90-day letter is issued to the taxpayer in such cases, the applicable date is the 30th day after the date on which an assessment notice under section 6303 of the Internal Revenue Code is sent.
(4)
Partnership items.
For purposes of section 6621(c) and this paragraph (c), 60-day letters and the notices described in sections 6223(a)(1) and 6223(a)(2) (relating to administrative proceedings at the partnership level) are not treated as letters of proposed deficiency that allow the taxpayer an opportunity for administrative review in the Service's Office of Appeals, deficiency notices under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code, or letters or notices that notify the taxpayer of an assessment or proposed assessment of the tax. Thus, in the absence of any other letter or notice described in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section that establishes an earlier applicable date, the applicable date in the case of any underpayment of a tax attributable, in whole or in part, to a partnership item (as defined in section 6231(a)(3)) is the 30th day after the date on which the Service sends the first letter or notice that notifies the taxpayer of an assessment of the tax.
(5)
Exception of payment of amount shown as due
—(i)
In general.
A letter of notice will be disregarded for purposes of determining the applicable date if the taxpayer makes a payment equal to the amount shown as due in the letter or notice within 30 days from the date that the Service sends the letter or notice.
(ii)
Special transition rule.
A letter or notice sent by the Service prior to January 1, 1991, will be disregarded by the Service for purposes of determining the applicable date if the taxpayer makes a payment on or before January 31, 1991, equal to the amount shown as due in the letter or notice plus a reasonable estimate of the interest payable on such amount computed by applying the section 6621(a)(2) rate. If the taxpayer has received two or more letters or notices with respect to the same tax for the same taxable period and pays the amount shown as due in the last letter or notice sent prior to December 19, 1990, (plus a reasonable estimate of the interest), all of the prior letters and notices with respect to the same tax for the same taxable period will be disregarded under this paragraph (c)(5)(ii). In the case of an assessment notice, the payment of the amount of interest shown as due on the last assessment notice sent to the taxpayer prior to December 19, 1990, will be treated as a payment of a reasonable estimate of the interest payable on the amount shown in that assessment notice or in any prior assessment notice sent with respect to the same tax for the same taxable period. The special transition rule in this paragraph (c)(5)(ii) applies even if the payment is not made within 30 days of the date on which the Service sent the letter or notice.
(iii)
Amount shown as due.
For purposes of section 6621(c)(2)(B)(ii) and this paragraph (c)(5), the “amount shown as due” in any letter or notice means the total amount of tax, as well as any interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax that are set forth in the letter or notice. A deposit in the nature of a cash bond will not be considered a payment of the amount shown as due.
(6)
Exception for withdrawn letters and notices
—(i)
Letters of proposed deficiency.
A letter of proposed deficiency will be disregarded for purposes of determining the applicable date if the letter of proposed deficiency is issued as a result of an administrative error either to the
wrong taxpayer or for the wrong taxable period.
(ii)
Deficiency notices.
A deficiency notice under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code will be disregarded for purposes of determining the applicable date if the deficiency notice is rescinded under section 6212(d).
(iii)
Assessment letters and notices.
A letter or notice that notifies the taxpayer of an assessment or proposed assessment of tax will be disregarded for purposes of determining the applicable date if the full amount of tax assessed is subsequently abated.
(d)
Examples.
The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1.
V, a C corporation, timely files Form 941 on January 31, 1991, for the fourth quarter of 1990. On September 1, 1992, the Service sends V a section 6303 notice and demand reflecting an additional FICA tax liability for that quarter of $90,000. Interest computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate totals $15,000 as of September 1, 1992. Accordingly, V's underpayment of FICA tax for the fourth quarter of 1990 exceeds $100,000. However, V's $90,000 threshold underpayment of FICA tax for that taxable period is less than $100,000, so that the section 6621(c) rate will not apply to the underpayment for that taxable period.

# Example 2.
(i) W, a C corporation, timely files its 1990 income tax return on March 15, 1991, showing a liability of $95,000, of which W pays only $35,000 with the return. On June 1, 1991, the Service sends W an assessment notice reflecting the balance due of $60,000 plus interest computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate. W pays all amounts due on August 1, 1991. On July 1, 1993, the Service sends W a 90-day letter (without having sent a 30-day letter) reflecting an additional income tax deficiency of $85,000 for the taxable year 1990. W files a petition in the Tax Court within 90 days. In 1995, the Tax Court determines a $50,000 income tax deficiency (exclusive of interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax) for 1990, which the Service promptly assesses against W.
(ii) As a result of the combination of the failure to timely pay the $60,000 of income tax reported as due on the return and the Tax Court's determination of an additional deficiency of $50,000, W's threshold underpayment of income tax for 1990 is $110,000. Because W is a C corporation and the threshold underpayment for 1990 exceeds $100,000, the section 6621(c) rate applies to W's 1990 large corporate underpayment for periods after the applicable date.
(iii) The applicable date is July 1, 1991, the 30th day after the date on which the Service sent W the first assessment notice.
(iv) From March 16, 1991, through July 1, 1991, interest on W's 1990 underpayment of income tax (including any interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax) is computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate. From July 2, 1991, such interest is computed at the section 6621(c) rate.
(v) If W had paid the amount shown as due on the June 1, 1991, assessment notice on or before June 30, 1991, instead of on August 1, 1991, the applicable date would have been July 31, 1993.
(vi) Assume that W had paid the amount shown as due on the June 1, 1991, assessment notice on or before June 30, 1991. If W had made a $40,000 deposit in the nature of a cash bond on July 15, 1993, the applicable date would be July 31, 1993. Moreover, the deposit would have no effect on the existence or amount of W's threshold underpayment or large corporate underpayment for 1990. In such a case, however, when the Service assesses the amount due from W in 1995, the deposit would be treated as a payment made as of July 15, 1993, for purposes of computing interest due after that date. As a result, interest would accrue after July 15, 1993, (at the section 6621(c) rate) only on the portion of W's 1990 underpayment that exceeds the $40,000 deposit amount.

# Example 3.
(i) X, a C corporation, filed its 1989 income tax return ,on September 17, 1990, pursuant to an automatic extension. X enclosed payment of the $7,500 balance reported on the return as due (plus interest). On January 1, 1992, the Service sends X a written notification that X's 1989 income tax return is being examined. This written notification also contains a request that X provide supplemental information with respect to particular deductions totalling $1.5 million. On July 1, 1993, the Service sends X a 30-day letter proposing a $450,000 deficiency (without any reference to penalties, additional amounts, additions to tax, and interest) with respect to 1989. On December 15, 1993, the Service sends X a 90-day letter asserting a deficiency of $300,000 (excluding penalties, additional amounts, additions to tax, and other interest). X does not file a Tax Court petition and the Service assesses the $300,000 (plus interest and penalties) on April 1, 1994. On April 5, 1994, X pays the full amount assessed. Thereafter, X timely files an administrative claim for refund and a refund suit in federal district court for the amounts assessed on April 1, 1994. On September 30, 1995, the federal district court determines that, exclusive of interest and penalties, X overpaid its 1989 income tax by $250,000.
(ii) The April 1, 1994, assessment establishes at that time that X's threshold underpayment of income tax for 1989 is $300,000.
Because X is a C corporation and the threshold underpayment for 1989 exceeds $100,000, X's underpayment of income tax for 1989 is a large corporate underpayment to which the section 6621(c) rate applies for periods after the applicable date. X's decision to file a refund claim does not affect, in and of itself, either the existence of a threshold underpayment or the amount of X's large corporate underpayment.
(iii) For purposes of determining the amount of interest to assess on April 1, 1994, the applicable date is July 31, 1993, the 30th day after the date on which the Service sent X a 30-day letter. The January 1, 1992, notice of examination and request for additional information has no effect on the applicable date. Similarly, the September 30, 1995, federal district court decision has no effect on the applicable date.
(iv) From March 16, 1990, through July 31, 1993, interest on X's 1989 underpayment of income tax (including any interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax) is computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate. From August 1, 1993, through April 5, 1994, such interest is computed at the section 6621(c) rate.
(v) Because of the federal district court's decision that X's underpayment, exclusive of interest and penalties, was only $50,000, X does not have a large corporate underpayment of income tax for 1989. Thus, the interest X paid with respect to the remaining $250,000 in taxes (exclusive of interest and penalties) becomes part of the overpayment and will be refunded. In addition, any interest computed at the section 6621(c) rate for the period from August 1, 1993, through April 5, 1994, should be recomputed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate and the difference refunded.

# Example 4.
(i) Y, a C corporation, timely filed its 1989 income tax return on March 15, 1990, and enclosed payment of the amount reported on the return as due. On May 1, 1990, the Service sent to Y an assessment notice for $1,000 resulting from a math error on Y's return. Y did not request an abatement of the assessment pursuant to section 6213(b). Instead, Y paid the $1,000, plus interest, on July 31, 1990. On March 31, 1992, the Service sends Y a 90-day letter showing an income tax deficiency for 1989 of $125,000 (exclusive of interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax). No 30-day letter had been issued previously to Y in connection with its 1989 taxable year. Y does not file a petition with the Tax Court, but files an amended return for 1989 on April 15, 1992, showing $30,000 of tax due. Y pays this amount (plus interest from March 15, 1990, computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate) with the amended return. Shortly thereafter, the Service assesses the $125,000 deficiency (plus interest) and credits the April 15, 1992, payment against the assessment.
(ii) Y's threshold underpayment for 1989 is $125,000 notwithstanding Y's April 15, 1992, payment of $30,000. Because Y is a C corporation and the threshold underpayment for 1989 exceeds $100,000, Y has a large corporate underpayment of income tax for the taxable period 1989 to which the section 6621(c) rate applies for periods after the applicable date.
(iii) Because Y paid the $1,000 amount shown as due on the math error assessment notice (plus interest) on or before January 31, 1991, the applicable date is April 30, 1992, the 30th day after the 90-day letter is sent.
(iv) From March 16, 1990, through April 30, 1992, interest is computed on Y's underpayment of income tax (including any interest, penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax) at the section 6621(a)(2) rate. From May 1, 1992, such interest is computed at the section 6621(c) rate.
(v) If Y had not paid the $1,000 amount shown as due on the math error assessment notice (plus interest) on or before January 31, 1991, the applicable date would have been May 31, 1990, and interest would be computed at the section 6621(c) rate beginning on January 1, 1991. If, however, Y had timely requested an abatement of the assessment under section 6213(b), the applicable date would be April 30, 1992.

# Example 5.
(i) Effective January 1, 1993, Y converts from a C corporation to an S corporation. On January 31, 1993 Y files its 1992 FUTA tax return and encloses a payment equal to the amount reported as due on the return. On March 15, 1993, Y files its 1992 income tax return and encloses a payment equal to the amount reported as due on the return. On August 1, 1993, the Service sends to Y an assessment notice for $150,000 of FUTA tax, plus interest, with respect to calendar year 1992. Y pays the full amount shown as due in the assessment notice on August 7, 1993. On January 1, 1995, Y files an amended income tax return for 1992 showing $15,000 of tax due. Y pays this amount with the amended return. On February 10, 1995, the Service sends Y an assessment notice for the interest payable on the $15,000. Y pays this interest on February 13, 1995.
(ii) Y's threshold underpayment of FUTA tax for 1992 is $150,000. Because Y was a C corporation in 1992 and the threshold underpayment of FUTA tax for 1992 exceeds $100,000, Y has a large corporate underpayment of FUTA tax. However, Y's threshold underpayment of income tax for the same taxable period (
i.e.,
calendar 1992) is $15,000, so that Y does not have a large corporate underpayment of income tax for that year.
(iii) Because Y pays within 30 days the amount shown as due on the August 1, 1993, assessment notice, there is no applicable date with respect to the large corporate underpayment of FUTA tax for 1992.
(iv) All of the interest payable with respect to the 1992 underpayments of FUTA and income taxes is computed at the section 6621(a)(2) rate.
(v) If Y had not paid the amount shown as due on the August 1, 1993, FUTA tax assessment notice within 30 days, the applicable date would have been August 31, 1993, (the 30th day after the assessment notice is sent). Thus, interest would have been computed at the section 6621(c) rate after that date, even though Y is not at that time a C corporation.
(vi) If the amended 1992 income tax return Y files on January 1, 1995, had shown $115,000 of tax due instead of $15,000, Y's threshold underpayment of income tax for 1992 would have been $115,000. Because Y was a C corporation in 1992 and the threshold underpayment of income tax for that year would have exceeded $100,000, Y would have a large corporate underpayment of income tax for that year. However, because Y would have paid the amount shown as due in the February 10, 1995, assessment notice within 30 days of when that assessment notice was sent, there would have been no applicable date with respect to that large corporate underpayment and the section 6621(c) rate would have not applied.

# Example 6.
(i) On August 1, 1990, the Service sent to Z, a C corporation, an assessment notice for $200,000 of income tax, plus $30,000 in interest and penalties, with respect to calendar year 1988. Subsequent assessment notices were sent to Z on September 12, 1990, October 10, 1990, and November 14, 1990, each including additional interest. The November 14, 1990, assessment notice provided that the total amount of tax, interest and penalties due was $242,000. On December 31, 1990, Z pays $230,000. On February 13, 1991, the Service sends Z an assessment notice for the remaining balance (plus additional interest thereon). On December 31, 1991, Z pays all amounts owed as of that date in connection with its 1988 income tax liability.
(ii) Z's threshold underpayment of income tax for 1988 is $200,000. Because Z is a C corporation and its threshold underpayment of income tax for 1988 exceeds $100,000, Z has a large corporate underpayment for 1988 to which the section 6621(c) rate applies for periods after the applicable date.
(iii) Notwithstanding Z's payment of $230,000 on December 31, 1990, the applicable date with respect to the large corporate underpayment of 1988 income tax is August 31, 1990, the 30th day after the date on which the Service sent the first assessment notice.
(iv) From March 16, 1989, to December 31, 1990, interest is computed on Z's underpayment of income tax (including any interest, penalties, additional amounts and additions to tax) at the section 6621(a)(2) rate. From January 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, interest is computed on that underpayment at the section 6621(c) rate.
(v) If Z had paid on or before January 31, 1991, the full $242,000 shown as due on the November 14, 1990, assessment notice, the applicable date with respect to any remaining unpaid interest would have been March 15, 1991, the 30th day after the Service sent the February 13, 1991, assessment notice.
(vi) The same result as in paragraph (v) of this
Example 6
would apply if the November 14, 1990, assessment notice had provided that only $150,000 was due with respect to calendar year 1988 (as a result of a correction by the Service of an error in its original August 1, 1990, assessment, and not as a result of any payment by Z), and if Z had paid that $150,000 on or before January 31, 1991.
(e)
Effective date.
Section 6621(c) and this section are effective for determining interest for periods after December 31, 1990, regardless of the taxable period to which the underlying tax may relate and even if the applicable date is prior to December 31, 1990.
[T.D. 8447, 57 FR 53554, Nov. 12, 1992; 57 FR 60846, Dec. 22, 1992]
§ 301.6622-1
Interest compounded daily.
(a)
General rule.
Effective for interest accruing after December 31, 1982, in computing the amount of any interest required to be paid under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or sections 1961(c)(1) or 2411 of title 28, United States Code, by the Commissioner or by the taxpayer, or in computing any other amount determined by reference to such amount of interest, or by reference to the interest rate established under section 6621, such interest or such other amount shall be compounded daily by dividing such rate of interest by 365 (366 in a leap year) and compounding such daily interest rate each day.
(b)
Exception.
Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply for purposes of determining the amount of any addition to tax under sections 6654 or 6655 (relating to failure to pay estimated income tax).
(c)
Applicability to unpaid amounts on December 31, 1982
—(1)
In general.
The unpaid interest (or other amount) that shall be compounded daily includes the interest (or other amount) accrued but unpaid on December 31, 1982.
(2)
Illustration.
The provisions of this (c) may be illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
Individual A files a tax return for calendar year 1981 on April 15, 1982, showing a tax due of $10,000. A pays $10,000 on December 31, 1982, but A does not pay any interest with respect to this underpayment until March 1, 1983, on which date A paid all amounts of interest with respect to the $10,000 underpayment of tax. On December 31, 1982, A's unsatisfied interest liability was $1,424.66 ($10,000 × 20 percent × 260/365 days). Interest, compounded daily, accrues on this unsatisfied interest obligation beginning on January 1, 1983, until March 1, 1983, the date the total interest obligation is satisfied. On March 1, 1983, the total interest obligation is $1,462.62, computed as follows:
Item
Amount
Unpaid tax at December 31, 1982
0
Unpaid interest at December 31, 1982
$1,424.66
Total unsatisfied obligation at December 31, 1982
1,424.66
Interest from December 31, 1982, to March 1, 1983, at 16 percent per year compounded daily
37.96
Total due, March 1, 1983
1,462.62
[T.D. 7907, 48 FR 38231, Aug. 23, 1983]

# Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties

# Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
§ 301.6651-1
Failure to file tax return or to pay tax.
(a)
Addition to the tax
—(1)
Failure to file tax return.
In case of failure to file a return required under authority of—
(i) Subchapter A, chapter 61 of the Code, relating to returns and records (other than sections 6015 and 6016, relating to declarations of estimated tax, and part III thereof, relating to information returns);
(ii) Subchapter A, chapter 51 of the Code, relating to distilled spirits, wines, and beer;
(iii) Subchapter A, chapter 52 of the Code, relating to cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette papers and tubes; or
(iv) Subchapter A, chapter 53 of the Code, relating to machine guns, destructive devices, and certain other firearms; and
The regulations thereunder, on or before the date prescribed for filing (determined with regard to any extension of time for such filing), there shall be added to the tax required to be shown on the return the amount specified below unless the failure to file the return within the prescribed time is shown to the satisfaction of the district director or the director of the service center to be due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. The amount to be added to the tax is 5 percent thereof if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which the failure continues, but not to exceed 25 percent in the aggregate. The amount of any addition under this subparagraph shall be reduced by the amount of the addition under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph for any month to which an addition to tax applies under both subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (a).
(2)
Failure to pay tax shown on return.
In case of failure to pay the amount shown as tax on any return (required to be filed after December 31, 1969, without regard to any extension of time for filing thereof) specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), on or before the date prescribed for payment of such tax (determined with regard to any extension of time for payment), there shall be added to the tax shown on the return the amount specified below unless the failure to pay the tax within the prescribed time is shown to the satisfaction of the district director, or, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Assistant Regional Commissioner (Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms), the director of the service center, to be due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the amount to be added to the tax is 0.5 percent of the amount of tax shown on the return if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 0.5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which the failure continues, but not to exceed 25 percent in the aggregate.
(3)
Failure to pay tax not shown on return.
In the case of failure to pay any amount of any tax required to be shown on a return specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that is not so shown (including an assessment
made pursuant to section 6213(b)) within 21 calendar days from the date of the notice and demand (10 business days if the amount assessed and shown on the notice and demand equals or exceeds $100,000) with respect to any notice and demand made after December 31, 1996, there will be added to the amount stated in the notice and demand the amount specified below unless the failure to pay the tax within the prescribed time is shown to the satisfaction of the district director or the director of the service center to be due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the amount to be added to the tax is 0.5 percent of the amount stated in the notice and demand if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 0.5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which the failure continues, but not to exceed 25 percent in the aggregate. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), see § 301.6601-1(f)(5) for the definition of
calendar day
and
business day.
(4)
Reduction of failure to pay penalty during the period an installment agreement is in effect
—(i)
In general.
In the case of a return filed by an individual on or before the due date for the return (including extensions)—
(A) The amount added to tax for a month or fraction thereof is determined by using 0.25 percent instead of 0.5 percent under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if at any time during the month an installment agreement under section 6159 is in effect for the payment of such tax; and
(B) The amount added to tax for a month or fraction thereof is determined by using 0.25 percent instead of 0.5 percent under paragraph (a)(3) of this section if at any time during the month an installment agreement under section 6159 is in effect for the payment of such tax.
(ii)
Effective date.
This paragraph (a)(4) applies for purposes of determining additions to tax for months beginning after December 31, 1999.
(b)
Month defined.
(1) If the date prescribed for filing the return or paying tax is the last day of a calendar month, each succeeding calendar month or fraction thereof during which the failure to file or pay tax continues shall constitute a month for purposes of section 6651.
(2) If the date prescribed for filing the return or paying tax is a date other than the last day of a calendar month, the period which terminates with the date numerically corresponding thereto in the succeeding calendar month and each such successive period shall constitute a month for purposes of section 6651. If, in the month of February, there is no date corresponding to the date prescribed for filing the return or paying tax, the period from such date in January through the last day of February shall constitute a month for purposes of section 6651. Thus, if a return is due on January 30, the first month shall end on February 28 (or 29 if a leap year), and the succeeding months shall end on March 30, April 30, etc.
(3) If a return is not timely filed or tax is not timely paid, the fact that the date prescribed for filing the return or paying tax, or the corresponding date in any succeeding calendar month, falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday is immaterial in determining the number of months for which the addition to the tax under section 6651 applies.
(c)
Showing of reasonable cause.
(1) Except as provided in subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph (b), a taxpayer who wishes to avoid the addition to the tax for failure to file a tax return or pay tax must make an affirmative showing of all facts alleged as a reasonable cause for his failure to file such return or pay such tax on time in the form of a written statement containing a declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury. Such statement should be filed with the district director or the director of the service center with whom the return is required to be filed;
Provided,
That where special tax returns of liquor dealers are delivered to an alcohol, tobacco and firearms officer working under the supervision of the Regional Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, such statement may be delivered with the return. If the district director, the director of the service center, or, where applicable, the Regional Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, determines that the delinquency was due to
a reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, the addition to the tax will not be assessed. If the taxpayer exercised ordinary business care and prudence and was nevertheless unable to file the return within the prescribed time, then the delay is due to a reasonable cause. A failure to pay will be considered to be due to reasonable cause to the extent that the taxpayer has made a satisfactory showing that he exercised ordinary business care and prudence in providing for payment of his tax liability and was nevertheless either unable to pay the tax or would suffer an undue hardship (as described in § 1.6161-1(b) of this chapter) if he paid on the due date. In determining whether the taxpayer was unable to pay the tax in spite of the exercise of ordinary business care and prudence in providing for payment of his tax liability, consideration will be given to all the facts and circumstances of the taxpayer's financial situation, including the amount and nature of the taxpayer's expenditures in light of the income (or other amounts) he could, at the time of such expenditures, reasonably expect to receive prior to the date prescribed for the payment of the tax. Thus, for example, a taxpayer who incurs lavish or extravagant living expenses in an amount such that the remainder of his assets and anticipated income will be insufficient to pay his tax, has not exercised ordinary business care and prudence in providing for the payment of his tax liability. Further, a taxpayer who invests funds in speculative or illiquid assets has not exercised ordinary business care and prudence in providing for the payment of his tax liability unless, at the time of the investment, the remainder of the taxpayer's assets and estimated income will be sufficient to pay his tax or it can be reasonably foreseen that the speculative or illiquid investment made by the taxpayer can be utilized (by sale or as security for a loan) to realize sufficient funds to satisfy the tax liability. A taxpayer will be considered to have exercised ordinary business care and prudence if he made reasonable efforts to conserve sufficient assets in marketable form to satisfy his tax liability and nevertheless was unable to pay all or a portion of the tax when it became due.
(2) In determining if the taxpayer exercised ordinary business care and prudence in providing for the payment of his tax liability, consideration will be given to the nature of the tax which the taxpayer has failed to pay. Thus, for example, facts and circumstances which, because of the taxpayer's efforts to conserve assets in marketable form, may constitute reasonable cause for nonpayment of income taxes may not constitute reasonable cause for failure to pay over taxes described in section 7501 that are collected or withheld from any other person.
(3) If, for a taxable year ending on or after December 31, 1995, an individual taxpayer satisfies the requirement of § 1.6081-4(a) of this chapter (relating to automatic extension of time for filing an individual income tax return), reasonable cause will be presumed, for the period of the extension of time to file, with respect to any underpayment of tax if—
(i) The excess of the amount of tax shown on the individual income tax return over the amount of tax paid on or before the regular due date of the return (by virtue of tax withheld by the employer, estimated tax payments, and any payment with an application for extension of time to file pursuant to § 1.6081-4 of this chapter) is no greater than 10 percent of the amount of tax shown on the individual income tax return; and
(ii) Any balance due shown on the individual income tax return is remitted with the return.
(4) If, for a taxable year ending on or after December 31, 1972, a corporate taxpayer satisfies the requirements of § 1.6081-3 (a) (relating to an automatic extension of time for filing a corporation income tax return), reasonable cause shall be presumed, for the period of the extension of time to file, with respect to any underpayment of tax if—
(i) The amount of tax (determined without regard to any prepayment thereof) shown on Form 7004, or the amount of tax paid on or before the regular due date of the return, is at least 90 percent of the amount of tax shown on the taxpayer's Form 1120, and
(ii) Any balance due shown on the Form 1120 is paid on, or before the due date of the return, including any extensions of time for filing.
(d)
Penalty imposed on net amount due
—(1)
Credits against the tax.
The amount of tax required to be shown on the return for purposes of section 6651(a)(1) and the amount shown as tax on the return for purposes of section 6651(a)(2) shall be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax which is paid on or before the date prescribed for payment of the tax and by the amount of any credit against the tax which may be claimed on the return.
(2)
Partial payments.
(i) The amount of tax required to be shown on the return for purposes of section 6651(a)(2) shall, for the purpose of computing the addition for any month, be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax which is paid after the date prescribed for payment and on or before the first day of such month.
(ii) The amount of tax stated in the notice and demand for purposes of section 6651(a)(3) shall, for the purpose of computing the addition for any month, be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax which is paid before the first day of such month.
(e)
No addition to tax if fraud penalty assessed.
No addition to the tax under section 6651 shall be assessed with respect to an underpayment of tax if a 50-percent addition to the tax for fraud is assessed with respect to the same underpayment under section 6653(b). See section 6653(d).
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(a) Under section 6072(a), income tax returns of individuals on a calendar year basis must be filed on or before the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar year. Assume an individual filed his income tax return for the calendar year 1969 on July 20, 1970, and the failure to file on or before the prescribed date is not due to reasonable cause. The tax shown on the return is $800 and a deficiency of $200 is subsequently assessed, making the tax required to be shown on the return, $1,000. Of this amount, $300 has been paid by withholding from wages and $400 has been paid as estimated tax. The balance due as shown on the return of $100 ($800 shown as tax on the return less $700 previously paid) is paid on August 21, 1970. The failure to pay on or before the prescribed date is not due to reasonable cause. There will be imposed, in addition to interest, an additional amount under section 6651(a)(2) of $2.50, which is 2.5 percent (2% for the 4 months from April 16 through August 15, and 0.5% for the fractional part of the month from August 16 through August 21) of the net amount due as shown on the return of $100 ($800 shown on the return less $700 paid on or before April 15). There will also be imposed an additional amount under section 6651(a)(1) of $58, determined as follows:
20 percent (5% per month for the 3 months from April 16 through July 15 and 5% for the fractional part of the month from July 16 through July 20) of the net amount due of $300 ($1,000 required to be shown on the return less $700 paid on or before April 15)
$60
Reduced by the amount of the addition imposed under section 6651(a)(2) for those months
2
Addition to tax under section 6651(a)(1)
$50
(b) A notice and demand for the $200 deficiency is issued on January 8, 1971, but the taxpayer does not pay the deficiency until December 23, 1971. In addition to interest there will be imposed an additional amount under section 6651(a)(3) of $10, determined as follows:
Addition computed without regard to limitation:
6 percent (5
1/2
% for the 11 months from January 19, 1971, through December 18, 1971, and 0.5% for the fractional part of the month from December 19 through December 23) of the amount stated in the notice and demand ($200)
$12
Limitation on addition:
25 percent of the amount stated in the notice and demand ($200)
$50
Reduced by the part of the addition under section 6651(a)(1) for failure to file attributable to the $200 deficiency (20% of $200)
$40
Maximum amount of the addition under section 6651(a)(3)
$10

# Example 2.
An individual files his income tax return for the calendar year 1969 on December 2, 1970, and such delinquency is not due to reasonable cause. The balance due, as shown on the return, of $500 is paid when the return is filed on December 2, 1970. In addition to interest and the addition for failure to pay under section 6651(a)(2) of $20 (8 months at 0.5% per month, 4%), there will also be imposed an additional amount under section 6651(a)(1) of $112.50, determined as follows:
Penalty at 5 percent for maximum of 5 months, 25 percent of $500
$125.00
Less reduction for the amount of the addition under section 6651(a)(2):
Amount imposed under section 6651(a)(2) for the months in which there is also an addition for failure to file—2
1/2
percent for the 5 months April 16 through September 15 of the net amount due ($500)
12.50
Addition to tax under section 6651(a)(1)
$112.50
(g)
Treatment of returns prepared by the Secretary
—(1)
In general.
A return prepared by the Secretary under section 6020(b) will be disregarded for purposes of determining the amount of the addition to tax for failure to file any return pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the return prepared by the Secretary will be treated as a return filed by the taxpayer for purposes of determining the amount of the addition to tax for failure to pay the tax shown on any return and for failure to pay the tax required to be shown on a return that is not so shown pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, respectively.
(2)
Effective date.
This paragraph (g) applies to returns the due date for which (determined without regard to extensions) is after July 30, 1996.
[T.D. 7133, 36 FR 13594, July 22, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7160, 37 FR 2507, Feb. 2, 1972; T.D. 7260, 38 FR 4259, Feb. 12, 1973; T.D. 8651, 61 FR 262, Jan. 4, 1996; T.D. 8703, 61 FR 69031, Dec. 31, 1996; T.D. 8725, 62 FR 39117, July 22, 1997; T.D. 8895, 65 FR 50408, Aug. 18, 2000; T.D. 9163, 69 FR 70550, Dec. 7, 2004]
§ 301.6652-1
Failure to file certain information returns.
(a)
Returns with respect to payments made in calendar years after 1962
—(1)
Payments of dividends, interest, or patronage dividends aggregating $10 or more.
In the case of each failure to file a statement required by—
(i) Section 6042(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to payments of dividends aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year, in effect with respect to payments made after December 31, 1962,
(ii) Section 6044(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to certain payments by cooperatives aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year, in effect with respect to payments made on or after the first day of the first taxable year of the cooperative beginning after December 31, 1962, with respect to patronage occurring on or after such first day, or
(iii) Section 6049(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to payments of interest aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year, in effect with respect to payments made after December 31, 1962, and the regulations under such section, within the time prescribed for filing such statement (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing), there shall be paid by the person failing to so file the statement $10 for each such statement not so filed. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures under section 6652(a) and this section during any calendar year shall not exceed $25,000.
(2)
Other payments; statements with respect to tips.
In the case of each failure—
(i) To file a statement of a payment made to another person required under authority of section 6041, relating to information returns with respect to certain information at source, or section 6051(d), relating to information returns with respect to payments of wages as defined in section 3401(a), or section 6050(a), relating to information returns with respect to remuneration of certain crew members defined in section 3121(b)(20), or
(ii) To furnish a statement required under authority of section 6053(b), relating to statements furnished by employers with respect to tips, or section 6050A(b), relating to statements furnished by fishing boat operators with respect to remuneration of certain crew members, within the time prescribed by regulations under those sections for filing such statements (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing),
There shall be paid by the person failing to so file the statement $1 for each such statement not so filed. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures during any calendar year shall not exceed $1,000.
(b)
Returns with respect to payments made in calendar years before 1963 and to certain payments by cooperatives after 1962.
In the case of each failure to file a statement, with respect to a payment to another person, required under authority of—
(1) Section 6041, relating to information returns with respect to certain information at source, in effect with respect to payments made before 1963,
(2) Section 6042(1), relating to information returns with respect to payments of corporate dividends, in effect
with respect to payments made before 1963,
(3) Section 6044, relating to information returns with respect to payments of patronage dividends, in effect with respect to payments made by a cooperative with respect to patronage occurring before the first day of the first taxable year of the cooperative beginning after December 31, 1962, or
(4) Section 6051(d), relating to information returns with respect to payments of wages as defined in section 3401(a), in effect with respect to payments made before 1963,
and the regulations under such section, within the time prescribed for filing such statement (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing), there shall be paid by the person failing to so file such statement $1 for each such statement not so filed. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures during any calendar year shall not exceed $1,000.
(c)
Returns with respect to reporting payments of wages in the form of group-term life insurance provided in a calendar year after December 31, 1963.
In the case of each failure to file a return required by section 6052(a), relating to reporting payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance provided for any employee on his life in a calendar year after December 31, 1963, and the regulations under such section, within the time prescribed for filing such return (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing), there shall be paid by the person failing to so file such return $10 for each such return not so filed. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures under section 6652(a) and this section during any calendar year shall not exceed $25,000.
(d)
Returns with respect to transfer of stock or record title thereto pursuant to options exercised on or after January 1, 1964.
In the case of each failure to file a statement of the transfer of stock or of record title thereto as required by section 6039(a) and the regulations under such section within the time prescribed for filing such statement (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing), there shall be paid by the corporation failing to so file such statement, $10 for each such statement not so filed. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent corporation for all such failures under section 6652(a) and this section during any calendar year shall not exceed $25,000.
(e)
Manner of payment.
The amount imposed under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 6652 and this section on any person shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor.
(f)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The amount imposed by subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 6652 shall not apply with respect to a failure to file a statement within the time prescribed if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or the director of the Internal Revenue Service Center that such failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, containing a declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as a reasonable cause.
(g)
Alcohol and tobacco taxes.
For penalties for failure to file certain information returns with respect to alcohol and tobacco taxes, see, generally, subtitle E of the Code.
(h)
Tips.
For regulations under section 6652(c) in respect of failure to report tips, see § 31.6652-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7001, 34 FR 1006, Jan. 23, 1969; T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11503, June 15, 1971; T.D. 7716, 45 FR 57124, Aug. 27, 1980]
§ 301.6652-2
Failure by exempt organizations and certain nonexempt organizations to file certain returns or to comply with section 6104(d) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
(a)
Exempt organization or trust.
In the case of a failure to file a return required by—
(1) Section 6033, relating to returns by exempt organizations, trusts described in section 4947(a)(1) and nonexempt private foundations,
(2) Section 6034, relating to returns by certain trusts, or
(3) Section 6043(b), relating to returns regarding the liquidation, dissolution,
termination, or substantial contraction of an exempt organization,
within the time and in the manner prescribed for filing such return (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing), unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be paid by the exempt organization or trust failing to file such return $10 for each day during which such failure continues. However, the total amount imposed on any exempt organization or trust under this paragraph for such failure with regard to any one return shall not exceed $5,000.
(b)
Managers.
If an exempt organization or trust fails to file under section 6652(d)(1), the Commissioner may, by written demand, request that such organization or trust file the delinquent return within 90 days after the date of mailing of such demand, or within such additional period as the Commissioner shall determine is reasonable under the circumstances. If such organization or trust does not so file on or before the date specified in such demand, there shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for such failure to file $10 for each day after such date during which such failure continues, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause. However, the total amount imposed under this paragraph on all persons responsible for such failure with regard to any one return shall not exceed $5,000.
(c)
Public inspection of private foundations' annual returns
—(1)
In general.
In the case of a failure to comply with the requirements of section 6104(d), relating to public inspection of private foundations' annual returns, within the time and in the manner prescribed for complying with section 6104(d), unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for failing to comply with section 6104(d) $10 for each day during which such failure continues. However, the total amount imposed under this subparagraph on all persons responsible for any such failure with regard to any one annual return shall not exceed $5,000.
(2)
Amount imposed.
The amount imposed under section 6652(d)(3) is $10 per day for a failure to comply with section 6104(d). For example, assume that an annual return must be filed by private foundation X on or before May 15, 1982, for the calendar year 1981. The foundation without reasonable cause does not comply with section 6104(d) by publishing notice of the availability of the annual return until July 30, 1982. In this case, the person failing to comply with section 6104(d) within the prescribed time is required to pay $760 for complying with section 6104(d) 76 days late.
(3)
Cross reference.
For the penalty for willful failure to comply with section 6104(d), see § 301.6685-1.
(d)
Special rules.
For purposes of section 6652(d) and this section—
(1)
Person.
The term “person” means any officer, director, trustee, employee, member, or other individual whose duty it is to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.
(2)
Liability.
If more than one person (as defined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (d)) is liable for a failure to file or to comply with section 6652(d) (2) or (3), all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to such failure.
(e)
Manner of payment.
The amount imposed under section 6652(d) and this section on any exempt organization, trust, or person (as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor.
(f)
Showing of reasonable cause.
No amount imposed by section 6652(d) shall apply with respect to a failure to file or comply under this section if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or director of the internal revenue service center that such failure was due to reasonable cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement containing a declaration by the appropriate person (as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section), or in his absence, by any officer, director, or trustee of the organization, that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause.
(g)
Group returns.
If a central organization is authorized to file a group return on behalf of two or more of its local organizations for the taxable year
in accordance with paragraph (d) of § 1.6033-2 (Income Tax Regulations), the responsibility for timely filing of such a return is placed upon the central organization for purposes of this section. Consequently, the amount imposed by section 6652(d)(1) for failure to file the group return shall be paid by the central organization and the amount imposed by section 6652(d)(2) for failure to file the group return within the time prescribed by the Commissioner shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for filing the group return.
(h)
Effective date.
This section shall apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
[T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11503, June 15, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8026, 50 FR 20758, May 20, 1985]
§ 301.6652-3
Failure to file information with respect to employee retirement benefit plan.
(a)
Amount imposed
—(1)
Annual registration statement.
The plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of an employee retirement benefit plan defined in § 301.6057-1(a)(3) is liable for the amount imposed by section 6652(e)(1) in each case in which there is a failure to file information relating to the deferred vested retirement benefit of a plan participant, as required by section 6057(a) and § 301.6057-1, at the time and place and in the manner prescribed therefor (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing). The amount imposed by section 6652(e)(1) on the plan administrator is $1 for each participant with respect to whom there is a failure to file the required information, multiplied by the number of days during which the failure continues. However, the total amount imposed by section 6652(e)(1) on the plan administrator with respect to a failure to file on behalf of a plan for a plan year shall not exceed $5,000.
(2)
Notification of change in status.
The plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of an employee retirement benefit plan defined in § 301.6057-1(a)(3) is liable for the amount imposed by section 6652(e)(2) in each case in which there is a failure to file a notification of a change in plan status, as described in section 6057(b) and § 301.6057-2, at the time and place and in the manner prescribed therefor (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing). The amount imposed by section 6652(e)(2) on the plan administrator is $1 for each day during which the failure to so file a notification of a change in plan status continues. However, the total amount imposed by section 6652(e)(2) on the plan administrator with respect to a failure to file a notification of a change in plan status shall not exceed $1,000.
(3)
Annual return of funded plan of deferred compensation.
Under section 6652(f) the amount described in this subparagraph is imposed in each case in which there is a failure to file the annual return described in section 6058(a) on behalf of a plan described in § 301.6058-1(a) at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing). The employer maintaining the plan is liable for the amount imposed with respect to a failure to so file the annual return in each case in which the employer must file the return under § 301.6058-1(a). The plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) is liable for the amount imposed in each case in which the plan administrator must file the return under § 301.6058-1(a). In the case of an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408, the individual described in § 301.6058-1(d)(2) who must file the annual return under § 301.6058-1(d) is liable for the amount imposed with respect to a failure to so file the annual return. The amount imposed is $10 for each day during which the failure to file the annual return on behalf of a plan for a year continues. However, the total amount imposed with respect to a failure to file on behalf of a plan for any year shall not exceed $5,000.
(4)
Actuarial statement in case of mergers.
The plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) is liable for an amount imposed by section 6652(f) in each case in which there is a failure to file the actuarial statement described in section 6058(b) at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing). The amount imposed
by section 6652(f) on the plan administrator is $10 for each day during which the failure to file the statement with respect to a merger, consolidation or transfer of assets or liabilities continues. However, the amount imposed by section 6652(f) on the plan administrator with respect to a failure to file the statement with respect to a merger, consolidation or transfer shall not exceed $5,000.
(5)
Information relating to certain trusts and annuity and bond purchase plans.
Under section 6652(f) the amount described in this subparagraph is imposed in each case in which there is a failure to file a return or statement required by section 6047 at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor in § 1.6047-1 (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing). The amount is imposed upon the trustee of a trust described in section 401(a), custodian of a custodial account or issuer of an annuity contract, as the case may be (see § 1.6047-1(a)(1) (i) and (ii)). The amount imposed by section 6652(f) is $10 for each day during which the failure to file with respect to a payee for a calendar year continues. However, the amount imposed with respect to a failure to file with respect to a payee for a calendar year shall not exceed $5,000.
(b)
Showing of reasonable cause.
(1) No amount imposed by section 6652(e) shall apply with respect to a failure to file information relating to the deferred vested retirement benefit of a plan participant under section 6057(a), or a failure to give notice of a change in plan status under section 6057(b), if it is established to the satisfaction of the director of the internal revenue service center at which the information or notice is required to be filed that the failure was due to reasonable cause.
(2) No amount imposed by section 6652(f) shall apply with respect to a failure to file a return or statement required by section 6058 or 6047, or a failure to provide material items of information called for on such a return or statement, if it is established to the satisfaction of the appropriate district director or the director of the internal revenue service center at which the return or statement is required to be filed that the failure was due to reasonable cause.
(3) An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement setting forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause. The statement must contain a declaration by the appropriate individual that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(c)
Joint liability.
If more than one person is responsible for a failure to comply with sections 6057 (a) or (b) or section 6058 (a) or (b) or section 6047, all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to the failure.
(d)
Manner of payment.
An amount imposed under section 6652 (e) or (f) and this section shall be paid in the same manner as a tax upon the issuance of notice and demand therefor.
(e)
Effective dates
—(1)
Annual registration statement.
With respect to the annual registration statement described in section 6057(a), this section is effective—
(i) In the case of a plan to which only one employer contributes, for plan years beginning after December 31, 1975, with respect to participants who separate from service covered by the plan in plan years beginning after that date, and
(ii) In the case of a plan to which more than one employer contributes, for plan years beginning after December 31, 1977, and with respect to participants who complete two consecutive 1-year breaks in service under the plan in service computation periods beginning after December 31, 1974.
(2)
Notification of change in status.
With respect to the notification of change in plan status required by section 6057(b), this section is effective with respect to a change in status occurring within plan years beginning after December 31, 1975.
(3)
Annual return of employee benefit plan.
With respect to the annual return of employee benefit plan required by section 6058(a), this section is effective for plan years beginning after September 2, 1974.
(4)
Actuarial statement in case of mergers.
With respect to the actuarial statement required by section 6058(b), this section is effective with respect to
mergers, consolidations or transfers of assets or liabilities occurring after September 2, 1974.
(5)
Information relating to certain trusts and annuity and bond purchase plans.
With respect to reports or statements required to be filed by section 6047 and the regulations thereunder, this section is effective with respect to calendar years ending after September 2, 1974.
[T.D. 7551, 43 FR 29293, July 7, 1978, and T.D. 7561, 43 FR 38006, Aug. 25, 1978; 44 FR 24285, Apr. 25, 1979]
§ 301.6653-1
Failure to pay tax.
(a)
Negligence or intentional disregard of rules and regulations with respect to income or gift taxes.
If any part of any underpayment, as defined in section 6653(c)(1) and paragraph (c)(1) of this section, of any income tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code, or gift tax imposed by chapter 12, subtitle B, of the Code, is due to negligence or intentional disregard of rules and regulations, but without intent to defraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 5 percent of the underpayment.
(b)
Fraud.
(1) If any part of any underpayment of tax, as defined in section 6653(c) and paragraph (c) of this section, required to be shown on a return is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50 percent of the underpayment.
(2) If a 50 percent addition to the tax for fraud is assessed under section 6653(b) with respect to an underpayment—
(i) The addition to the tax under section 6651, relating to failure to file a tax return, will not be assessed with respect to the same underpayment, and
(ii) In the case of the income taxes imposed by subtitle A and the gift tax imposed by chapter 12 of subtitle B, the 5 percent addition to the tax under section 6653(a), relating to negligence and intentional disregard of rules and regulations, will not be assessed with respect to the same underpayment.
(c)
Definition of underpayment
—(1)
Income, estate, gift, and chapter 41, 42, 43, and 44 taxes.
In the case of income, estate, gift, and chapter 41, 42, 43, and 44 taxes, an underpayment for purposes of section 6653 and this section is—
(i) The total amount of all deficiencies as defined in section 6211, if a return was filed on or before the last date (determined with regard to any extension of time) prescribed for filing such return, or
(ii) The amount of the tax imposed by subtitle A or B, or chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44, as the case may be, if a return was not filed on or before the last date (determined with regard to any extension of time) prescribed for filing such return.
However, for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, any amount of additional tax shown on the amended return, so called, filed after the due date of the return is a deficiency.
(2)
Other taxes.
In the case of any tax other than an income, estate, gift or chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax, an underpayment for purposes of section 6653 and this section is the amount by which the tax imposed exceeds—
(i) In the case of any tax with respect to which the taxpayer is required to file a return, the sum of (
a
) the amount shown as tax by the taxpayer upon his return filed in respect of such tax, but only if the return is filed on or before the last date (determined with regard to any extension of time) prescribed for filing such return, plus (
b
) any amount not shown on a return filed by the taxpayer which is paid in respect of such tax prior to the date prescribed for filing the return. The “amount shown as tax by the taxpayer upon his return” for the purposes of this subparagraph shall be determined without regard to any credit for an overpayment for any prior tax return period, and without regard to any adjustment made under section 6205(a), or section 6413(a), relating to special rules applicable to certain employment taxes.
(ii) In the case of any tax payable by stamp, the amount paid (on or before the date prescribed for payment) in respect of such tax.
The amounts specified in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph shall be reduced, for purposes of determining the amount of the underpayment, by the amount of any rebates made. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “rebates” means so much of an abatement, credit, refund, or other repayment as was made on the ground
that the tax imposed was less than the excess of the amount specified in subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph, whichever is applicable, over any rebates previously made.
(d)
No delinquency penalty if fraud assessed.
See paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(e)
Failure to pay stamp tax.
Any person (as defined in section 6671(b)) who willfully fails to pay any tax payable by stamp, coupons, tickets, books or other devices or methods prescribed by the Code or regulations promulgated thereunder, or willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such tax or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty of 50 percent of the total amount of the underpayment of the tax.
(f)
Joint returns.
No person filing a joint return shall be held liable for a fraud penalty except for his own personal fraudulent conduct. Thus, for the fraud penalty to apply to a taxpayer who files a joint return some part of the underpayment in such return must be due to the fraud of such taxpayer. A taxpayer shall not be subject to the fraud penalty solely by reason of the fraud of a spouse and his filing of a joint return with such spouse.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7320, 39 FR 28279, Aug. 6, 1974; 39 FR 29353, Aug. 15, 1974; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6654-1
Failure by individual to pay estimated income tax.
For regulations under section 6654, see §§ 1.6654-1 to 1.6654-5, inclusive, of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
[T.D. 7282, 38 FR 19029, July 19, 1973]
§ 301.6655-1
Failure by corporation to pay estimated income tax.
(a) For regulations under section 6655, see §§ 1.6655-1 through 1.6655-7 of this chapter.
(b)
Effective/applicability date:
This section applies to taxable years beginning after September 6, 2007.
[T.D. 9347, 72 FR 44366, Aug. 7, 2007]
§ 301.6656-1
Abatement of penalty.
(a)
Exception for first time depositors of employment taxes
—(1)
Waiver.
The Secretary will generally waive the penalty imposed by section 6656(a) on a person's failure to deposit any employment tax under subtitle C of the Internal Revenue Code if—
(i) The failure is inadvertent;
(ii) The person meets the requirements referred to in section 7430(c)(4)(A)(ii) (relating to the net worth requirements applicable for awards of attorney's fees);
(iii) The failure occurs during the first quarter that the person is required to deposit any employment tax; and
(iv) The return of the tax is filed on or before the due date.
(2)
Inadvertent failure.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the Secretary will determine if a failure to deposit is inadvertent based on all the facts and circumstances.
(b)
Deposit sent to Secretary.
The Secretary may abate the penalty imposed by section 6656(a) if the first time a taxpayer is required to make a deposit, the amount required to be deposited is inadvertently sent to the Secretary rather than deposited by electronic funds transfer.
(c)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to deposits and payments made after December 31, 2010.
[T.D. 8725, 62 FR 39118, July 22, 1997. Redesignated by T.D. 8947, 66 FR 32542, June 15, 2001; T.D. 9507, 75 FR 75904, Dec. 7, 2010]
§ 301.6657-1
Bad checks.
(a)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if a check or money order is tendered in the payment of any amount receivable under the Code, and such check or money order is not paid upon presentment, a penalty of one percent of the amount of the check or money order, in addition to any other penalties provided by law shall be paid by the person who tendered such check or money order. If, however, the amount of the check or money order is less than $500, the penalty shall be $5 or the amount of the check or money order, whichever amount is the lesser. Such penalty shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor.
(b)
Reasonable cause.
If payment is refused upon presentment of any check
or money order and the person who tendered such check or money order establishes to the satisfaction of the district director that it was tendered in good faith with reasonable cause to believe that it would be duly paid, the penalty set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply.
§ 301.6658-1
Addition to tax in case of jeopardy.
Upon a finding by the district director that any taxpayer violated, or attempted to violate, section 6851 (relating to termination of taxable year) there shall, in addition to all other penalties, be added as part of the tax 25 percent of the total amount of the tax or deficiency in the tax.
§ 301.6659-1
Applicable rules.
(a)
Additions treated as tax.
Except as otherwise provided in the Code, any reference in the Code to “tax” shall be deemed also to be a reference to any addition to the tax, additional amount, or penalty imposed by chapter 68 of the Code with respect to such tax. Such additions to the tax, additional amounts, and penalties shall become payable upon notice and demand therefor and shall be assessed, collected, and paid in the same manner as taxes.
(b)
Additions to tax for failure to file return or pay tax.
Any addition under section 6651 or section 6653 to a tax shall be considered a part of such tax for the purpose of the assessment and collection of such tax. For applicability of deficiency procedures to additions to the tax, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Deficiency procedures
—(1)
Addition to the tax for failure to file tax return.
(i) Subchapter B, chapter 63, of the Code (deficiency procedures) applies to the additions to the income estate, gift, and chapter 41, 42, 43, and 44 taxes imposed by section 6651 for failure to file a tax return to the same extent that it applies to such taxes. Accordingly, if there is a deficiency (as defined in section 6211) in the tax (apart from the addition to the tax) where a return has not been timely filed, deficiency procedures apply to the addition to the tax under section 6651. If there is no deficiency in the tax where a return has not been timely filed, the addition to the tax under section 6651 may be assessed and collected without deficiency procedures.
(ii) The provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A filed his income tax return for the calendar year 1955 on May 15, 1956, not having been granted an extension of time for such filing. His failure to file on time was not due to reasonable cause. The return showed a liability of $1,000 and it was determined that A is liable under section 6651 for an addition to such tax of $50 (5 percent a month for 1 month). The provisions of subchapter B of chapter 63 (deficiency procedures) do not apply to the assessment and collection of the addition to the tax since such provisions are not applicable to the tax with respect to which such addition was asserted, there being no statutory deficiency for purposes of section 6211.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example 1 and assume further that a deficiency of $500 in tax and a further $25 addition to the tax under section 6651 is asserted against A for the calendar year 1955. Thus, the total addition to the tax under section 6651 is $75. Since the provisions of subchapter B of chapter 63 are applicable to the $500 deficiency, they likewise apply to the $25 addition to the tax asserted with respect to such deficiency (but not to the $50 addition to the tax under example 1).
(2)
Additions to the tax for negligence or fraud.
Subchapter B of chapter 63 (deficiency procedures) applies to all additions to the income, estate, gift, and chapter 41, 42, 43, and 44 taxes imposed by section 6653 (a) and (b) for negligence and fraud.
(3)
Additions to tax for failure to pay estimated income taxes
—(i)
Return filed by taxpayer.
The addition to the tax for underpayment of estimated income tax imposed by section 6654 (relating to failure by individuals to pay estimated income tax) or section 6655 (relating to failure by corporations to pay estimated income tax) is determined by reference to the tax shown on the return if a return is filed. Therefore, such addition may be assessed and collected without regard to the provisions of subchapter B of chapter 63 (deficiency procedures) if a return is filed since such provisions are not applicable to the assessment of the tax shown on the return. Further, since the additions to the tax imposed by section 6654 or 6655 are determined solely by reference to
the amount of tax shown on the return if a return is filed, the assertion of a deficiency with respect to any tax not shown on such return will not make the provisions of subchapter B of chapter 63 (deficiency procedures) apply to the assessment and collection of any additions to the tax under section 6654 or 6655.
(ii)
No return filed by taxpayer.
If the taxpayer has not filed a return and his entire income tax liability is asserted as a deficiency to which the provisions of subchapter B of chapter 63 apply, such provisions likewise will apply to any addition to such tax imposed by section 6654 or 6655.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44252, Oct. 7, 1982]

# Assessable Penalties
§ 301.6671-1
Rules for application of assessable penalties.
(a)
Penalty assessed as tax.
The penalties and liabilities provided by subchapter B, chapter 68, of the Code (sections 6671 to 6675, inclusive) shall be paid upon notice and demand by the district director or the director of the regional service center and shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as taxes. Except as otherwise provided, any reference in the Code to “tax” imposed thereunder shall also be deemed to refer to the penalties and liabilities provided by subchapter B of chapter 68.
(b)
Person defined.
For purposes of subchapter B of chapter 68, the term “person” includes an officer or employee of a corporation, or a member or employee of a partnership, who as such officer, employee, or member is under a duty to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.
§ 301.6672-1
Failure to collect and pay over tax, or attempt to evade or defeat tax.
Any person required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay over any tax imposed by the Code who willfully fails to collect such tax, or truthfully account for and pay over such tax, or willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such tax or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties, be liable to a penalty equal to the total amount of the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for and paid over. The penalty imposed by section 6672 applies only to the collection, accounting for, or payment over of taxes imposed on a person other than the person who is required to collect, account for, and pay over such taxes. No penalty under section 6653, relating to failure to pay tax, shall be imposed for any offense to which this section is applicable. For further guidance regarding the determination of the proper address for mailing the notice required under section 6672(b)(1), see § 301.6212-2.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2821, Jan. 12, 2001]
§ 301.6673-1
Damages assessable for instituting proceedings before the Tax Court merely for delay.
Any damages awarded to the United States by the Tax Court under section 6673 against a taxpayer for instituting proceedings before the Tax Court merely for delay shall be assessed at the same time at the deficiency and shall be paid upon notice and demand from the district director or the director of the regional service center and shall be collected as a part of the tax.
§ 301.6674-1
Fraudulent statement or failure to furnish statement to employee.
For regulations under section 6674, see § 31.6674-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
§ 301.6678-1
Failure to furnish statements to payees.
(a)
In general.
In the case of each failure to furnish a statement required—
(1) Under section 6042(c) and § 1.6042-4 to a person with respect to whom a return has been made under section 6042(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to payment of dividends aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year,
(2) Under section 6044(e) and § 1.6044-5 to a person with respect to whom a return has been made under section 6044(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to certain payments by cooperatives aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year,
(3) Under section 6049(c) and § 1.6049-3 to a person with respect to whom a return has been made under section 6049(a)(1), relating to information returns with respect to payments of interest aggregating $10 or more in a calendar year,
(4) Under section 6039(b) and § 1.6039-2 to a person with respect to whom a return has been made under section 6039(a), relating to information returns with respect to certain stock option transactions occurring in a calendar year, or
(5) Under section 6052(b) and § 1.6052-2 to a person with respect to whom a return has been made under section 6052(a), relating to information returns with respect to payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance provided for an employee on his life, within the time prescribed for furnishing such statement (determined with regard to any extension of time for furnishing), there shall be paid by the person failing to so furnish the statement $10 for each such statement not so furnished. However, the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures during a calendar year shall not exceed $25,000.
(b)
Manner of payment.
The penalty imposed under section 6678 and this section on any person shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor.
(c)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The penalty imposed by section 6678 shall not apply with respect to a failure to furnish a statement within the time prescribed if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or the director of the regional service center that such failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, containing a declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as a reasonable cause.
§ 301.6679-1
Failure to file returns, etc. with respect to foreign corporations or foreign partnerships for taxable years beginning after September 3, 1982.
(a)
Civil penalty
—(1)
In general.
In addition to any criminal penalty provided by law, each U.S. citizen, resident, or person filing a separate or joint information return or on whose behalf a return is filed, pursuant to sections 6035, 6046, or 6046A, and the regulations thereunder, who fails to file such a return within the time provided, or who files a return which does not show the required information, shall pay a penalty of $1,000, unless such failure is shown to be due to reasonable cause.
(2)
Joint return.
The penalty imposed by section 6679 and this section shall apply to each U.S. citizen, resident, or person filing a joint return pursuant to the provisions of section 6035, 6046, or 6046A, which does not show the required information.
(3)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The district director, the director of the Internal Revenue service center, and the director of International Operations are authorized to make the determination that such failure was due to a reasonable cause and that, accordingly, the penalty imposed by section 6679 shall not apply. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, containing a declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as a reasonable cause. If the taxpayer exercises ordinary business care and prudence and is nevertheless unable to furnish any item of information required under section 6035, 6046, or 6046A and the regulations thereunder, such failure shall be considered due to a reasonable cause. In determining the extent of a taxpayer's ability to obtain information, the percentage of stock owned by such taxpayer and the nature of the other interests in the foreign corporation will be considered.
(b)
Deficiency procedures not to apply.
The penalty imposed by section 6679 may be assessed and collected without regard to the deficiency procedures provided by subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Code.
[32 FR 15421, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7288, 38 FR 27215, Oct. 1, 1973; T.D. 7542, 43 FR 18552, May 1, 1978; T.D. 8028, 50 FR 23409, June 4, 1985]
§ 301.6682-1
False information with respect to withholding allowances based on itemized deductions.
For regulations under section 6682, see § 31.6682-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
[T.D. 7109, 35 FR 16544, Oct. 23, 1970]
§ 301.6684-1
Assessable penalties with respect to liability for tax under chapter 42.
(a)
In general.
If any person (as defined in section 7701(a)(1)) becomes liable for tax under any section of chapter 42 (other than section 4940 or 4948(a)), relating to private foundations, by reason of any act or failure to act which is not due to reasonable cause and either—
(1) Such person has theretofore (at any time) been liable for tax under any section of such chapter (other than section 4940 or 4948(a)), or
(2) Such act or failure to act is both willful and flagrant,
then such person shall be liable for a penalty equal to the amount of such tax.
(b)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The penalty imposed by section 6684 shall not apply to any person with respect to a violation of any section of chapter 42 if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or director of the internal revenue service center that such violation was due to reasonable cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, containing a declaration by such person that it is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause.
(c)
Willful and flagrant.
For purposes of this section, the term “willful and flagrant” has the same meaning as such term possesses in section 507(a)(2)(A) and the regulations thereunder.
(d)
Effective date.
This section shall take effect on January 1, 1970.
[T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11504, June 15, 1971]
§ 301.6685-1
Assessable penalties with respect to private foundations' failure to comply with section 6104(d).
(a)
In general.
In addition to the penalty imposed by section 7207, relating to fraudulent returns, statements, or other documents, any person (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) who is required to comply with the requirements of section 6104(d), relating to public inspection of private foundations' annual returns, and who fails so to comply, if such failure is willful, shall pay a penalty of $1,000 with respect to each such return with respect to which there is a failure so to comply.
(b)
Person.
For purposes of this section, the term “person” means any officer, director, trustee, employee, member, or other individual whose duty it is to perform the act in respect of which the failure occurs.
(c)
Effective date.
This section shall take effect on January 1, 1970.
(d)
Cross reference.
For the amount imposed for failure to comply with section 6104(d), see paragraph (c) of § 301.6652-2.
[T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11505, June 15, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8026, 50 FR 20758, May 20, 1985]
§ 301.6686-1
Failure of DISC to file returns.
(a)
In general.
In addition to the penalty imposed by section 7203 (relating to willful failure to file a return, supply information, or pay tax) any person who is required to supply informatin or to file a return under section 6011(c) (relating to records and returns of DISC's) and who fails to supply such information of file such return at the time prescribed in sections 6072(b) and 1.6072-2(e) shall pay a penalty of $100 for each failure to supply information (provided that the total amount imposed on the delinquent person for all such failures during a calendar year shall not exceed $25,000) and a penalty of $1,000 with respect to each failure to file a return, unless it is shown that such failure is due to a reasonable cause.
(b)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The penalty imposed by section 6686 shall not apply to any person with respect to a failure to supply information, or to file a return, under section 6011(c) if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or director of the Internal Revenue Service Center that such failure was due to reasonable
cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, which contains a declaration by such person that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury, and sets forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause.
[T.D. 7533, 43 FR 6604, Feb. 15, 1978]
§ 301.6688-1
Assessable penalties with respect to information required to be furnished with respect to possessions.
(a)
In general.
Each individual described in section 7654(a) who is subject to an information reporting requirement promulgated under the authority of section 937(c) or 7654 and who fails to fully satisfy such requirement within the time prescribed for reporting such information must, in addition to any criminal penalty provided by law, pay a penalty of $1000 for each such failure. Information reporting requirements promulgated under the authority of sections 937(c) and 7654(e) include the requirement for an individual to file Form 8898, “Statement for Individuals who Begin or End Bona Fide Residence in a U.S. Possession,” under § 1.937-1(h) of this chapter, to report that he or she became or ceased to be a bona fide resident of a possession.
(b)
Manner of payment.
The penalty set forth in paragraph (a) of this section must be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand for the penalty.
(c)
Reasonable cause
—(1) The penalty set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply if it is established to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner
that the failure to file the information return or furnish the information within the prescribed time was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. An individual who wishes to avoid the penalty must make an affirmative showing of all facts alleged as a reasonable cause for failure to file the information return on time, or furnish the information on time, in the form of a written statement containing a declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury. This statement must be filed with Internal Revenue Service Center where Form 8898 must be filed. In determining whether there was reasonable cause for failure to furnish the required information, account will be taken of the fact that the individual was unable to furnish the required information in spite of the exercise of ordinary business care and prudence in his effort to furnish the information. An individual will be considered to have exercised ordinary business care and prudence in his effort to furnish the required information if he made reasonable efforts to furnish the information but was unable to do so because of a lack of sufficient facts on which to make a proper determination.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to taxable years ending after April 9, 2008.
[T.D. 9391, 73 FR 19376, Apr. 9, 2008; 73 FR 27728, May 14, 2008]
§ 301.6689-1
Failure to file notice of redetermination of foreign income taxes.
(a)
Application of civil penalty.
If a foreign tax redetermination occurs, and the taxpayer failed to notify the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on or before the date and in the manner prescribed in § 1.905-4 of this chapter, or as required under section 404A(g)(2), for giving notice of a foreign tax redetermination, then, unless paragraph (d) of this section applies, there is added to the deficiency (or the imputed underpayment as determined under section 6225) attributable to such redetermination an amount determined under paragraph (b) of this section. Subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to deficiency proceedings) does not apply with respect to the assessment of the amount of the penalty.
(b)
Amount of the penalty.
The amount of the penalty shall be equal to—
(1) Five percent of the deficiency (or imputed underpayment) if the failure is for not more than one month; plus
(2) An additional five percent of the deficiency (or imputed underpayment) for each month (or fraction thereof) during which the failure continues, but not to exceed in the aggregate twenty-five percent of the deficiency (or imputed underpayment).
(c)
Foreign tax redetermination defined.
For purposes of this section, a foreign tax redetermination is any redetermination for which a notice is required
under sections 905(c) or 404A(g)(2). See §§ 1.905-3 through 1.905-5 of this chapter for rules relating to the notice requirement under section 905(c).
(d)
Reasonable cause.
The penalty set forth in this section shall not apply if it is established to the satisfaction of the IRS that the failure to file the notification within the prescribed time was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement that sets forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause for the failure to file the notification on time and that contains a declaration by the taxpayer that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury. This statement must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center in which the notification was required to be filed. The taxpayer must file this statement with the notice required under section 905(c) or 404A(g)(2). If the taxpayer exercised ordinary business care and prudence and was nevertheless unable to file the notification within the prescribed time, then the delay will be considered to be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
(e)
Applicability date.
This section applies to foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years ending on or after December 16, 2019, and to foreign tax redeterminations of foreign corporations occurring in taxable years that end with or within a taxable year of a United States shareholder ending on or after December 16, 2019.
[T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72074, Nov. 12, 2020]
§ 301.6690-1
Penalty for fraudulent statement or failure to furnish statement to plan participant.
(a)
Penalty.
Any plan administrator required by section 6057(e) and § 301.6057-1(e) to furnish a statement of deferred vested retirement benefit to a plan participant is subject to a penalty of $50 in each case in which the administrator (1) willfully fails to furnish the statement to the participant in the manner, at the time, and showing the information required by section 6057(e) and § 301.6057-1(e), or (2) willfully furnishes a false or fraudulent statement to the participant. The penalty shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as the tax imposed on employers under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act.
(b)
Effective date.
This section shall take effect on September 2, 1974.
[T.D. 7561, 43 FR 38007, Aug. 25, 1978]
§ 301.6692-1
Failure to file actuarial report.
(a)
Penalty.
In each case in which the plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of a defined benefit plan to which the minimum funding standards of section 412 apply fails to file the actuarial report described in section 6059 and § 301.6059-1 within the time prescribed, the plan administrator shall pay a penalty of $1,000. A failure to provide a material item of information called for in the actuarial report is considered a failure to file the report. For this purpose, the signature of an enrolled actuary (see § 301.6059-1(d)) is considered a material item of information.
Further, for any report filed for a plan year ending after January 25, 1982, if the actuary seeks to materially qualify a statement required by § 301.6059-1(c) (4) or (5) there is a failure to provide a material item of information called for in the report. For rules relating to statements not considered as materially qualifying the required statements, see § 301.6059-1(d).
(b)
Failure to make actuarial valuation.
Section 412(c)(9) and the regulations thereunder prescribe the time for making an actuarial valuation of a defined benefit plan. For purposes of this section, the failure to base information called for in the actuarial report upon an actuarial valuation of the plan which is made within the time prescribed by section 412(c)(9) and the regulations thereunder is considered a failure to file the actuarial report.
(c)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The penalty imposed by this section does not apply if it is established to the satisfaction of the appropriate district director or the director of the Internal Revenue Service Center at which the actuarial report is required to be filed that the failure to file the report was due to reasonable cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement setting forth all the facts alleged
as reasonable cause. The statement must contain a declaration by the appropriate individual that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(d)
Joint liability.
If more than one person is responsible as a plan administrator for a failure to file the actuarial report, all such persons are jointly and severally liable with respect to the failure.
(e)
Manner of payment.
The penalty imposed for the failure to file an actuarial report shall be paid in the same manner as a tax upon the issuance of notice and demand therefor.
(f)
Effective dates.
In the case of a plan in existence on January 1, 1974, this section is effective beginning with the first plan year beginning after December 31, 1975, for which the minimum funding standards of section 412 apply to the plan. In the case of a plan not in existence on January 1, 1974, this section is effective beginning with the first plan year beginning after September 2, 1974, for which the minimum funding standards apply to the plan.
(Secs. 6059 and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (88 Stat. 947, 68A Stat. 917; 26 U.S.C. 6059, 7805))
[T.D. 7798, 46 FR 57484, Nov. 24, 1981]
§ 301.6693-1
Penalty for failure to provide reports and documents concerning individual retirement accounts or annuities.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Annual reports, etc.
The trustee of an individual retirement account described in section 408(a), or the issuer of an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b), who fails to furnish or file a report or any other document required under section 408(i) and § 1.408-5 within the time and in the manner prescribed for furnishing or filing such item shall pay a penalty of $10 for each failure unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause.
(2)
Disclosure statements.
The trustee of an individual retirement account described in section 408(a), or the issuer of an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b), who fails to furnish or file a disclosure statement, a governing instrument, an amendment to either, or any other document required under section 408(i) and § 1.408-6, within the time and in the manner prescribed for furnishing or filing such item, shall pay a penalty of $10 for each failure unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause.
(b)
Showing of reasonable cause.
The penalty imposed by section 6693 shall not apply to any person with respect to a failure to furnish or file a report, statement, or other document within the time and in the manner prescribed if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director that such failure was due to reasonable cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement, containing a declaration by such person that it is made under the penalties of perjury and setting forth all the facts alleged to constitute reasonable cause.
(c)
Deficiency procedures not to apply.
The penalty imposed by section 6693 may be assessed and collected without regard to the deficiency procedures provided by subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Code.
(d)
Other penalties.
The penalties of section 6693 and this section are in lieu of any penalty imposed by section 6652(f) for violation of section 6047(d), with respect to any failure to furnish or file described in this section.
(e)
Effective date.
This section shall take effect on January 1, 1975.
[T.D. 7730, 45 FR 72652, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 301.6707-1
Failure to furnish information regarding reportable transactions.
(a)(1)
In general.
A material advisor who is required to file a return under section 6111(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) with respect to any reportable transaction who fails to file a timely return in accordance with § 301.6111-3(e) or who files a return with false or incomplete information with respect to the reportable transaction will be subject to a penalty. A material advisor who fails to file a timely return or who files a false or incomplete return with respect to more than one reportable transaction will be subject to a separate section 6707 penalty for each transaction.
(i)
Reportable transactions.
The amount of the penalty for failing to timely file a return under section
6111(a), or filing the return with false or incomplete information with respect to any reportable transaction other than a listed transaction is $50,000.
(ii)
Listed transactions.
(A)
In general.
The amount of the penalty for failing to timely file a return under section 6111(a), or filing the return with false or incomplete information with respect to a listed transaction is the greater of $200,000 or 50 percent of the gross income derived by the material advisor with respect to aid, assistance, or advice that is provided with respect to the listed transaction before the date the return is filed under section 6111.
(B)
Intentional action or failure.
If the failure or action subject to the penalty is with respect to a listed transaction and is intentional, the penalty is the greater of $200,000 or 75 percent of the gross income derived by the material advisor with respect to aid, assistance, or advice that is provided with respect to the listed transaction before the date the return is filed under section 6111.
(C)
Transaction that is both a listed transaction and reportable transaction other than a listed transaction.
In the case of a penalty imposed under section 6707 with respect to a transaction that is both a listed transaction and a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction, the penalty under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), and not the penalty under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, will apply.
(2)
Gross income derived by the material advisor.
For purposes of calculating the amount of the penalty with respect to a listed transaction, the gross income derived by the material advisor will be determined in accordance with § 301.6111-3(b)(3)(ii) of this chapter. If a person is a material advisor with regard to more than one type of listed transaction, the gross income derived from each type of listed transaction will be considered separately and will not be aggregated to determine the amount of any section 6707 penalty for failing to make a proper return under section 6111(a). Further, only gross income derived from listed transactions for which the advisor is a material advisor under section 6111 is taken into account for purposes of computing the penalty.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Derive.
The term “derive” is defined in § 301.6111-3(c)(3).
(2)
False information.
For purposes of this section, the term “false information” means information provided on a Form 8918, “Material Advisor Disclosure Statement” (or successor form), filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that is untrue or incorrect when the Form 8918 (or successor form) was filed. False information does not include information provided on a Form 8918 (or successor form) filed with the IRS that is immaterial or that is untrue or incorrect due to a mistake or accident after the exercise of reasonable care.
(3)
Incomplete information.
For purposes of this section, the term “incomplete information” means a Form 8918 (or successor form) filed with the IRS that does not provide the information required under § 301.6111-3(d). A Form 8918 (or successor form) filed with the IRS will not be considered incomplete when the information not provided on the form is immaterial or was not provided due to mistake or accident after the exercise of reasonable care. Whether information is immaterial will be determined based upon the facts and circumstances surrounding each failure to file or filing of an incomplete return. A material advisor who completes the form to the best of the material advisor's ability and knowledge after the exercise of reasonable effort to obtain the information will not be considered to have filed incomplete information within the meaning of this section. A Form 8918 (or successor form) will be considered to provide incomplete information when it omits information required to be provided under § 301.6111-3(d) or contains a statement that the omitted information will be provided upon request.
(4)
Intentional.
For purposes of this section, the failure to timely file a return or the submission of a return with false or incomplete information is intentional if—
(i) The material advisor knew of the obligation to file a return and knowingly did not timely file a return with the IRS; or
(ii) The material advisor filed a return knowing that it was false or incomplete.
(5)
Listed transaction.
The term “listed transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(2) of this chapter.
(6)
Material Advisor.
The term “material advisor” is defined in section 6111(b)(1) of the Code and § 301.6111-3(b).
(7)
Reportable transaction.
The term “reportable transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(1) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(1) of this chapter.
(c)
Assessment of penalty
—(1)
Intentional failure determined based on all the facts and circumstances.
Whether a material advisor intentionally failed to timely file a return or intentionally filed a false or incomplete return will be determined based upon all the facts and circumstances surrounding the non-filing or filing of a false and/or incomplete return. The higher penalty under the flush language of section 6707(b)(2) will not apply to any material advisor whose failure to timely file or whose furnishing of false or incomplete information was unintentional. The failure to timely file a return, or filing a return with false or incomplete information, will be considered unintentional if the material advisor subsequently files a true and complete return prior to the earlier of the date that any taxpayer files a Form 8886, “Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement” (or successor form) identifying the material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction in question, or the date the IRS contacts the material advisor concerning the reportable transaction.
(2)
Individual liability in the case of more than one material advisor.
If there is more than one material advisor who is responsible for filing a return under section 6111 with respect to the same reportable transaction, a separate penalty under section 6707 may be assessed against each material advisor who fails to timely file or files a return with false or incomplete information. The determination of whether the failure or action subject to the penalty is intentional will be made individually for each material advisor.
(3)
Designation agreements.
A material advisor who is required to file a return under section 6111 and who is a party to a designation agreement within the meaning of § 301.6111-3(f) is subject to a penalty under section 6707 if the designated material advisor fails to file a return timely or files a return with false or incomplete information. In the case of a listed transaction, if the designated material advisor fails to file a return timely, or files a return with false or incomplete information, the nondesignated material advisor who is a party to the designation agreement will not be treated as intentionally failing to file the return, or intentionally filing a return with false or incomplete information, unless the nondesignated material advisor knew or should have known that the designated material advisor would fail to file a true and complete return timely.
(d)
Examples.
The rules of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Advisor A becomes a material advisor as defined under section 6111(b)(1) and § 301.6111-3(b) in the fourth quarter of 2014 with respect to a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction, and Advisor B also becomes a material advisor in the same quarter with respect to the same reportable transaction. Advisors A and B fail to timely file the Form 8918 with respect to the reportable transaction. Under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the penalty for failure by a material advisor to timely disclose a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction is $50,000. Because the section 6707 penalty applies to each material advisor independently under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Advisors A and B each are subject to a section 6707 penalty of $50,000.

# Example 2.
Same as
Example 1,
except that Advisor B timely files the Form 8918. Advisors A and B did not enter into a designation agreement. Accordingly, paragraph (c)(3) of this section does not apply and only Advisor A is subject to a $50,000 section 6707 penalty.

# Example 3.
Advisor C becomes a material advisor to Client X on January 5, 2015, with respect to a listed transaction. Advisor C derives $400,000 in gross income from his advice to Client X because he expects to receive that amount from Client X, even though he has not yet received that amount. On January 5, 2016, Advisor C becomes a material advisor to Client Y with respect to the same type of listed transaction. Advisor C derives $100,000 in gross income from his advice to Client Y because he expects to receive that amount from Client Y, even though he has not yet received that amount. At no time did Advisor C file a Form 8918 to disclose the listed transaction. For purposes of this example, assume that Advisor C's failure to file a Form 8918 was unintentional. Therefore,
under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Advisor C is subject to a section 6707 penalty based on the gross income derived from Client X and Client Y. Accordingly, Advisor C is subject to a penalty of $250,000 (50 percent of $500,000, the gross income derived from Clients X and Y).

# Example 4.
Same as
Example 3,
except that the gross income Advisor C expects to receive from his advice to Client Y (a C corporation) is $20,000. Because the material advisor fee threshold is not satisfied with respect to Client Y, Advisor C is not a material advisor to Client Y with respect to the listed transaction. Advisor C is, however, a material advisor with respect to Client X with respect to the same listed transaction. Therefore, Advisor C is subject to a section 6707 penalty with respect to the failure to timely file a Form 8918 disclosing the listed transaction. Although Advisor C provided advice with respect to two transactions that are the same type of listed transaction, Advisor C was only a material advisor with respect to advice provided to Client X. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(2) of this section Advisor C is subject to a section 6707 penalty based only on the gross income derived from Client X. Accordingly, Advisor C is subject to a penalty of $200,000 (50 percent of $400,000, the gross income derived from Client X).

# Example 5.
Same as
Example 3,
except that Advisor C files a Form 8918 disclosing the listed transaction on November 16, 2015. Because Advisor C becomes a material advisor to Client X on January 5, 2015, the Form 8918 is required to be filed on or before April 30, 2015 (the last day of the month that follows the end of the calendar quarter in which the advisor became a material advisor with regard to the reportable transaction). See § 301.6111-3(e). Therefore, Advisor C did not timely file the Form 8918. Advisor C is subject to a $200,000 penalty under section 6707 for his unintentional failure because, as of the date he filed the Form 8918, the gross income Advisor C had received or expected to receive with respect to advice relating to a listed transaction that was not disclosed only included $400,000 of gross income for advice to Client X. By the time that Advisor C provides advice to Client Y on January 5, 2016, Advisor C has disclosed the listed transaction.

# Example 6.
Same as
Example 3,
except that Advisor C files the Form 8918 on February 16, 2016, disclosing the listed transaction. Because Advisor C first becomes a material advisor with respect to the listed transaction on January 5, 2015, the Form 8918 is required to be filed on or before April 30, 2015 regardless of the fact that Advisor C is also a material advisor to a second client, Client Y, with respect to the same listed transaction. This is because under the facts of
Example 3,
Advisor C “becomes” a material advisor on January 5, 2015. The date on which a material advisor “becomes” a material advisor is determinative of the due date for the Form 8918 under § 301.6111-3(e). Therefore, when Advisor C files the Form 8918 on February 16, 2016, the form is not timely filed under section 6111. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Advisor C is subject to a penalty under section 6707 of $250,000 (50 percent of $500,000) because, as of the date that the Form 8918 was filed, the gross income that Advisor C received or expected to receive as a material advisor with respect to a listed transaction that was not disclosed included gross income for advice to both Client X ($400,000) and Client Y ($100,000).

# Example 7.
Advisor D becomes a material advisor as defined under section 6111(b)(1) and § 301.6111-3(b) in the first quarter of 2016 with respect to a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction. Advisor D does not file a Form 8918 by April 30, 2016. The transaction is then identified as a listed transaction in published guidance on July 7, 2016. Advisor D knew that he had a new obligation to file a Form 8918 by October 31, 2016, and intentionally fails to file the Form 8918. Advisor D is subject to only one penalty, in the amount of the greater of $200,000, or 75 percent of the gross income he derived from the transaction, for intentionally failing to disclose the listed transaction in accordance with § 301.6111-3(d)(1) and (e).

# Example 8.
Same as
Example 7,
except that Advisor D filed a Form 8918 disclosing the listed transaction on October 15, 2016. As a result of that disclosure, Advisor D is not subject to the section 6707 penalty amount described in § 301.6707-1(a)(1)(ii). However, because Advisor D did not timely file a Form 8918 by April 30, 2016, the due date for the Form 8918 with respect to the reportable transaction for which Advisor D became a material advisor in the first quarter of 2016, Advisor D is subject to a section 6707 penalty of $50,000 as described in § 301.6707-1(a)(1)(i). The disclosure of the listed transaction does not correct Advisor D's initial failure to disclose the reportable transaction by April 30, 2016.
(e)
Rescission authority
—(1)
In general.
The Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may rescind the section 6707 penalty if—
(i) The violation relates to a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction; and
(ii) Rescinding the penalty would promote compliance with the requirements of the Code and effective tax administration.
(2)
Requesting rescission.
The Secretary may prescribe the procedures
for a material advisor to request rescission of a section 6707 penalty by guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
(3)
Factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission.
In determining whether rescission would promote compliance with the requirements of the Code and effective tax administration, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account the following list of factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission. This is not an exclusive list, and no single factor will be determinative of whether to grant rescission in any particular case. Rather, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will consider and weigh all relevant factors, regardless of whether the factor is included in this list.
(i) The material advisor, upon becoming aware of the failure to disclose a reportable transaction in accordance with section 6111 and the regulations thereunder, filed a complete and proper, albeit untimely, Form 8918 (or successor form). This factor weighs in favor of rescission if circumstances suggest that the material advisor did not delay in filing an untimely but properly completed Form 8918 (or successor form) until after the IRS had taken steps to identify the person as a material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction. For instance, this factor will weigh strongly in favor of rescission if the material advisor files the Form 8918 (or successor form) prior to the date the IRS contacts the material advisor concerning the reportable transaction. However, this factor will not weigh in favor of rescission if the facts and circumstances indicate that the material advisor delayed filing the Form 8918 (or successor form) until after a taxpayer files a Form 8886 (or successor form) identifying the material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction in question.
(ii) The material advisor's failure to disclose the reportable transaction properly was due to an unintentional mistake of fact that existed despite the material advisor's reasonable attempts to ascertain the correct facts with respect to the transaction.
(iii) The material advisor has an established history of properly disclosing other reportable transactions and complying with other tax laws, including compliance with any requests made by the IRS under section 6112, if applicable.
(iv) The material advisor demonstrates that the failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6111 arose from events beyond the material advisor's control.
(v) The material advisor cooperates with the IRS by providing timely information with respect to the transaction at issue that the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may request in consideration of the rescission request. In considering whether a material advisor cooperates with the IRS, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account whether the material advisor meets the deadlines described in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin for complying with requests for additional information.
(vi) Assessment of the penalty weighs against equity and good conscience, including whether the material advisor demonstrates that there was reasonable cause for, and the material advisor acted in good faith with respect to, the failure to timely file or to include on any return any information required to be disclosed under section 6111. An important factor in determining reasonable cause and good faith is the extent of the material advisor's efforts to determine whether there was a requirement to file the return required under section 6111. The presence of reasonable cause, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.
(4)
Absence of favorable factors weighs against rescission.
The absence of facts establishing the factors described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section weighs against granting rescission. The presence or absence of any one of these factors, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission; rather the determination will be made in consideration of all of the factors and any other facts and circumstances.
(5)
Factors not considered.
In determining whether to grant rescission, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's
delegate) will not consider doubt as to collectability of, or liability for, the penalties (except that the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may consider doubt as to liability to the extent it is a factor in the determination of reasonable cause and good faith).
(f)
Effective/applicability date.
The rules of this section apply to returns the due date for which is after July 31, 2014.
[T.D. 9686, 79 FR 44283, July 31, 2014]
§ 301.6707A-1
Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
(a)
In general.
Any person who fails to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction may be subject to a monetary penalty. Subject to maximum and minimum limits, the penalty for failure to include information with respect to any reportable transaction is 75 percent of the decrease in tax shown on the return as a result of the transaction or the decrease that would have resulted from the transaction if it were respected for Federal tax purposes. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to a listed transaction shall not exceed $100,000 for a natural person and $200,000 for all other persons. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to any other reportable transaction shall not exceed $10,000 for a natural person and $50,000 for all other persons. The penalty with respect to any reportable transaction shall not be less than $5,000 for a natural person and $10,000 for all other persons. The section 6707A penalty is in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Reportable transaction.
The term “reportable transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(1) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(1) of this chapter.
(2)
Listed transaction.
The term “listed transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(2) of this chapter.
(3)
Return.
For purposes of this section, the term
return
means an original return, amended return, or application for tentative refund, except where otherwise indicated. As used in examples, the term
return
means an original return, except where otherwise indicated.
(c)
Assessment of the penalty
—(1)
In general.
The Internal Revenue Service may assess a penalty under section 6707A with respect to each failure to disclose a reportable transaction within the time and in the form and manner provided by §§ 1.6011-4(d) and 1.6011-4(e) of this chapter or pursuant to the time, form, and manner stated in other published guidance. Section 1.6011-4(e) provides, in part, that a taxpayer must attach a disclosure statement to the taxpayer's return for each taxable year for which the taxpayer participates in a reportable transaction. A taxpayer also must attach a disclosure statement to each amended return that reflects the taxpayer's participation in a reportable transaction and, if a reportable transaction results in a loss that is carried back to a prior year, a taxpayer must attach a disclosure statement to the taxpayer's application for tentative refund or amended return for that prior year. In addition, a copy of the disclosure statement must be sent to the IRS Office of Tax Shelter Analysis (OTSA) at the same time that any disclosure statement is first filed by the taxpayer pertaining to a particular reportable transaction.Nonetheless, a taxpayer who is required to disclose a transaction by filing Form 8886, “Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement,” (or successor form) with a return and who is also required to disclose the transaction by filing that form with OTSA, is subject to only a single section 6707A penalty for failure to make either one or both of those disclosures. If section 6011 and the regulations thereunder require a disclosure statement to be filed at the time that a return is filed, the disclosure statement is considered to be timely filed if it is filed at the same time as the return, even if the return is filed untimely after its due date (including extensions).
(2)
Examples.
The rules of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer T is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2008 taxable year and to send a copy of the Form 8886 to OTSA at the time it files its return. Taxpayer T fails to attach the Form 8886 to its return and fails to send a copy of the Form 8886 to OTSA. Taxpayer T is subject to a single penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose because Taxpayer T failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 as described in §§ 1.6011-4(d) and 1.6011-4(e) of this chapter. A penalty under section 6707A also would apply if Taxpayer T had failed to comply with only one of the two requirements.

# Example 2.
Same as
Example 1,
except that Taxpayer T also subsequently files an amended return for 2008 that reflects Taxpayer T's participation in the reportable transaction described in
Example 1.
Taxpayer T fails to attach a Form 8886 to the amended return as required by § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter. Taxpayer T is subject to an additional penalty under section 6707A for failing to disclose a reportable transaction on the amended return for 2008.

# Example 3.
In November 2009, Taxpayer U participates in a reportable transaction resulting in a loss. On March 15, 2010, Taxpayer U files its 2009 return, on which it reports the loss and to which it fails to attach a Form 8886. One month later, Taxpayer U files an amended return for 2008, on which it carries back the loss and to which it fails to attach a Form 8886. Section 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter requires Taxpayer U to attach a Form 8886 to its amended return for the 2008 taxable year. Taxpayer U is subject to two penalties under section 6707A: one for the failure to attach Form 8886 to its amended return for 2008 and another for the failure to attach Form 8886 to its 2009 return.

# Example 4.
Taxpayer V participates in a nonlisted reportable transaction and is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2009 taxable year that is due on March 15, 2010. Taxpayer V timely files its return but fails to attach the Form 8886 to its return. After the due date of Taxpayer V's return and without an extension of time to file, Taxpayer V files an amended return relating to the 2009 taxable year to which Taxpayer V attaches the Form 8886. Taxpayer V is subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose because Taxpayer V failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 (described in § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter) by not attaching a Form 8886 to its original return for the 2009 taxable year that was timely filed on or before the due date of March 15, 2010. An additional penalty under section 6707A would apply if Taxpayer V had failed to attach a Form 8886 to its amended return.

# Example 5.
Shareholder W, a shareholder in an S Corporation, receives a timely Schedule K-1, “Shareholder's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits,
etc.,”
on April 10, 2009, and determines that she is required to attach a Form 8886 to her individual income tax return for the 2008 taxable year. Shareholder W fails to attach the Form 8886 to her 2008 individual income tax return but files a proper and complete Form 8886 with OTSA on June 12, 2009. Section 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter provides that if a taxpayer who is a partner in a partnership, a shareholder in an S corporation, or a beneficiary of a trust receives a timely Schedule K-1 less than 10 calendar days before the due date of the taxpayer's return (including extensions) and, based on receipt of the timely Schedule K-1, the taxpayer determines that the taxpayer participated in a reportable transaction, the disclosure statement will not be considered late if the taxpayer discloses the reportable transaction by filing a disclosure statement with OTSA within 60 calendar days after the due date of the taxpayer's return (including extensions). Accordingly, Shareholder W is not subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose.

# Example 6.
In July 2008, Taxpayer X participates in Transaction Z, a transaction that is not reportable as of April 15, 2009, the date Taxpayer X files his individual income tax return for 2008. On July 15, 2009, Transaction Z is identified as a transaction of interest. Section 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter provides that if a transaction that is not otherwise a reportable transaction becomes a listed transaction or a transaction of interest after the taxpayer has filed a tax return (including an amended return) reflecting the taxpayer's participation in the listed transaction or transaction of interest and before the end of the period of limitations for assessment of tax for any taxable year in which the taxpayer participated in the listed transaction or transaction of interest, then a disclosure statement must be filed with OTSA within 90 calendar days after the date on which the transaction became a listed transaction or transaction of interest, regardless of whether the taxpayer participated in the transaction in the year the transaction became a listed transaction or a transaction of interest. Taxpayer X fails to file a Form 8886 with OTSA by October 13, 2009, 90 calendar days after the date that the transaction was identified as a transaction of interest. Accordingly, Taxpayer X is subject to a penalty under section 6707A.

# Example 7.
Taxpayer Y is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2008 taxable year with respect to participation in a listed transaction. Taxpayer Y attaches the Form 8886 to its timely filed return. The Form 8886, however, does not describe all of the potential tax benefits expected to result from this transaction and states that information will be provided upon request. Because the Form 8886 does not describe all of the potential tax benefits expected to result
from the transaction and merely provides that the information will be provided upon request, the Form 8886 filed by Taxpayer Y is incomplete and does not satisfy the requirements set forth in § 1.6011-4(d) of this chapter. Taxpayer Y is subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose in the appropriate manner.
(d)
Calculation of the penalty
—(1)
Decrease in tax
—(i)
In general.
(A) As used in this section, the phrase
decrease in tax shown on the return as a result of the transaction or the decrease that would have resulted from the transaction if it were respected for Federal tax purposes
means the sum of:
(
1
) The excess of the amount of the tax that would have been shown on the return if the return did not reflect the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transaction over the tax actually reported on the return reflecting participation in the reportable transaction; and
(
2
) Any other tax that results from participation in the reportable transaction but was not reported on the taxpayer's return.
(B) The amount of tax that would have been shown on the return if it did not reflect the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transaction includes adjustments that result mechanically from backing out the reportable transaction, such as tax items affected by an increase in adjusted gross income resulting from not participating in the transaction. The calculation of the penalty is unaffected by whether a taxpayer's tax liability is ultimately settled with the IRS for a different amount or whether the taxpayer subsequently reports a different amount of tax on an amended return, because these amounts do not enter into the calculation of the decrease in tax shown on the return (or returns) to which the penalty relates.
(ii)
Subsequently identified transactions.
If the taxpayer fails to file, as required by § 1.6011-4(a) of this chapter, a complete and proper disclosure statement disclosing participation in a listed transaction or transaction of interest with respect to more than one return in the time prescribed under § 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter, the amount of the penalty will be computed by aggregating the decrease in tax shown on each return for which the period of limitations on assessment remains open.
(iii)
Penalty for failure to report to the SEC.
In the case of a penalty imposed under section 6707A(e) for failure to disclose liability for certain penalties in reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the amount of the penalty will be determined under section 6707A(b) and this paragraph (d), regardless of whether the penalty that the taxpayer failed to disclose is imposed under section 6707A, 6662A, or 6662(h).
(iv)
Minimum and maximum amount of the penalty.
The limitations on the minimum and maximum penalty amounts described in paragraph (a) of this section apply separately to each failure to disclose that is subject to a penalty.
(2)
No tax required to be shown on return.
For returns with respect to which disclosure is required but on which no tax is required to be shown (for example, returns of passthrough entities), the minimum penalty amount will be imposed for the failure to disclose.
(3)
Examples.
The rules in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:
(i)
Example 1.
Taxpayer X, a natural person, participated in a listed transaction involving a Roth IRA and filed a return reflecting participation in the transaction. X failed to disclose participation in the listed transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. As a result of the transaction, X was liable under section 4973 for a $10,000 excise tax for excess contributions to X's Roth IRA. On X's return reflecting participation in the listed transaction, X correctly reported $25,000 of income tax, none of which was attributable to the listed transaction, but failed to report the excise tax. If X had not participated in the listed transaction, the excise tax under section 4973 would not have applied and X's income tax would have remained $25,000. There would, therefore, be no difference between the tax on the return as filed and the tax on the return if it did not reflect participation in the transaction. The excise tax, however, is another tax that resulted from participation in the transaction but was not reported on X's return, as described in
paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax resulting from the listed transaction is $10,000. This amount is determined by adding zero (the excess of the amount of tax that would have been shown on X's return if the return did not reflect X's participation in the transaction over the tax X actually reported on the return reflecting X's participation in the transaction) and $10,000 (the amount of excise tax that resulted from participation in the transaction but was not reported on the return). The amount of the penalty under section 6707A is $7,500, which amount is 75 percent of the $10,000 decrease in tax.
(ii)
Example 2.
Taxpayer X participated in a listed transaction that resulted in a $40,000 decrease in the tax shown on the return reflecting participation in the transaction. X failed to disclose its participation in the transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011 and is, therefore, subject to a penalty under section 6707A. After weighing litigating hazards and other costs of litigation, the IRS Office of Appeals agreed to settle X's deficiency for $20,000. For purposes of calculating the amount of the penalty under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the settlement does not affect the decrease in tax shown on X's return as a result of the listed transaction which remains $40,000. The amount of X's penalty under section 6707A is $30,000, which amount is 75 percent of the $40,000 decrease in tax.
(iii)
Example 3.
For the 2018 tax year, Taxpayer X, a natural person, failed to disclose participation in a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction and, therefore, is subject to a penalty under section 6707A. After offsetting gross income with the losses generated in the reportable transaction, X's return reported adjusted gross income of $100,000. The return also reported $12,000 of medical expenses, $4,500 of which were deductible after applying the 7.5 percent floor in section 213(a) and (f). If X's return had not reflected participation in the reportable transaction, X's adjusted gross income would have been $140,000 and the deductible medical expenses would be limited to $1,500 ($3,000 less than the deductible amount claimed). Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax shown on X's return as a result of X's participation in the reportable transaction takes into account both the tax on the additional $40,000 in adjusted gross income had X not participated in the reportable transaction and the tax on the $3,000 adjustment to X's deductible medical expenses caused by the increase in adjusted gross income.
(iv)
Example 4.
Taxpayer X, a natural person, timely filed X's 2019 return and reported income tax of $40,000. X did not participate in a reportable transaction in 2019. X participated in a listed transaction in 2020, but failed to file a complete and proper disclosure statement with X's 2020 return as required by the regulations under section 6011. As filed, the 2020 return reports that X owes no tax and has a loss of $10,000. If the tax consequences of the listed transaction were not reflected on the 2020 return, the return would show income tax of $15,000 and no loss. X files an amended return for the 2019 tax year on which the only amendment is to carry back the $10,000 loss reported on the 2020 tax return to the 2019 tax year. The loss carryback reduces X's tax liability for 2019 by $3,000 to $37,000. X fails to file a complete and proper disclosure statement with the 2019 amended return as required by the regulations under section 6011. Two penalties under section 6707A apply: one for X's failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2020 return and another for the failure to disclose participation in the same listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax on the 2020 return resulting from the listed transaction is $15,000, which is the excess of the amount of tax that would have been shown on X's 2020 return if that return did not reflect X's participation in the listed transaction over the tax X actually reported on the 2020 return. The amount of the section 6707A penalty with respect to the 2020 return is $11,250, which amount is 75 percent of the decrease in tax. Under
paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax on the 2019 amended return that results from the listed transaction is $3,000. This amount is computed by determining the excess of the amount of tax that would have been shown on X's 2019 amended return if that return did not reflect X's participation in the listed transaction over the tax X actually reported on the 2019 amended return reflecting the loss carryback resulting from X's participation in the listed transaction in 2020.
See
paragraph (c) of this section. However, because X is a natural person, and because 75 percent of the $3,000 decrease in tax is less than $5,000, which is the minimum penalty under paragraph (a) of this section and section 6707A(b)(3), the section 6707A penalty with respect to the failure to disclose the listed transaction with respect to the 2019 amended return is $5,000. Accordingly, X is subject to a $11,250 section 6707A penalty for failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2020 return and a $5,000 section 6707A penalty for failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return.
(v)
Example 5.
Taxpayer X, a corporation, timely files its 2019, 2020, and 2021 returns, each of which reflects participation in the same transaction. In 2023, the transaction becomes a listed transaction. When the transaction at issue became listed, the periods of limitations on assessment on X's 2020 and 2021 tax year were open, but the period of limitations on assessment on X's 2019 tax year was closed. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4(a) and (e)(2)(i) of this chapter, X is required to file a single disclosure statement reflecting its participation in the listed transaction 90 calendar days after the date on which the transaction becomes a listed transaction. X failed to file a disclosure statement as required. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the section 6707A penalty is computed by aggregating the decrease in tax shown on the 2020 return and the decrease in tax shown on the 2021 return. Because the period of limitations on assessment for X's 2019 tax year was closed at the time the transaction became listed, the decrease in tax shown on the 2019 return as a result of X's participation in the listed transaction is not taken into account in computing the amount of the penalty. The decreases in tax shown on the returns as a result of X's participation in the transaction are $265,000 in tax year 2020 and $7,000 in tax year 2021. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the total decrease in tax shown is computed by adding the decrease in tax for 2020 and the decrease in tax for 2021, which is $272,000. Seventy-five percent of that amount is $204,000. Because X is a corporation, the maximum penalty amount is $200,000 under paragraph (a) of this section and section 6707A(b)(2)(A). Accordingly, X is subject to a section 6707A penalty of $200,000, rather than $204,000.
(vi)
Example 6.
Taxpayer X, a natural person, files X's 2019 return reflecting participation in a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction, but fails to disclose the transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. The decrease in tax with respect to X's 2019 return as a result of participation in the reportable transaction is $20,000. X files an amended 2019 return to include a net operating loss carried forward from a prior year, which X inadvertently failed to include when filing the original 2019 return. The amended return reflects participation in the same reportable transaction, but X again fails to disclose the transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. The decrease in tax with respect to the amended 2019 return as a result of participation in the transaction is also $20,000. X is subject to two separate 6707A penalties: one for the failure to disclose the reportable transaction with respect to the tax benefits from the reportable transaction reflected on the original 2019 return and one for the failure to disclose the reportable transaction with respect to the tax benefits from the reportable transaction reflected on the amended 2019 return. Seventy-five percent of the $20,000 decrease in tax shown on the original 2019 return is $15,000 and on the amended 2019 return is another $15,000. However, because X is a natural person, the amount of the penalty for failure to disclose is limited to the maximum amount of $10,000 under § 301.6707A-1(a) and section
6707A(b)(2)(B). Accordingly, the amount of the section 6707A penalty for the 2019 original return is $10,000 and the amount of the section 6707A penalty for the 2019 amended return is also $10,000, for a total penalty of $20,000.
(vii)
Example 7.
Taxpayer X, a natural person, timely files X's 2019 return on April 15, 2020, reflecting participation in a transaction that was not identified as a reportable transaction when X filed the return, the only year X participated in the transaction. In early 2021, the IRS identifies the transaction as a listed transaction. X fails to disclose the listed transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. In late 2021, X files an amended 2019 income tax return to claim deductions that had been omitted from the originally filed 2019 return. The amended 2019 return reflects X's participation in the listed transaction. X does not disclose the listed transaction when filing the amended 2019 return. The decrease in tax resulting from X's participation in the transaction is $100,000 with respect to the original 2019 return and $80,000 with respect to the 2019 amended return. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter, X was required to file a disclosure statement reflecting X's participation in the listed transaction if the period of limitations on assessment of tax remained open for any taxable year in which the taxpayer participated in the listed transaction. When the transaction at issue became listed, the period of limitations on assessment on X's 2019 tax year was open. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter, X was also required to disclose participation in the transaction when the 2019 amended return was filed because the transaction was a listed transaction at that time. X is subject to two penalties under section 6707A: one for the failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on X's original 2019 return within 90 calendar days of the date the transaction became a listed transaction as required by § 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter and another for the failure to disclose participation in the same listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return. Seventy-five percent of this decrease in tax with respect to the original 2019 return is $75,000 (75 percent of $100,000) and with respect to the 2019 amended return is $60,000 (75 percent of $80,000). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, because X is subject to two separate penalties, the maximum penalty amount of $100,000 under § 301.6707A-1(a) and section 6707A(b)(2)(A) applies separately to each penalty and does not operate to reduce the amount of the X's 6707A penalties.
(viii)
Example 8.
Under § 1.6011-4 of this chapter, Partnership M is required to attach a disclosure statement to its Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income, for the 2020 taxable year. M fails to do so and is, therefore, subject to a penalty under section 6707A. No tax is required to be shown on M's Form 1065. Pursuant to § 301.6707A-1(d)(2), M is subject to the minimum section 6707A penalty of $10,000. The partners of Partnership M may have separate disclosure obligations as required by the regulations under section 6011 and would be subject to separate section 6707A penalties if they fail to comply with the disclosure requirements.
(ix)
Example 9.
In tax year 2019, Taxpayer X participated in a listed transaction that resulted in a $150,000 deduction. X's gross income for 2019 before the listed transaction deduction is $100,000. X uses $100,000 of the deduction resulting in zero tax liability for 2019. X carried over to tax year 2020 the remaining $50,000 net operating loss that was not used in 2019. X's gross income for tax year 2020 is $200,000 but as a result of the $50,000 net operating loss carryover, X reports $150,000 adjusted gross income. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4 of this chapter, X is required to disclose participation in the listed transaction for both 2019 and 2020, but X fails to make the required disclosures and is therefore subject to the section 6707A penalty for each failure. The decrease in tax on the 2019 return is the amount of tax on $100,000 because that is the difference between the amount of tax that would have been shown on the return if it did not reflect participation in the listed transaction and the tax actually reported. No other tax resulted from X's participation in the listed transaction. The amount of the penalty with respect to X's failure to disclose with respect to 2019 will be 75
percent of the decrease in tax. The decrease in tax on the 2020 return is the difference between the tax shown on the return as filed and the tax that would be shown if the $50,000 net operating loss was not used, including any changes to the amount of tax that are only indirectly connected with the listed transaction. The amount of the penalty with respect to X's failure to disclose with respect to 2020 will be 75 percent of the decrease in tax, subject to the minimum and maximum penalty amount limitations.
(x)
Example 10.
In tax year 2020, Taxpayer X, a natural person, participated in a listed transaction that resulted in a $50,000 deduction. X also has a net operating loss carryover of $150,000 from 2019. X uses the deduction of $50,000 and a portion of the net operating loss carryover resulting in zero tax liability for 2020. X carries over the remaining net operating loss to tax year 2021. X's gross income for 2021 is $250,000, but as a result of the net operating loss carryover, X reports reduced adjusted gross income of $150,000. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4 of this chapter, X is required to disclose participation in the listed transaction for both 2020 and 2021, but X fails to make the required disclosures and is subject to the section 6707A penalty for each failure. The decrease in tax on the 2020 return that results from the reportable transaction is zero. Because X has $150,000 of a net operating loss carryover not attributable to the reportable transaction, X's tax without the benefits of the reportable transaction is the same as the tax shown on the 2020 return as filed. Because X is a natural person, the minimum penalty of $5,000 under § 301.6707A-1(a) and section 6707A(b)(3) will apply for the failure to disclose the listed transaction with the 2020 return. The decrease in tax on the 2021 return is the difference between the tax shown on the return as filed and the tax that would be shown if X had only $50,000 of net operating loss to carry over to 2021 (
i.e.,
if X had not offset $50,000 of its 2020 gross income with the deduction resulting from the reportable transaction and thus had used $100,000 of its net operating loss carryover in 2020), including any changes to the amount of tax that are only indirectly connected with the listed transaction. The amount of the penalty with respect to the disclosure relating to 2021 will be 75 percent of this decrease in tax, subject to the minimum and maximum penalty amount limitations.
(xi)
Example 11.
Taxpayer X, a public corporation required to file periodic reports under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, timely filed its 2019 return reflecting tax benefits from a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction and properly disclosed the transaction in accordance with the regulations under section 6011. In 2023, as a result of an examination of X's 2019 return, the IRS imposes a penalty under section 6662A with respect to the reportable transaction. The decrease in tax for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section is $190,000. As a person who is required to file periodic reports under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, X is required, pursuant to section 6707A(e), to disclose the penalty imposed under section 6662A to the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2023, which X failed to do. X's failure to disclose the section 6662A penalty is treated as a failure to disclose to which section 6707A(b) applies. Thus, X is subject to a penalty under section 6707A(e), which equals 75 percent of the decrease in tax resulting from the transaction. The decrease in tax resulting from the reportable transaction was $190,000, 75 percent of which is $142,500. Because X is a corporation and the transaction is not a listed transaction, the amount of the penalty is limited to $50,000 under paragraph (a) of this section and section 6707A(b)(2)(B). Therefore, rather than $142,500, X is subject to a $50,000 section 6707A penalty for failure to disclose the section 6662A penalty to the SEC.
(e)
Rescission authority
—(1)
In general.
The Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may rescind the section 6707A penalty if—
(i) The violation relates to a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction; and
(ii) Rescinding the penalty would promote compliance with the requirements of the Code and effective tax administration.
(2)
Requesting rescission.
The Secretary may prescribe the procedures
for a taxpayer to request rescission of a section 6707A penalty with respect to a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction by publishing a revenue procedure or other guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
(3)
Factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission.
In determining whether rescission would promote compliance with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account the following list of factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission. This is not an exclusive list and no single factor will be determinative of whether to grant rescission in any particular case. Rather, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will consider and weigh all relevant factors, regardless of whether the factor is included in this list.
(i) The taxpayer, upon becoming aware that it failed, in whole or in part, to disclose a reportable transaction in accordance with the requirements of § 1.6011-4 of this chapter, filed a complete and proper, albeit untimely, Form 8886 (or successor form), as required by § 1.6011-4. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with a return, in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file an amended return with the appropriate Service Center and attach a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) to that amended return. The amended return filed with the untimely Form 8886 (or successor form) must not reflect any other changes to the return that it amends, and the taxpayer must, in the space provided for an explanation of changes on the amended return, state the reason for filing the amended return. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA. If the taxpayer fails to file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with the return and also fails to file a copy of the complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, incurring one penalty for both failures, then the taxpayer must, in the manner prescribed in this paragraph (e)(3)(i), file complete and proper Forms 8886 with both the Service Center and OTSA in order for the untimely disclosures to weigh in favor of rescission. This factor will weigh heavily in favor of rescission provided that—
(A) The taxpayer files the Form 8886 prior to the date the IRS first contacts the taxpayer (including contacts by the IRS with any partnership in which the taxpayer is a partner, any S corporation in which the taxpayer is a shareholder, or any trust in which the taxpayer is a beneficiary) concerning a tax examination for the tax period in which the taxpayer participated in the reportable transaction; and
(B) Other circumstances suggest that the taxpayer did not delay filing an untimely but properly completed Form 8886 until after the IRS had taken steps to identify the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transaction in question.
(ii) The failure, in whole or in part, to disclose in accordance with the requirements of § 1.6011-4 of this chapter was due to an unintentional mistake of fact that existed despite the taxpayer's reasonable attempts to ascertain the correct facts with respect to the transaction.
(iii) The taxpayer has an established history of properly disclosing other reportable transactions and complying with other tax laws.
(iv) The taxpayer demonstrates that the failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 arose from events beyond the taxpayer's control.
(v) The taxpayer cooperates with the IRS by providing timely information with respect to the transaction at issue that the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may request in consideration of the rescission request. In considering whether a taxpayer cooperates with the IRS, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account whether the taxpayer meets the deadlines described in Rev. Proc. 2007-21 (2007-1 CB 613) (or successor document) (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter) for
complying with requests for additional information.
(vi) Assessment of the penalty weighs against equity and good conscience, including whether the taxpayer demonstrates that there was reasonable cause for, and the taxpayer acted in good faith with respect to, the failure to timely file or to include on any return any information required to be disclosed under section 6011. An important factor in determining reasonable cause and good faith is the extent of the taxpayer's efforts to ensure that persons who prepared the taxpayer's return were informed of the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transactions; this factor will be disregarded, however, if the persons who prepared the taxpayer's return were material advisors with respect to the reportable transaction. The presence of reasonable cause, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.
(4)
Absence of favorable factors weighs against rescission.
The absence of facts establishing the factors described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section weighs against granting rescission. The absence of any one of these factors, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.
(5)
Factors not considered.
In determining whether to grant rescission, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will not consider collectability of, or doubt as to liability for, the penalties (except that the Commissioner may consider doubt as to liability to the extent it is a factor in the determination of reasonable cause and good faith).
(6)
Example.
The following example illustrates the rules of paragraph (e)(3) of this section:

# Example.
In 2008, Taxpayer Z participated in a nonlisted reportable transaction for the first time. Under § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter, he was required to attach a complete and proper Form 8886 to his 2008 return, due on April 15, 2009, and to file a copy of the Form 8886 with OTSA. Taxpayer Z timely filed his 2008 return but failed to attach a Form 8886 to his return or file a Form 8886 with OTSA. On June 1, 2009, Taxpayer Z discovered his error. On June 8, 2009, Taxpayer Z filed an amended return for tax year 2008 and attached a complete and proper Form 8886 that disclosed his participation in the reportable transaction. The amended return reflected no changes from the original return and explained that the sole purpose of the amended return was to correct Taxpayer Z's failure to file a Form 8886 with his original return. On June 8, 2009, Taxpayer Z also filed a copy of the complete and proper Form 8886 with OTSA. The IRS later notified Taxpayer Z that he was subject to a penalty under section 6707A because he failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 by not attaching Form 8886 to his return for the 2008 taxable year. The IRS properly assessed the penalty under section 6707A and, on October 15, 2010, issued notice and demand. On November 1, 2010, in accordance with Rev. Proc. 2007-21, Taxpayer Z submitted a written request for rescission of the assessed penalty. The fact that Taxpayer Z filed an untimely Form 8886 shortly after discovery of his error but before the IRS first contacted him concerning his return for the 2008 taxable year will weigh heavily in favor of rescission.
(f)
Reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
—(1)
In general.
Under section 6707A(e), a taxpayer who is required to file periodic reports under section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or is required to be consolidated with another person for purposes of these reports) must disclose in certain reports, as provided in revenue procedures or other guidance published pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the requirement to pay each of the following penalties:
(i) The penalty imposed by section 6707A(a) for failure to disclose a listed transaction.
(ii) The accuracy-related penalty imposed by section 6662A(a) at the 30- percent rate determined under section 6662A(c) for a reportable transaction understatement with respect to which the relevant facts affecting the tax treatment of the reportable transaction were not adequately disclosed in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 6011.
(iii) The accuracy-related penalty imposed by section 6662(a) at the 40-percent rate determined under section 6662(h) for a gross valuation misstatement, if the taxpayer (but for the exclusionary rule of section 6662A(e)(2)(C)(ii)) would have been subject to the accuracy-related penalty under section 6662A(a) at the 30-percent rate determined under section 6662A(c).
(iv) The penalty described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section for failure to disclose in periodic reports filed with the SEC the requirement to pay any of the penalties described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iii) or paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(2)
Manner and content of disclosure.
The Secretary may, by publishing a revenue procedure or other guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, prescribe the manner in which the disclosure under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be made, including identification of the specific SEC form and section thereof in which the taxpayer must make the disclosure as well as specification of the timing and contents of the disclosure.
(3)
Penalty for failure to disclose in SEC filings.
Any taxpayer who is required to file periodic reports under section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or is required to file consolidated reports with another person) may be subject to a penalty under section 6707A(b) for each failure to disclose the requirement to pay a penalty identified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iii) of this section in the manner specified by revenue procedure or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. The taxpayer also may be subject to an additional penalty under section 6707A(b) for each failure to disclose a penalty arising under this section in the manner specified by revenue procedure or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. The penalty provided by this paragraph (f)(3) will be rescinded if the IRS rescinds in full the penalty for failing to disclose under section 6011 the reportable transaction underlying the penalty provided by this section. Otherwise, the penalty provided by this paragraph (f)(3) is not subject to rescission.
(g)
Applicability date.
(1) This section applies to penalties assessed after
March 26, 2019.
(2) For penalties assessed before
March 26, 2019,
§ 301.6707A-1 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 2018) shall apply.
[T.D. 9550, 76 FR 55258, Sept. 7, 2011, as amended by T.D. 9853, 84 FR 11219, Mar. 26, 2019]
§ 301.6708-1
Failure to maintain lists of advisees with respect to reportable transactions.
(a)
In general.
Any person who is required to maintain a list under section 6112 who, upon written request for the list, fails to make the list available to the Secretary within 20 business days after the date of the request shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of $10,000 for each subsequent calendar day on which the person fails to furnish a list containing the information and in the form required by section 6112 and its corresponding regulations. The penalty will not be imposed on any particular day or days for which the person establishes that the failure to comply on that day is due to reasonable cause.
(b)
Calculation of the 20-business-day period.
The 20-business-day period shall begin on the first business day after the earliest of the date that the IRS—
(1) Mails a request for the list required to be maintained under section 6112(a) by certified or registered mail to the person required to maintain the list;
(2) Hand delivers the written request to the person required to maintain the list; or
(3) Leaves the written request with an individual 18 years old or older at the usual place of business of the person required to maintain the list.
(c)
Making a list available.
(1) A person who is required to maintain a list required by section 6112 may make the list available by mailing or delivering it to the IRS within 20 business days after the date of the list request. Section 7502 and the regulations thereunder shall apply to this section.
(2) A person who is required to maintain a list required by section 6112 may also make the list available to the IRS by making it available for inspection and copying during normal business hours, as provided by section 6112, or by another agreed-upon method, on an agreed-upon date that falls within the 20-business-day period following the list request.
(3)
Extension
—(i)
In general.
Upon a showing of good cause by the person prior to the expiration of the 20-business-day period following a list request, the IRS may, in its discretion,
agree to extend the period within which to make all or part of the list available. For purposes of this paragraph, “good cause” is shown if the person establishes that the 20-business-day deadline cannot reasonably be met despite diligent efforts by the person to maintain the materials constituting a list and to make that list available to the IRS in the time and manner required by the Secretary under section 6112.
(ii)
Requesting an extension.
Any request for an extension of the 20-business-day period must be made in writing to the person at the IRS who requested the list. The person requesting an extension must briefly describe the information and documents that comprise the list as required by section 6112; explain the circumstances that would warrant additional time; propose a schedule to complete the production of the list; state that to the best of the person's knowledge, as of the date of the list request, all information and records relating to the list under the person's possession, custody, or control had been maintained in accordance with procedures and policies that are consistent with sections 6001 and 6112 of the Internal Revenue Code; and state that the extension request is not being made to avoid the person's list maintenance obligations imposed by section 6112 and its corresponding regulations. The IRS may, in its discretion, grant the person's extension request in full or in part. The IRS will consider whether granting an extension may impair its ability to make a timely assessment against any of the participants in the transaction associated with the requested list. The IRS will not grant an extension if it determines that a significant reason for the extension request is to delay producing the list. A pending extension request by itself does not constitute reasonable cause for purposes of section 6708.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate paragraph (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. These examples are intended to illustrate how the facts and circumstances in paragraph (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section may apply; in any given case, however, all of the facts and circumstances must be analyzed.

# Example 1.
(i) Firm A is a large law firm that is a material advisor. Firm A conducts annual sessions to educate its professionals about reportable transactions and the firm's obligations related to those reportable transactions. Firm A instructs its professionals to provide information on tax engagements that involve reportable transactions and to provide the documents required to be maintained under sections 6001 and 6112 to Firm A's compliance officer for list maintenance purposes. Firm A's policy provides that, for each engagement involving a reportable transaction, one firm professional will send an email to the firm's compliance officer about the engagement and then direct a subordinate to send the documents required to be maintained to the firm's compliance officer. Firm A has policies and procedures in place to monitor compliance with these rules and to address non-compliance.
(ii) Firm A receives a request from the IRS for a section 6112 list. In compiling its list to turn over to the IRS during the 20-business-day period following the list request, Firm A discovers that, with respect to one reportable transaction, a subordinate did not provide the documentation required by Firm A's policy. In addition, Firm A experiences difficulty locating the required documents as both the professional and the subordinate who worked on the matter are no longer employed by Firm A, requiring the firm to undertake an extensive search for the information responsive to the list request. Firm A also seeks the information from the firm's clients. Despite these efforts, Firm A reasonably determined that it will not be able to respond timely to the request. Within the 20-business-day period, Firm A notifies the IRS, in writing, of the difficulties it is experiencing and requests an additional 10 business days to locate and produce the information for this one transaction. Within the 20-business-day period, Firm A makes all other required list information available to the IRS, together with a description of the information that is being searched for, all statements required by these regulations, and a proposed schedule to produce the missing information.
(iii) Under these circumstances, Firm A demonstrated that it could not reasonably make the portion of the list relating to the one transaction available within the 20-business-day period and thus qualified for an extension. Firm A had established policies and procedures reasonably designed and implemented to ensure and monitor compliance with the requirements of section 6112 and address non-compliance. Because the facts and circumstances indicate that Firm A made diligent efforts to maintain the materials constituting the list in a readily accessible form and as otherwise required under section 6112, the requested 10-business-day extension
with respect to the portion of the list relating to the one transaction where records were not maintained in accordance with the firm's policies and procedures should be granted.

# Example 2.
(i) Assume the same facts set forth in example one, except that, in the process of compiling the list to comply with the list maintenance request, Firm A first becomes aware that a firm professional did not send an email to the firm's compliance officer about a transaction subject to the list maintenance request and did not direct a subordinate to send to the firm's compliance officer the information required to be maintained with respect to the transaction. Assume further that Firm A had a robust section 6112 compliance monitoring program in place and despite this, the firm did not know that the professional did not follow firm policies and procedures with respect to this transaction. The professional who worked on the matter is no longer employed by Firm A, causing Firm A difficulty in locating the required information and in ascertaining whether the professional in question failed to comply with Firm A's list maintenance policies with respect to any other reportable transactions. Firm A is searching its records to locate information responsive to the list request and to ensure that no other reportable transactions were omitted from the list. Firm A estimates that it will take an additional 20 business days after the 20th business day to retrieve the missing information and provide IRS with the additional information responsive to the list request. Within the 20-business-day period, Firm A notifies the IRS, in writing, of the difficulties it is experiencing and requests an additional 20 business days to locate and produce the information for this one transaction and for any other reportable transactions omitted from the list as a result of the inaction by the professional in question. Within the 20-business-day period, Firm A makes all other required list information available to the IRS, together with a description of the information that is being searched for, all statements required by these regulations, and a proposed schedule to produce the missing documents.
(ii) Under these facts and circumstances, Firm A demonstrated that it could not reasonably, within the 20-business-day period, make available the portion of the list relating to one or possibly more transactions omitted from the list because of the inaction of the professional in question. Firm A therefore qualifies for an extension. Firm A had established policies and procedures reasonably designed and implemented to ensure and monitor compliance with the requirements of section 6112 and address non-compliance. Because the facts and circumstances indicate that Firm A made diligent efforts to maintain the materials constituting the list in a readily accessible form and as otherwise required under section 6112, the requested 20-business-day extension with respect to the portion of the list relating to the one known omitted transaction and to any other omitted reportable transactions resulting from the inaction of the professional in question should be granted.
(d)
Failure to make list available.
A failure to make the list available includes any failure to furnish the requested list to the IRS in a timely manner and in the form required under section 6112 and its corresponding regulations. Examples of failures to make a list available include instances in which a person fails to furnish any list; furnishes an incomplete list; or furnishes a list, whether or not complete, after the time required by this section.
(e)
Computation of penalty
—(1)
In general.
The penalty imposed by section 6708 accrues daily, beginning on the first calendar day after the expiration of the 20-business-day period following a written list request, and continues for each calendar day thereafter until the person's failure to furnish a list in the form required by section 6112 and its corresponding regulations ends. If the list is delivered or mailed to the IRS outside of the 20-business-day period, the penalty shall not apply on the day the list is delivered to the IRS or, if the list is mailed, the day the list is received by the IRS.
(2)
Computation of penalty after grant of extension.
If the IRS grants an extension of the 20-business-day period pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the penalty imposed by section 6708 accrues daily, beginning on the first calendar day after the extension period expires, and continues for each calendar day thereafter until the person's failure to furnish a list in the form required by section 6112 and its corresponding regulations ends. If the list is delivered or mailed to the IRS outside of the period of extension, the penalty shall not apply on the day the list is delivered to the IRS or, if the list is mailed, the day the list is received by the IRS.
(3)
Designation agreements and concurrent application of penalty.
If material
advisors with respect to the same reportable transaction enter into a designation agreement pursuant to section 6112(b)(2) and § 301.6112-1(f), separate penalties will be imposed on designated material advisors and nondesignated material advisors who are parties to the designation agreement for their respective periods of failure or noncompliance with a list request. A penalty will continue to accrue against a material advisor who is a party to a designation agreement until such time when a list complying with the requirements of section 6112 and its corresponding regulations is furnished by that material advisor or any other material advisor who is a party to the designation agreement.
(4)
Example.
The following example illustrates paragraph (e) of this section.

# Example.
The IRS hand delivers a written request for the list required to be maintained under section 6112 to Firm B, a material advisor, on Friday, March 10, 2017. Firm B must make the list available to the IRS on or before Friday, April 7, 2017, the 20th business day after the request was hand delivered. If Firm B fails to make the list available to the IRS by that day, absent reasonable cause or the IRS's grant of an extension of the response time, the $10,000-per-day penalty begins on Saturday, April 8, 2017. The $10,000 per day penalty will continue for each subsequent calendar day until Firm B makes the complete list available, except for those days for which Firm B demonstrates reasonable cause. If Firm B hand delivers a complete copy of the requested list to the IRS on the morning of Tuesday, April 11, 2017, absent reasonable cause or the IRS's prior grant of an extension for the response time, a penalty of $30,000 will be imposed upon Firm B (for April 8, 9, and 10). See paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section for an explanation of reasonable cause.
(f)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Material advisor
means a person described in section 6111 and § 301.6111-3(b).
(2)
Business day
means every calendar day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday within the meaning of section 7503.
(3)
Reportable transaction
means a transaction described in section 6707A(c)(1) and section 1.6011-4(b)(1).
(4)
Listed transaction
means a transaction described in section 6707A(c)(2) and § 1.6011-4(b)(2) of this chapter.
(g)
Reasonable cause—general applicability
—(1)
Overview.
The section 6708 penalty will not be imposed for any day or days for which the person shows that the failure to make a complete list available to the IRS was due to reasonable cause. The determination of whether a person had reasonable cause is made on a case-by-case and day-by-day basis, taking into account all the relevant facts and circumstances. Facts and circumstances relevant to a material advisor's reasonable cause for failing to make available the list on a specific day include facts and circumstances arising after the request for the list. The person's showing of reasonable cause should relate to each specific day or days for which the person failed to make available the requested list. Factors establishing reasonable cause include, but are not limited to, factors identified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(2)
Good-faith factors.
The most important factors to establish reasonable cause are those that reflect the extent of the person's good-faith efforts to comply with section 6112. The following factors, which are not exclusive, will be considered in determining whether a person has made a good-faith effort to comply with the section 6112 requirements:
(i) The person's efforts to determine or assess its status as a material advisor as defined by section 6111;
(ii) The person's efforts to determine the information and documentation required to be maintained under section 6112;
(iii) The person's efforts to meet its obligations to maintain a readily producible list as required by section 6112;
(iv) The person's efforts, upon receiving the list request, to make the list available to the IRS within the 20-business-day period (or extended period) under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(3) of this section; and
(v) The person's efforts to ensure that the list furnished to the IRS is accurate and complete.
(3)
Ordinary business care.
The exercise of ordinary business care may constitute reasonable cause. To show ordinary business care, the person may, for example, show that the person established, and adhered to, procedures reasonably designed and implemented to ensure compliance with the section 6112 requirements. In all instances when ordinary business care is claimed as constituting reasonable cause, a person must show that the person took immediate steps, upon discovering any failure relating to the list, to correct the failure. A person's failure to take immediate steps to correct a failure related to the list upon discovering the failure is a factor weighing against a conclusion that the person exercised ordinary business care. Notwithstanding the occurrence of an isolated and inadvertent failure, a person still may be able to demonstrate that the person exercised ordinary business care, considering all the relevant facts and circumstances, but only if the person had established and adhered to procedures reasonably designed and implemented to ensure compliance with the section 6112 requirements.
(4)
Supervening events.
A person may establish reasonable cause for one or more days for which, considering all the relevant facts and circumstances, the failure to timely furnish the list required by section 6112 was due solely to a supervening event beyond the person's control. Events beyond a person's control may include fire, flood, storm, or other casualty; illness; theft; or other similarly unexpected event that damages or impairs the person's relevant business records or system for processing and providing these records, or that affects the person's ability to maintain the section 6112 list or make it available to the IRS. Reasonable cause may be established only for the period that a person who exercised ordinary business care would need to provide the list from alternative records in existence, or make the list available, under the specific facts and circumstances.
(5)
Reliance on opinion or advice
—(i)
In general.
A person may rely on an independent tax professional's advice to establish reasonable cause. The reliance, however, must be reasonable and in good faith, in light of all the other facts and circumstances. For a person to be considered to have relied on the advice, the advice must have been received by the person before the date the list is required to be made available to the IRS. If the person received advice from an independent tax professional, the person's reliance on that advice will be considered reasonable only if the independent tax professional reasonably believed that it is more likely than not that the person does not have an obligation imposed by section 6112. For example, this advice may conclude that the person is not a material advisor; that the transaction upon which the person provided material aid, assistance, or advice is not a reportable transaction for which a list was required to be maintained as of the date of the advice; that the information and documents to be produced constitute the required list; or that the information or documents withheld by the person are not required to be produced. The advice must also take into account and consider all relevant facts and circumstances, not rely on unreasonable legal or factual assumptions, not rely on or take into account the possibility that a list request may not be made, and not rely on unreasonable representations or statements of the person seeking the advice. Advice from a tax professional who is not independent may be considered in determining reasonable cause if, in light of and in relation to all the other facts and circumstances, taking into account such advice is reasonable. However, by itself, advice from a tax professional who is not independent is not sufficient to establish reasonable cause. Independent tax professional advice is not required to establish reasonable cause and the failure to obtain advice from an independent tax professional does not preclude a finding of reasonable cause if, based on the totality of all of the relevant facts and circumstances, reasonable cause has been established.
(ii)
Independent tax professional.
For purposes of this section, an independent tax professional is a person who is knowledgeable in the relevant aspects of Federal tax law and who is not a material advisor with respect to
the specific transaction that is the subject of the list request. For advice related to a listed transaction, a person who is a material advisor with respect to any transaction that is the same as or substantially similar to the type of transaction that is the subject of the list request will not be considered an independent tax professional.
(6)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (g). These examples are intended to illustrate how the facts and circumstances in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(5) of this section may apply; in any given case, however, all of the facts and circumstances must be analyzed.

# Example 1.
On August 11, 2017, the IRS sends a list request via certified mail to Firm C, a material advisor. Firm C consists of a sole practitioner, X, who is away from the office on vacation on this date. X has arranged for a colleague, Y, to review Firm C's mail, email, and telephone messages daily during his absence. X returns to the office the day after his vacation ends, on September 5, 2017, and immediately contacts the IRS to notify it of his absence. Firm C makes a complete list available to the IRS on September 19, 2017, 10 business days after he has returned from vacation. Firm C establishes that X was on vacation at the time the list request was sent to Firm C, and Firm C promptly furnished the requested list in a manner and time period reflecting ordinary business care and prudence upon X's return to the office. Under these circumstances, Firm C is considered to have made a good-faith effort to comply with the section 6112 requirements. Firm C has established reasonable cause for the entire period between the expiration of the 20-business-day period following the list request and the date the list was made available to the IRS. See paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.

# Example 2.
On March 3, 2017, the IRS hand delivers to Firm D, a material advisor, a list request related to a transaction believed by the IRS to have been implemented in November 2008 by a group of Firm D's clients (the advisees). Firm D's involvement in the transaction included implementing the transaction on behalf of some but not all of the advisees. Firm D timely makes the requested list available to the IRS. Upon review, the IRS determines that the information furnished by Firm D appears to be accurate, but the IRS believes that some of the information is incomplete because it does not contain information about certain individuals who were identified through other investigative means as Firm D's clients who may have engaged in the transaction. In response to a follow-up inquiry by the IRS, Firm D establishes, however, that it is not a material advisor with respect to these taxpayers. Under these circumstances, Firm D has furnished the list as required by section 6112. Because the list was complete when furnished, Firm D need not make a showing of reasonable cause. See paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

# Example 3.
The IRS sends a list request by certified mail to Firm E, a material advisor. Firm E maintains the materials responsive to the list request on a portable data storage device. Under Firm E's established procedures for maintaining section 6112 lists, once the transaction is completed, paper documents are scanned and saved electronically according to Firm E's records management procedures. Under Firm E's records management procedures, after the scanning process is completed, Firm E sends the paper documents to an off-site storage facility. Three days before the 20th business day following the date of the written request, the electronic data is permanently destroyed. Firm E contacts the IRS representative listed as a contact person on the section 6112 list request to advise him that the relevant data was permanently destroyed. Firm E establishes that it exercised ordinary business care but that the data was nevertheless destroyed due to circumstances outside of its control. Under these circumstances, Firm E has reasonable cause for the period of time that Firm E cannot respond to the list request due to circumstances out of Firm E's control. The reasonable cause exception, however, will only be available to Firm E for the period of time that a person who exercises ordinary business care would need to obtain the materials that are part of the list, including in this case paper documents from the off-site storage facility, and furnish the list to the IRS. See paragraphs (g)(3) and (4) of section.

# Example 4.
On February 2, 2017, the IRS hand delivers a list request to Firm F, a material advisor. Firm F filed with the IRS the disclosure statement required by section 6111 for the reportable transaction that is the subject of the list request but did not maintain the section 6112 list documentation in a readily accessible format after filing the section 6111 statement. On March 3, 2017, the 20th business day (due to the Presidents' Day holiday) after the list request is delivered to Firm F, Firm F contacts the IRS to ask for additional time to comply with the list request, stating that it could not gather the list information together in 20 business days. Because Firm F is not able to show that it made diligent efforts to maintain the materials constituting the list in a readily accessible form, the IRS should not grant Firm F an extension of time. See paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Further, Firm F does not have reasonable cause because it has failed to demonstrate a good-faith effort to comply
with the section 6112 requirements and ordinary business care. See paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.

# Example 5.
On August 11, 2017, the IRS sends a list request, via certified mail, to Firm G, a material advisor. Firm G consists of a sole practitioner, P. Firm G maintains the materials responsive to the list request electronically. Generally, under Firm G's records management procedures, once a transaction is completed, the documents related to that transaction are scanned and then saved electronically consistent with IRS guidance on maintaining books and records in electronic form. P is aware of the list request but ignores it. On September 24, 2017, the 13th calendar day after the 20-business-day period following the list request (due to the Labor Day holiday), P suffers a temporary but debilitating illness that lasts 22 days. Following the illness, P immediately returns to work. After returning to work, P continues to ignore the list request. In this situation, the facts and circumstances indicate that Firm G does not have reasonable cause for any day in which there was a failure to make the list available to the IRS, including the 22 days due to the intervening event, because the failure was not due solely to the supervening event occurring on September 24, 2017. Firm G did not make a good-faith effort to make the list available to the IRS before or after the supervening event occurred. Firm G is liable for the $10,000 per day penalty from the first day following the expiration of the 20-business-day period until but not including the day that Firm G furnishes the list to the IRS. See paragraphs (g)(2) and (4) of this section.

# Example 6.
On August 11, 2017, the IRS sends a list request, via certified mail, to Firm H, a material advisor. Firm H, consists of a sole practitioner, P. Firm H maintains the materials responsive to the list request electronically. Generally, under Firm H's records management procedures, once the transaction is completed, the documents are scanned and then saved electronically consistent with IRS guidance on maintaining books and records in electronic form. P is aware of the list request and begins compiling the documents to respond to the IRS within the 20-business-day period ending on September 11, 2017 (due to the Labor Day holiday). Before responding to the list request, P suffers a temporary but debilitating illness on September 3, 2017, that lasts through September 19, 2017. Upon returning to work on September 20, 2017, P contacts the IRS to explain that P experienced a temporary but debilitating illness from September 3, 2017, through September 19, 2017, and that P has returned to the office and intends to furnish the list to the IRS within a short period of time. Firm H furnishes the list to the IRS on September 22, 2017. In this situation, the facts and circumstances indicate that Firm H has reasonable cause for the period from September 12, 2017 until September 21, 2017, attributable to P's illness. The failure to furnish the list in a timely fashion was solely attributable to the supervening event occurring on September 3, 2017, and Firm H promptly furnished the requested list in a manner and time period reflecting ordinary business care upon P's return to the office. Firm H is considered to have made a good-faith effort to comply with the section 6112 requirements. Firm H has established reasonable cause for the entire period between the expiration of the 20-business-day period following the list request and the date Firm H furnished the list to the IRS. See paragraphs (g)(2) and (4) of this section.

# Example 7.
Firm I receives a list request for transactions that are the same or substantially similar to the listed transaction described in Notice 2002-21, 2002-1 CB 730. Firm I will be considered a material advisor with respect to a particular transaction for which it provided advice if the transaction is the same as or substantially similar to the transaction described in Notice 2002-21. Firm I, however, is unsure whether the transaction is the same as or substantially similar to the transaction described in this Notice. Firm I obtains an opinion from Firm L, a law firm, on this issue. P, a partner in Firm L, provided tax advice to clients who invested in other Notice 2002-21 transactions, including how to report the purported tax benefits from the transaction on their income tax returns, and Firm L is a material advisor with respect to those transactions. Because Firm L is a material advisor with respect to the type of transaction that is the same as or substantially similar to the transaction described in Notice 2002-21, Firm L is not considered an independent tax professional under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section. Therefore, Firm I cannot rely on advice provided by Firm L to establish reasonable cause under this paragraph (g). The IRS may consider Firm L's advice in determining reasonable cause in light of other facts and circumstances, but Firm L's advice, without more, is not sufficient to establish reasonable cause because P is not an independent tax professional under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section.

# Example 8.
Firm J, a law firm, provides advice to various clients of the firm regarding the potential tax benefits of a reportable transaction under § 1.6011-4(b)(5) of this chapter (involving a section 165 loss) and is a material advisor with respect to that transaction. Firm J also provides advice to Firm M, an accounting firm, regarding the same transaction. Firm M then advises various Firm M clients regarding this same transaction, and is a material advisor. The transaction is not a listed transaction. Firm N, a law firm that is not associated with Firm J
and has not provided advice with respect to the same transaction to Firm M, has provided advice to its own clients regarding other transactions subject to § 1.6011-4(b)(5) of this chapter, but not the particular transaction that was the subject of Firm J's advice to Firm M. The IRS hand delivers a list request to Firm M, the subject of which is the transaction regarding which Firm J provided advice to Firm M. Before the expiration of the 20-business-day period, Firm M seeks advice from Firm J and Firm N about the propriety of withholding certain documents related to the transaction. Because Firm J provided advice with respect to the particular transaction that is the subject of the list request, Firm J is not an independent tax professional under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section. Although Firm N has provided advice on a transaction that is considered a reportable transaction under § 1.6011-4(b)(5) of this chapter, Firm N is considered to be an independent tax professional under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section because Firm N did not provide material assistance with respect to the particular transaction that is the subject of the list request.
(h)
Reasonable cause—special considerations
—(1)
Material advisor no longer in existence.
If a material advisor has dissolved, been liquidated, or otherwise is no longer in existence, the person required by section 6112 to maintain the list (the “responsible person”) is subject to the penalty for failing to make the list available. In considering whether a responsible person or successor in interest has reasonable cause for any failure to timely make the list available to the IRS, the IRS will consider all of the facts and circumstances, including those facts and circumstances relating to the dissolution, liquidation, and winding up of the original material advisor's business and any efforts the original material advisor made to comply with the section 6112 requirements before the dissolution or liquidation. When appropriate or applicable, due diligence, if any, performed by a responsible person or successor in interest will be considered, and due consideration will be given for acts taken by that person to minimize the potential for violating the section 6112 requirements.
(2)
Review by IRS.
Whether reasonable cause exists for a period of time will be determined based on all the relevant facts and circumstances, including facts and circumstances arising after the request for the list. If a material advisor establishes that, in its efforts to comply with the provisions of section 6112 and its corresponding regulations, it acted in good faith, as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the material advisor will be deemed to have reasonable cause for the periods of time the IRS takes to review a furnished list for compliance with the section 6112 requirements and to inform the material advisor of any identified failures in the list. If the material advisor does not establish that it acted in good faith the IRS will not consider the time it takes to review the list or inform the material advisor of identified failures as a factor in determining whether the material advisor has reasonable cause for that period.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

# Example 1.
On February 2, 2017, the IRS hand delivers a list request to Firm O, a material advisor. On March 3, 2017, the 20th business day (due to the Presidents' Day holiday) after the list request is delivered to Firm O, Firm O sends a list to the IRS that was contemporaneously prepared after Firm O issued advice with respect to the reportable transaction and continuously maintained in accordance with the requirements of section 6112 and the related regulations. Before sending the list, a supervisor at Firm O carefully reviewed the list to verify that it was comprehensive and accurate. The IRS completes its review on March 23, 2017, and determines that the list is not complete because Firm O furnished a draft copy of the tax opinion, rather than the final document, which Firm O had mistakenly misfiled. After Firm O is notified of the missing information, Firm O immediately furnishes a complete copy of the final version of the tax opinion. Firm O made a good-faith effort to comply with the section 6112 requirements, including its efforts to ensure that the list that was furnished to the IRS was accurate and complete. Firm O has reasonable cause for the entire period between the expiration of the 20-business-day period following the list request and the date it furnished the complete list to the IRS.

# Example 2.
On February 2, 2017, the IRS hand delivers a list request to Firm P, a material advisor. Firm P's involvement in the reportable transaction included implementing the transaction on behalf of some but not all of Firm P's clients. On March 3, 2017, the 20th business day (due to the Presidents' Day holiday) after the list request is delivered to Firm P, Firm P sends the list to the IRS. The IRS completes its review on
March 23, 2017. The IRS believes the client list is incomplete because it does not contain information about certain individuals who were identified through other investigative means as clients of Firm P who may have engaged in the transaction. On March 27, 2017, in response to a follow-up inquiry by the IRS, Firm P establishes that it is not a material advisor with respect to these taxpayers. Therefore, the March 3, 2017 list was complete and accurate when first furnished. Under these circumstances, Firm P has timely furnished the list as required by section 6112. Because Firm P complied with the requirements of section 6112 no penalty applies, and Firm P does not need to establish reasonable cause for the period from March 4, 2017, through March 27, 2017, when the IRS was reviewing the list.

# Example 3.
On February 2, 2017, the IRS hand delivers a list request to Firm Q, a material advisor. On March 3, 2017, the 20th business day (due to the Presidents' Day holiday) after the list request is delivered to Firm Q, Firm Q sends the list to the IRS. Firm Q had not maintained a list contemporaneously after issuing the advice with respect to the reportable transaction, and created the list during the 20 business days before providing the list to the IRS. To meet the 20-business-day deadline, a supervisor did not review the final list before sending it to the IRS. The IRS completes its review on March 23, 2017, and determines that the list is not complete because it does not include 15 persons for whom Firm Q acted as a material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction. Firm Q furnishes the additional information on March 27, 2017. Because Firm Q is not able to show that it made diligent efforts to maintain the materials constituting the list in a readily accessible form and that it made a reasonable effort to ensure that the list that was furnished to the IRS was accurate and complete, Firm Q cannot establish that it exhibited a good-faith effort to comply with the section 6112 requirements. Firm Q does not have reasonable cause for its failure to furnish the complete list from March 4, 2017, through March 26, 2017.

# Example 4.
Within the 20-business-day period following a list request, Firm R sends four boxes of documents comprising the required list to the IRS using a commercial delivery service. The IRS receives only three of the boxes because box 4 was erroneously self-addressed using Firm R's office address. Box 4 arrives at Firm R's office on January 6, 2017, the 2nd calendar day after the 20th business day after the list request was made. Firm R immediately recognizes its clerical error, promptly contacts the IRS, and resends the original and unopened box 4, properly addressed, to the IRS together with documentation supporting the error. The IRS receives box 4 on January 9, 2017. Under these circumstances, Firm R has reasonable cause for the late delivery of box 4 because it made a good-faith attempt to timely comply with the list request and immediately corrected an inadvertent error upon its discovery. As a result, no penalty will be imposed based on the delay in providing box 4. If, after inspection, the IRS determines that, even with the contents of box 4, the list is incomplete or defective, Firm R must establish reasonable cause for the incomplete nature of the list or the defect to avoid imposition of a penalty for the period beginning January 5, 2017, until but not including the day that Firm R furnishes the list to the IRS.

# Example 5.
(i) Firm S is a large law firm that is a material advisor. Firm S conducts annual sessions to educate its professionals about reportable transactions and the firm's obligations related to those reportable transactions. Firm S instructs its professionals to provide information on tax engagements that involve reportable transactions and to provide the documents required to be maintained under section 6112 to Firm S's compliance officer for list maintenance purposes. Firm S's policy provides that, for each engagement involving a reportable transaction, one firm professional will send an email to the firm's compliance officer about the engagement and then direct a subordinate to send to the firm's compliance officer the documents required to be maintained.
(ii) Firm S receives a request from the IRS for a section 6112 list. In compiling its list to turn over to the IRS during the 20-business-day period, Firm S asks all professionals to ensure that they have reported all engagements involving a reportable transaction to the firm's compliance officer. Before submission to the IRS, a Firm S supervisor reviews the list to ensure completeness. Firm S has no reason to know of any deficiencies, and in compiling its list, Firm S discovers no deficiencies.
(iii) Upon review of the list, the IRS determines that the information furnished by Firm S appears to be accurate, but the IRS believes that some of the information is incomplete because it does not contain information about an individual who may have engaged in the transaction and who was identified through other investigative means as Firm S's client. In response to a follow-up inquiry by the IRS, Firm S immediately reviews its files and discovers that a former Firm S professional, who is no longer employed by Firm S, provided material advice to the individual with respect to carrying out a reportable transaction, but did not send an email to the firm's compliance officer about the transaction or direct a subordinate to send the documents required to be maintained to the firm's compliance officer. Firm S immediately furnishes the missing information and documents related to the identified omission to the IRS.
(iv) Firm S establishes that the professional in question ordinarily complied with Firm S's list maintenance procedures and that Firm S had no reason to know of this one omission or to suspect that the professional had failed to report any reportable transactions to the firm's compliance officer in accordance with the firm's policies. Firm S also immediately undertakes a thorough search of its electronic and paper files to locate any additional reportable transactions relating to the professional in question that may have been omitted from the list. Under these circumstances, Firm S has demonstrated that it has acted in good faith in its efforts to comply with section 6112 and is deemed to have reasonable cause for the period of time the IRS took to review the furnished list and to inform the material advisor of the identified failure in the list. See paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The reasonable cause exception, however, will only be available to Firm S with respect to the omission identified by the IRS for the period of time that a person who exercises ordinary business care would need to obtain the information and documents related to the identified omission. See paragraph (g)(3) of this section. With respect to any other omissions related to the same professional and not identified by the IRS, the reasonable cause exception will only be available to Firm S for the period of time that a person who exercises ordinary business care would need to ascertain whether any other reportable transactions were omitted from the list and to obtain the information and documents related to any such omissions. See paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(i)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to all requests for lists required to be maintained under section 6112, including lists that persons were required to maintain under section 6112(a) as in effect before October 22, 2004, made on or after April 28, 2016.
[T.D. 9764, 81 FR 25334, Apr. 28, 2016]
§ 301.6708-1T
Failure to maintain list of investors in potentially abusive tax shelters (temporary).
The following questions and answers issued under section 6708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as added by section 142 of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-369; 98 Stat. 683), relate to the penalty for failure to maintain a list of investors in potentially abusive tax shelters.
Q-1: What penalties are provided with respect to the failure properly to maintain a list of persons who acquire interests in potentially abusive tax shelters?
A-1: Any organizer (as defined in A-5 of § 301.6112-1T) of a tax shelter (as defined in A-3 of § 301.6112-1T) or seller (as defined in A-6 of § 301.6112-1T) of interests in a tax shelter who fails to meet any requirement imposed by section 6112 regarding the requirement to maintain a list of persons who have acquired interests in a tax shelter shall pay a penalty of $50 for each investor with respect to whom there is such a failure, unless it is shown that the failure is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. For example, if an organizer who is required to maintain a list identifying each of 100 persons who acquired interests in a tax shelter fails to maintain the list, the organizer will be liable for a penalty of $5,000 ($50 × 100 persons), unless the organizer can show the failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. As another example, if a seller is required to maintain a list identifying each of 100 persons who acquired interests in a tax shelter from the seller and fails properly to maintain such list by omitting the TIN of each person, the seller will be liable for a penalty of $5,000 ($50 × 100 persons), unless the seller can show the failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
Q-2: If an organizer or seller properly maintains a list, but fails to make the list available to the Internal Revenue Service upon request, will the organizer or seller be subject to a penalty?
A-2: Yes. A penalty applies if an organizer or seller fails to meet any requirement imposed by section 6112, including the requirement, upon request, to make the list available to the Internal Revenue Service as soon as practicable, but in any event within 10 calendar days. (See A-21 of § 301.6112-1T). The amount of the penalty is $50 for each person required to be on the list at the time of the request by the Internal Revenue Service. Assume, for example, that an organizer of a tax shelter properly maintains a list of 200 persons who have acquired interests in a tax shelter and that the Internal Revenue Service requests the organizer to provide the list. If the organizer fails
to provide the list to the Internal Revenue Service as soon as practicable (as required by A-21 of § 301.6112-1T), or in a form that enables the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the required information without undue delay or difficulty (as required by A-16 of § 301.6112-1T), the organizer will be liable for a penalty of $10,000 ($50 × 200 persons), unless the organizer can show that the failure to provide the list was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.
Q-3: If an organizer or seller is required to maintain lists for more than one tax shelter in which the same person has acquired interests, how does the penalty apply if the organizer or seller fails to identify the person on each of the lists?
A-3: A separate $50 penalty applies with respect to the list for each tax shelter on which the person who acquired interests is not identified.
Q-4: Is there a limitation on the amount of the penalty imposed on a seller or organizer required to maintain a list of persons who have acquired interests in a tax shelter?
A-4: Yes. The maximum penalty that may be imposed on a person for any calendar year may not exceed $50,000.
Q-5: How does the calendar year limitation apply?
A-5: A separate $50,000 limitation applies to each calendar year in which a failure occurs, and to each tax shelter for which a list is required to be maintained. See A-6 of this section for special rules for determining how the $50,000 limitation applies to a designated person who fails properly to maintain a list of investors.

# Example 1.
Assume that A, an organizer of a tax shelter, fails to maintain and to provide to the Internal Revenue Service a list of 900 persons who acquired interests in the tax shelter in 1986. In addition, assume that A again fails to maintain and to provide the list of 900 investors upon request in 1987. A is subject to a penalty of $45,000 (900 persons × $50) for each calendar year in which there is a failure to comply with the requirements of section 6112. Thus, A is subject to $45,000 in penalties for the failures to maintain and to provide the list in 1986, and $45,000 in penalties for the failures to maintain and to provide the list in 1987, unless A can show reasonable cause for the failures.

# Example 2.
Assume that B, an organizer of Tax Shelter I, fails to provide a list of 1,500 persons who acquired interests in the tax shelter to the Internal Revenue Service upon request in 1987. Assume also that B, an organizer of Tax Shelter II, fails to provide a list of 2,000 persons who acquired interests in Tax Shelter II to the Internal Revenue Service upon request in 1987. Because the $50,000 calendar year limitation applies separately with respect to each tax shelter for which a list must be maintained, B is subject to a penalty of $50,000 for failing to provide the list for Tax Shelter I in 1987 and a $50,000 penalty for failing to provide the list for Tax Shelter II in 1987.
Q-6: How does the penalty apply to a designated person?
A-6: Separate penalties, each with its own $50,000 calendar year limitation, apply with respect to the portion of the list kept by the designated person in that person's capacity as organizer and to each portion of the list kept by the designated person in that person's capacity as the designated person with respect to each organizer and seller who signed the agreement under A-12 of § 301.6112-1T and for whom the designated person is responsible for complying with the requirements of section 6112.

# Example.
Assume that X, an organizer and seller, sells interests in a tax shelter directly to 750 investors in 1985. In addition, assume that A, an agent of X, negotiates for X sales of interests in the tax shelter to an additional 500 persons in 1985. If no agreement to designate X is made pursuant to A-11 of § 301.6112-1T, X would be required to maintain a list of the 1,250 investors who acquired interests in the tax shelter (see paragraph (a) of A-8 of § 301.6112-1T) and A would be required to maintain a list of the 500 persons who acquired interests through A (see A-10 of § 301.6112-1T). If, therefore, neither X nor A complied with the requirements of section 6112 in 1985, X would be liable for $50,000 in penalties ($50 × 1,250 investors, subject to the $50,000 maximum) and A would be liable for $25,000 in penalties $50 × 500 investors). Assume, however, that X and A enter into a written agreement to designate X to maintain the list for the tax shelter. Pursuant to that agreement, A submits to X all of the required information regarding the sales to the 500 persons otherwise required to be maintained on A's list and provides the notice required by A-13 of § 301.6112-1T to each person. In 1986, X fails to provide any list of investors to the Internal Revenue Service upon request. For calendar year 1986, X is liable for penalties of $50,000 in X's capacity as an organizer ($50 × 1,250 persons, subject to the $50,000 maximum). In addition, X, as the person designated to maintain the list for A, is
liable for penalties of $25,000 for failing properly to maintain A's list of investors ($50 × 500 persons). A would not be liable for any penalties.
Q-7: If an organizer or seller is subject to a penalty with respect to a tax shelter under section 6708, may the organizer or seller also be liable for other fines or penalties with respect to the tax shelter?
A-7: Yes. The penalty imposed by section 6708 is in addition to any other penalty provided by law. If, for example, an organizer of a tax shelter is subject to a penalty under section 6700 for promoting an abusive tax shelter, the organizer also would be liable for any applicable penalties for failing properly to maintain a list for the tax shelter. Similarly, if an organizer or seller fails to furnish a list upon request by the Internal Revenue Service, the organizer or seller may be subject both to the fine under section 7203 for the willful failure to supply information, and to the penalty for failing properly to maintain a list for the tax shelter.
Q-8: When is the penalty under section 6708 effective?
A-8: The penalty under section 6708 applies with respect to any interest in a tax shelter which is required to be included on a list under section 6112. See A-22 of § 301.6112-1T.
(Secs. 6112 and 7805, Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (98 Stat. 681; 68A Stat. 917; 26 U.S.C. 6112 and 7805))
[T.D. 7969, 49 FR 34204, Aug. 29, 1984]
§ 301.6712-1
Failure to disclose treaty-based return positions.
(a)
Penalty imposed.
A taxpayer who fails in a material way to disclose one or more positions taken for a taxable year, as required by section 6114 and the regulations thereunder, is subject to a separate penalty for each failure to disclose a position taken with respect to each separate payment or separate income item in the amount of—
(1) For a corporation taxable as such under the Code $10,000; or
(2) For all other taxpayers, $1,000.
The penalty imposed by this section may be imposed more than once for a single taxable year if a taxpayer has failed to disclose one or more positions taken with respect to more than one separate payment or separate income item and may be imposed in addition to any other penalty imposed by law. For this purpose, separate payments or income items of the same type (e.g., interest payments) received from the same ultimate payor (e.g., the obligor on the note) will be treated as separate payments or income items (and not aggregated). However, for purposes of determining the number of separate penalties to be imposed under this section, the District Director shall have the discretion to aggregate separate payments or income items, in whole or in part, in accordance with the rules for aggregation of such items for purposes of reporting, as described in § 301.6114-1(d).
(b)
Penalty waived.
Pursuant to the authority contained in section 6712(b) of the Code, the penalty imposed by paragraph (a) of this section may be waived, in whole or in part, if it is established to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner (International), the District Director or the Director of the Internal Revenue Service Center that the taxpayer's failure to disclose the required information was not due to willful neglect. An affirmative showing of lack of willful neglect must be made in the form of a written statement that sets forth all the facts alleged to show lack of willful neglect and contains a declaration by such person that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury.
(c)
Manner of payment.
The penalty set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand thereof.
(d)
Effective date.
This section is effective for taxable years of the taxpayer for which the due date for filing returns (without extension) occurs after December 31, 1988.
[T.D. 8292, 55 FR 9441, Mar. 14, 1990]
§ 301.6721-0
Table of Contents.
In order to facilitate the use of §§ 301.6721-1 through 301.6724-1, this section lists the paragraph headings contained in these sections.

# § 301.6721-1 Failure to file correct information returns.
(a) Imposition of penalty.
(1) General rule.
(2) Failures subject to the penalty.
(b) Reduction in the penalty when a correction is made within specified periods.
(1) Correction within 30 days.
(2) Correction after 30 days but on or before August 1.
(3) Required filing date defined.
(4) Penalty amount for return with multiple failures.
(5) Examples.
(6) Application to returns not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15.
(c) Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions.
(1) In General.
(2) Errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
(3) Examples.
(d) Exception for a
de minimis
number of failures.
(1) Requirements.
(2) Calculation of the
de minimis
exception.
(3) Examples.
(4) Nonapplication to returns not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15.
(e) Safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors.
(1) In general.
(2) Definition of de minimis error.
(3) Election to override the safe harbor exception.
(4) Voluntary corrections.
(5) Limitations on applicability.
(f) Lower limitations on the $250,000 maximum penalty amount with respect to persons with gross receipts of not more than $5,000,000.
(1) In general.
(2) Gross receipts test.
(g) Higher penalty for intentional disregard of requirement to file timely correct information returns.
(1) Application of section 6721(e).
(2) Meaning of “Intentional disregard.”
(3) Facts and circumstances considered.
(4) Amount of the penalty.
(5) Computation of the penalty; aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly.
(6) Examples.
(h) Definitions.
(1) Information return.
(2) Statements.
(3) Returns.
(4) Other items.
(5) Payee.
(6) Filer.
(i) Adjustment for inflation.
(j) Applicability date.

# § 301.6722-1 Failure to furnish correct payee statements.
(a) Imposition of penalty.
(1) General rule.
(2) Failures subject to the penalty.
(b) Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions.
(1) In general.
(2) Errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
(3) Examples.
(c) Higher penalty for intentional disregard of requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements.
(1) Application of section 6722(c).
(2) Amount of the penalty.
(3) Computation of the penalty; aggregate dollar amount of items required to be shown correctly.
(d) Safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors.
(1) In general.
(2) Definition of de minimis error.
(3) Election to override the safe harbor exception.
(4) Record retention.
(5) Examples.
(6) Voluntary corrections.
(7) Limitations on applicability.
(e) Definitions.
(1) Payee.
(2) Payee statement.
(3) Other items.
(4) Filer.
(f) Adjustment for inflation.
(g) Applicability date.

# § 301.6723-1 Failure to comply with other information reporting requirements.
(a) Imposition of penalty.
(1) General rule.
(2) Failures subject to the penalty.
(3) Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions.
(4) Specified information reporting requirement defined.
(b) Examples.

# § 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
(a) Waiver of the penalty.
(1) General rule.
(2) Reasonable cause defined.
(b) Significant mitigating factors.
(c) Events beyond the filer's control.
(1) In general.
(2) Unavailability of the relevant business records.
(3) Undue economic hardship relating to filing on magnetic media.
(4) Actions of the IRS.
(5) Actions of agent—imputed reasonable cause.
(6) Actions of the payee or any other person.
(d) Responsible manner.
(1) In general.
(2) Special rule for filers seeking a waiver pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(e) Acting in a responsible manner—special rules for missing TINs.
(1) In general.
(i) Initial solicitation.
(ii) First annual solicitation.
(iii) Second annual solicitation.
(iv) Additional requirements.
(v) Failures to which a solicitation relates.
(vi) Exceptions and limitations.
(2) Manner of making annual solicitations—by mail or telephone.
(i) By mail.
(ii) By telephone.
(f) Acting in a responsible manner—special rules for incorrect TINs.
(1) In general.
(i) Initial solicitation.
(ii) First annual solicitation.
(iii) Second annual solicitation.
(iv) Additional requirements.
(2) Manner of making annual solicitation if notified pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B) and the regulations thereunder.
(3) Manner of making annual solicitation if notified pursuant to section 6721.
(4) Failures to which a solicitation relates.
(5) Exceptions and limitations.
(g) Due diligence safe harbor.
(1) In general.
(2) Special rules relating to TINs.
(3) Effective dates.
(h) Reasonable cause safe harbor after election under section 6722(c)(3)(B).
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Failures to which this section relates.
(k) Examples.
(l) [Reserved]
(m) Procedure for seeking a waiver.
(n) Manner of payment.
(o) Applicability dates.
[T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991, as amended by T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53496, Oct. 14, 1997; T.D. 9984, 88 FR 87700, Dec. 19, 2023; 89 FR 20317, Mar. 22, 2024]
§ 301.6721-1
Failure to file correct information returns.
(a)
Imposition of penalty
—(1)
General rule.
A penalty of $250 is imposed for each
information return
(as defined in section 6724(d)(1) and paragraph (h) of this section) with respect to which a
failure
(as defined in section 6721(a)(2) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section) occurs. No more than one penalty will be imposed under this paragraph (a)(1) with respect to a single information return even though there may be more than one failure with respect to such return. The total amount imposed on any person for all failures during any calendar year with respect to all information returns will not exceed $3,000,000.
See
paragraph (b) of this section for a reduction in the penalty if the failures are corrected within specified periods.
See
paragraph (c) of this section for an exception to the penalty for inconsequential errors or omissions.
See
paragraph (d) of this section for an exception to the penalty for a de minimis number of failures.
See
paragraph (e) of this section for a safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors.
See
paragraph (f) of this section for lower limitations to the $3,000,000 maximum penalty.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for higher penalties if a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to file timely correct information returns.
See
paragraph (i) of this section for inflation adjustments to penalty amounts.
See
§ 301.6724-1(a)(1) for waiver of the penalty for a failure that is due to reasonable cause.
(2)
Failures subject to the penalty.
The failures to which section 6721(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply are—
(i) A failure to file an information return on or before the required filing date (“failure to file timely”), and
(ii) A failure to include all the information required to be shown on the return or including incorrect information (failure to include correct information). A failure to file timely includes a failure to file in the required manner, for example, electronically or in other machine-readable form as provided under section 6011(e). However, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section solely by reason of any failure to comply with the requirements of section 6011(e)(2), except to the extent that the failure occurs with respect to more than 10 returns, or with respect to a return described in section 6011(e)(4). If a partnership return under section 6031(a) is required to be filed electronically, each schedule required to be included with such return with respect to each partner will be treated as a separate information return for purposes of this section. See section 6724(e). Filers who are required to file information returns electronically and who file those information returns electronically are considered to have satisfied the electronic-filing requirement. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) or (e)(1) of this section, a failure to include correct information encompasses a failure to include the
information required by applicable information-reporting statutes or by any administrative pronouncements (such as regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, or information-reporting forms, and form instructions). A failure to include information in the correct format may be either a failure to file timely an information return or a failure to include correct information on an information return. For example, an error on an electronic submission to the Internal Revenue Service that prevents processing by the Internal Revenue Service may constitute a failure to file timely. However, if information is set forth on the wrong field of the electronic submission, that error may constitute a failure to file timely or a failure to include correct information, depending upon the extent of the failure. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a failure to file corrected information returns in the format required under § 301.6011-2(c)(4)(ii) is a failure to correct the corresponding original information returns.
(b)
Reduction in the penalty when a correction is made within specified periods
—(1)
Correction within 30 days.
The penalty imposed under section 6721(a) for a failure to file timely or for a failure to include correct information will be $50 in lieu of $250 if the failure is corrected on or before the 30th day after the required filing date (corrected within 30 days). The total amount imposed on a person for all failures during any calendar year that are corrected within 30 days will not exceed $500,000.
(2)
Correction after 30 days but on or before August 1.
The penalty imposed under section 6721(a) for a failure to file timely or for a failure to include correct information will be $100 in lieu of $250 if the failure is corrected after the 30-day period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section but on or before August 1 of the year in which the required filing date occurs (corrected after 30 days but on or before August 1).
See
paragraph (b)(6) of this section for an exception to the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) for returns that are not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15. The total amount imposed on a person for all failures during any calendar year corrected after 30 days but on or before August 1 will not exceed $1,500,000.
(3)
Required filing date defined.
The term “required filing date” means the date prescribed for filing an information return with the IRS (or the Social Security Administration in the case of Forms W-2) determined with regard to any extension of time for filing.
(4)
Penalty amount for return with multiple failures.
If a return is subject to a penalty for more than one failure, and the penalty amounts for the failures differ, the higher penalty amount will be imposed.
(5)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) through (4) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. These examples do not take into account any possible application of the de minimis exception under paragraph (d) of this section, the safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors under paragraph (e) of this section, the lower small business limitations under paragraph (f) of this section, the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (g) of this section, adjustments for inflation under paragraph (i) of this section, or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):
(i)
Example 1.
Corporation R fails to file timely 23,000 Forms 1099-MISC,
Miscellaneous Information,
for the 2023 calendar year. Of the forms filed, 5,000 are filed with correct information within 30 days, and 18,000 after 30 days but on or before August 1, 2024. For the same year R fails to file timely 400 Forms 1099-INT,
Interest Income,
which R eventually files on September 28, 2024, after the period for reduction of the penalty has elapsed. R is subject to a penalty of $100,000 for the 400 forms that were not filed by August 1 ($250 × 400 = $100,000), $1,500,000 for the 18,000 forms filed after 30 days ($100 × 18,000 = $1,800,000, limited to $1,500,000 under paragraph (b)(2) of this section), and $250,000 for the 5,000 forms filed within 30 days ($50 × 5,000 = $250,000), for a total penalty of $1,850,000.
(ii)
Example 2.
Corporation T fails to file timely 14,000 Forms 1099-MISC for the 2023 calendar year. T files the 14,000 Forms 1099-MISC on September 3, 2024. Because T does not correct the failure
by August 1, 2024, T is subject to a penalty of $3,000,000, the maximum penalty under paragraph (a) of this section. Without the limitation of paragraph (a) of this section, T would be subject to a $3,500,000 penalty ($250 × 14,000 = $3,500,000).
(iii)
Example 3.
In calendar year 2024, Corporation U timely files on paper 12 Forms 1099-MISC for the 2023 calendar year with correct information. Under § 301.6011-2, a person required to file at least 10 returns during calendar year 2024 must file those returns electronically. Corporation U does not correct its failures to file these returns electronically by August 1, 2024. See section 6721(b)(2). Corporation U is therefore subject to a penalty for a failure to file timely under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. However, under section 6724(c) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the penalty for a failure to file timely electronically applies only to the extent the number of returns exceeds 10. As Corporation U was required to file 12 returns electronically, it is subject to a penalty of $500 for two returns ($250 × 2 = $500).
(iv)
Example 4.
In calendar year 2024, Corporation W timely electronically files 25 Forms 1099-B (relating to proceeds from broker and barter exchange transactions) with incorrect information. On August 1, 2024, Corporation W discovers the errors and files 25 corrected Forms 1099-B on paper. Under § 301.6011-2(c)(4)(ii)(A), a person required to file an original information return covered by § 301.6011-2(b) electronically must file any corrected information return corresponding to that original return electronically. Under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a failure to file a corrected information return electronically when required to do so is a failure to correct the corresponding original information return. As Corporation W was required to file its 25 corrected information returns electronically, it has failed to correct the original information returns and is subject to a penalty of $6,250 for failure to include correct information on its 25 original Forms 1099-B ($250 × 25 = $6,250), without any reductions for correcting the information on or before August 1.
(v)
Example 5.
During the 2024 calendar year, Corporation V files 25 Forms 1099-B (relating to proceeds from broker and barter exchange transactions) on paper. The forms were filed on March 15, 2024, rather than on the required filing date of February 28, 2024. Under § 301.6011-2, a person required to file at least 10 returns during calendar years 2024 and after must file those returns electronically. Corporation V does not correctly file these returns electronically by August 1, 2024. See section 6721(b)(2). Corporation V is subject to a penalty of $500 for filing 10 of the returns late, but within 30 days after the required filing date ($50 × 10). In addition, Corporation V is subject to a penalty of $3,750 for failing to file 15 returns electronically ($250 × 15).
(vi)
Example 6.
Partnership X has 120 partners in calendar year 2023. In calendar year 2024, it timely filed on paper its 2023 Form 1065 and 230 accompanying Schedules K-1 and Schedules K-3 (120 Schedules K-1 and 110 Schedules K-3). Partnership X filed no other returns during calendar year 2024. Under § 301.6011-3(a)(1)(ii), a partnership with more than 100 partners must electronically file its partnership return, including Schedules K-1 and K-3. Under section 6724(e), Schedules K-1 and K-3 are treated as separate information returns for purposes of penalties under section 6721, even though they are not listed under § 301.6011-2(b) as information returns required to be filed electronically and are not defined as information returns under section 6724(d). Under section 6724(c) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the penalty for a failure to file timely electronically applies only to the extent the number of returns exceeds 10. Partnership X would be subject to a penalty of $55,000 for failing to electronically file 220 Schedules K-1 and K-3 required to be included with the partnership return: the 11th through the 230th of the required schedules ($250 × 220 = $55,000). See section 6698 for the penalty for the failure to file the partnership return.
(6)
Application to returns not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15.
For returns that are not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15 (for example, a Form 8300,
Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received in a Trade or
Business
), the penalty is $50 if the failure is corrected within 30 days. If the failure is corrected after 30 days, the penalty is $250 rather than $100. There is no period during which the penalty is reduced to $100 under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions
—(1)
In general.
An inconsequential error or omission is not considered a failure to include correct information. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), the term
inconsequential error or omission
means any failure that does not prevent or hinder the IRS from processing the return, from correlating the information required to be shown on the return with the information shown on the payee's tax return, or from otherwise putting the return to its intended use.
See
paragraph (h)(5) of this section for the definition of
payee.
(2)
Errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
Errors or omissions relating to the following are never inconsequential—
(i) A taxpayer identification number;
(ii) A surname of a payee (
i.e.,
the person required to be furnished a copy of the information set forth on an information return); and
(iii) Any monetary amounts, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. The IRS may, by administrative pronouncement, specify other types of errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not take into account any possible application of the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (g) of this section or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):
(i)
Example 1.
A filer files a Form 1099-MISC (relating to miscellaneous income) with the IRS. The Form 1099-MISC is complete and correct except that the word “street” is misspelled in the payee's address. The error does not prevent or hinder the IRS from processing the return, from correlating the information required to be shown on the return with the information shown on the payee's tax return, or from otherwise putting the return to its intended use. Therefore, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Example 2.
A filer files a Form 1099-MISC with the IRS. The Form 1099-MISC is complete and correct except that the payee's first name, William, is misspelled as “Willaim.” The error does not prevent or hinder the IRS from processing the return, from correlating the information required to be shown on the return with the information shown on the payee's tax return, or from otherwise putting the return to its intended use. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Therefore, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(iii)
Example 3.
A filer files a Form 1099-MISC with the IRS. The Form 1099-MISC is complete and correct except that the payee's name, “John Doe,” is misspelled as “John Ode.” Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, supplying an incorrect surname for a payee is never considered an inconsequential error. Therefore, a penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Exception for a de minimis number of failures
—(1)
Requirements.
The penalty under paragraph (a) of this section is not imposed for a de minimis number of failures to include correct information if the filer corrects such failures on or before August 1 of the year in which the required filing date occurs.
See
paragraph (d)(4) of this section for special rules relating to returns that are not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15.
(2)
Calculation of the de minimis exception.
The number of returns to which the de minimis exception in this paragraph (d) applies for any calendar year will not exceed the greater of 10 or one-half of one percent of the total number of all information returns the filer is required to file during the year. If the number of returns on which the filer fails to include correct information exceeds the number of returns to which the de minimis exception applies, the de minimis exception applies to those returns that will afford the filer the greatest reduction in penalty. The de minimis exception applies to failures to include correct information that exist after the application (if any) of the safe harbor exception for certain de
minimis errors under paragraph (e) of this section and after the application (if any) of the waiver for reasonable cause under section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1. Returns to which the de minimis exception applies are treated as having been originally filed with correct information.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (d) may be illustrated by the following examples. In each of the examples, the failures to file and to include correct information are subject to penalty under paragraph (a) of this section. The examples do not take into account any possible application of the safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors under paragraph (e) of this section, the lower small business limitations under paragraph (f) of this section, the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (g) of this section, any adjustment for inflation under paragraph (i) of this section, or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a).
(i)
Example 1.
Corporation T files timely 10,000 Forms 1099-INT,
Interest Income,
for 2023 by February 28, 2024. The 10,000 forms are all the information returns that T is required to file during the 2024 calendar year. Of the forms filed, 70 contained incorrect information. T corrects the failures on July 12, 2024. No penalty is imposed for 50 of the failures (that is, the greater of 10 or .005 × 10,000 = 50) even though the total failures, 70, exceed the number to which the de minimis exception may apply. The $100 penalty under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is imposed, in lieu of $250, for the remaining 20 failures, which were corrected after 30 days but before August 1, resulting in a total penalty of $2,000 ($100 × 20 = $2,000).
(ii)
Example 2.
Corporation U files timely 9,500 Forms 1099-INT for 2023 by February 28, 2024. Fifty of these returns contain incorrect information with respect to which U files correct information on August 1, 2024. U also files 500 Forms 1099-INT for 2023 on August 30, 2024, after the required filing date. The 10,000 returns are all the information returns that U is required to file during the 2024 calendar year. The calculation of the de minimis exception is based on the 10,000 returns required to be filed during the 2024 calendar year even though 500 of the returns filed during the year were not filed timely. Therefore, the number of failures for which the de minimis exception applies is 50, and accordingly no penalty is imposed for the 50 Forms 1099-INT that were corrected on August 1. However, the $250 penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is imposed for each failure to file timely (that is, the de minimis exception does not apply to this penalty for failure to file timely), resulting in a total penalty of $125,000 ($250 × 500 = $125,000).
(iii)
Example 3.
Corporation V files timely 9,950 Forms 1099-INT for 2023 by February 28, 2024. However, V fails to file timely 50 of its Forms 1099-INT. The 10,000 returns are all the information returns that V is required to file during the 2024 calendar year. Upon discovering the error, V files the 50 returns within 30 days of February 28, 2024. The 50 returns are complete and correct except that V fails to include the taxpayer identification numbers of the payees on the returns. V files corrected returns on August 1, 2024. Absent application of the de minimis exception, the penalty imposed for the failure to include correct information would be $5,000 ($100 × 50 = $5,000). Because the incorrect returns are corrected on August 1, the 50 forms are treated under the de minimis exception as originally filed with correct information, and therefore no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section for the failure to include correct information. Nevertheless, the penalty under paragraph (a) of this section is imposed for the failure to file timely the 50 returns because the de minimis exception does not apply to the penalty for the failure to file timely. Hence, a penalty of $2,500 ($50 × 50 = $2,500) is imposed.
(iv)
Example 4.
Corporation W files timely 100 Forms 1099-DIV and files an additional 50 Forms 1099-DIV late, but within 30 days of February 28, 2024. These are all the information returns that W was required to file during the 2024 calendar year. W discovers errors on 10 of the returns that were filed timely, and on 5 of the returns that were filed late. W corrects all the errors on August 1, 2024. The de minimis
exception applies to 10 of the corrected returns. The exception will be allocated to the 10 returns that were filed timely with incorrect information, because that allocation is most favorable to W (that is, applying the exception to a return filed late with incorrect information would save W $50, by reducing the penalty on that return from $100 to $50, but applying the exception to a return filed timely would save W $100, by reducing the penalty on that return from $100 to $0). (
See
paragraph (b)(4) of this section.)
(4)
Nonapplication to returns not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15.
The exception for a de minimis number of failures provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply to failures with respect to returns that are not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15 (for example, Forms 8300 reporting certain cash payments of $10,000 or more). Nevertheless, the returns that are not due on January 31, February 28, or March 15 are included in the total number of all information returns that the filer is required to file during a year for purposes of calculating the number of the returns subject to the de minimis exception under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) or (g)(4) of this section, the penalty under section 6721(a) and paragraph (a) of this section is not imposed for a failure described in section 6721(a)(2)(B) and paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section (failure to include correct information on information return) if the failure relates to an incorrect dollar amount and is a de minimis error. If the safe harbor in this paragraph (e) applies to an information return and the information return was otherwise correct and timely filed, no correction is required and, for purposes of this section, the information return is treated as having been filed with all of the correct required information.
(2)
Definition of de minimis error.
For the definition of
de minimis error, see
§ 301.6722-1(d)(2).
(3)
Election to override the safe harbor exception.
The safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply to any information return if the incorrect dollar amount that would qualify as a de minimis error for purposes of this paragraph (e) relates to an amount with respect to which an election has been made (and has not been revoked) under section 6722(c)(3)(B) and § 301.6722-1(d)(3).
See
§ 301.6722-1(d)(3) for additional rules relating to the election under section 6722(c)(3)(B) and § 301.6722-1(d)(3), including rules relating to the revocation of the election and the inapplicability of the election to certain information.
See
§ 301.6724-1(h) for rules relating to waiver of the section 6721 penalty in cases where the safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply because of an election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3).
(4)
Voluntary corrections.
Regardless of whether the de minimis error safe harbor in this paragraph (e) provides an exception for not filing a particular corrected information return, the corrected information return may be filed voluntarily if a corresponding payee statement reflecting the information shown on the corrected information return is concurrently furnished to the payee.
(5)
Limitations on applicability.
The safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (e)(1) of this section applies only for the purposes of information return penalties under section 6721. Accordingly, this safe harbor exception applies to the reporting of amounts on information returns, including the reporting of the withholding of tax on information returns, but it does not apply for purposes of any underlying requirements to withhold or pay tax. Interest, penalties, and other additions to tax may be imposed under other sections for under-withholding or underpaying tax in any amount.
(f)
Lower limitations on the $250,000 maximum penalty amount with respect to persons with gross receipts of not more than $5,000,000
—(1)
In general.
If a person meets the
gross receipts test
(as defined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section) for any calendar year, the total amount of the penalty imposed on the person for all failures described in section 6721(a)(2) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section during the calendar year will not exceed $1,000,000. The total amount of the penalty imposed under
paragraph (b)(1) of this section for failures corrected within 30 days will not exceed $175,000 for the calendar year. The total amount of the penalty imposed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for failures corrected after 30 days but on or before August 1 will not exceed $500,000 for the calendar year.
(2)
Gross receipts test.
A person meets the gross receipts test for any calendar year if the average annual gross receipts for such person for the three most recent taxable years ending before such calendar year do not exceed $5,000,000. For purposes of determining the amount of gross receipts during the three most recent taxable years, the rules of section 448(c) (2) and (3) shall apply.
(g)
Higher penalty for intentional disregard of requirement to file timely correct information returns
—(1)
Application of section 6721(e).
If a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to file timely or to include correct information on a return as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the amount of the penalty imposed under paragraph (a) of this section must be determined under paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(2)
Meaning of “intentional disregard.”
A failure is due to intentional disregard if it is a knowing or willful—
(i) Failure to file timely, or
(ii) Failure to include correct information. Whether a person knowingly or willfully fails to file timely or fails to include correct information is determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances in the particular case.
(3)
Facts and circumstances considered.
The facts and circumstances that are considered in determining whether a failure is due to intentional disregard include, but are not limited to—
(i) Whether the failure to file timely or the failure to include correct information is part of a pattern of conduct by the person who filed the return of repeatedly failing to file timely or repeatedly failing to include correct information;
(ii) Whether correction was promptly made upon discovery of the failure;
(iii) Whether the filer corrects a failure to file or a failure to include correct information within 30 days after the date of any written request from the IRS to file or to correct; and
(iv) Whether the amount of the information reporting penalties is less than the cost of complying with the requirement to file timely or to include correct information on an information return.
(4)
Amount of the penalty.
If one or more failures to file timely or to include correct information are due to intentional disregard of the requirement to file timely or to include correct information, then, with respect to each failure determined under this paragraph (g)—
(i) Paragraphs (b), (d), (e), and (f) of this section will not apply;
(ii) The $3,000,000 limitation under paragraph (a) of this section will not apply, and the penalty under this paragraph (g) will not be taken into account in applying the $3,000,000 limitation (or any similar limitation under paragraph (b) or (f) of this section) to penalties not determined under this paragraph (g);
(iii) The penalty imposed under paragraph (a) of this section will be $500 or, if greater, the statutory percentage; and
(iv) The term
statutory percentage
means—
(A) In the case of a return other than a return required under section 6045(a), 6041A(b), 6050H, 6050I, 6050J, 6050K, 6050L, or 6050V, 10 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly;
(B) In the case of a return required to be filed by section 6045(a), 6050K, or 6050L, 5 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly;
(C) In the case of a return required to be filed under section 6050I(a), for any transaction (or related transactions), the greater of $25,000 or the amount of cash (within the meaning of section 6050I(d)) received in such transaction to the extent the amount of such cash does not exceed $100,000; or
(D) In the case of a return required to be filed under section 6050V, 10 percent of the value of the benefit of any contract with respect to which information is required to be included on the return.
(5)
Computation of the penalty; aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly.
The aggregate dollar amount used in computing the penalty under this paragraph (g) is the amount that is not reported or is reported incorrectly. If the intentional disregard relates to a dollar amount, the statutory percentage is applied to the difference between the dollar amount reported and the amount required to be reported correctly. If the intentional disregard relates to any other item on the return, the statutory percentage is applied to the aggregate amount of items required to be reported correctly. In determining the aggregate amount of items required to be reported correctly, no item will be taken into account more than once. For example, if a filer willfully fails to file a Form 1099-INT,
Interest Income,
on which $800 of interest and $160 of Federal income tax withheld (that is, backup withholding) is required to be reported, only the $800 amount is taken into account in computing the penalty.
(6)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (g) may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not take into account any adjustments for inflation under paragraph (i) of this section:
(i)
Example 1.
On December 1, 2023, Automobile dealer P receives $55,000 from an individual for the purchase of an automobile in a transaction subject to reporting under section 6050I. The individual presents documents to P that identify him as
John Doe.
However, P completes the Form 8300 (relating to cash payments over $10,000 received in a trade or business) and reflects the name of a cartoon character as the filer. Because P knew at the time of filing the Form 8300 that the filer's name was not the name of the cartoon character, he willfully failed to include correct information as described under paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Therefore, the penalty under paragraph (g)(4) of this section is imposed for the intentional disregard of the requirement to include correct information. The amount used in computing the penalty under paragraph (g)(5) of this section is $55,000 (that is, the amount required to be reported on the return with respect to which the payee is not correctly identified). The amount of the penalty determined under paragraph (g)(4)(iv)(C) of this section is $55,000 (that is, the greater of $25,000 or the amount of cash received in the transaction up to $100,000).
(ii)
Example 2.
On December 1, 2023, Individual B contacts his agent, F, to act as his intermediary in the purchase of an automobile. B gives F $20,000 and requests F to purchase the automobile in F's name, which F does. F prepares the Form 8300 as required under section 6050I, but in the area designated for the name of the filer, F writes
confidential.
Because F knew at the time the return was filed that it contained incomplete information, the penalty under paragraph (g)(4) of this section is imposed for the intentional disregard of the requirement to include correct information. The amount used in computing the penalty under paragraph (g)(5) of this section is $20,000 (that is, the amount required to be reported on the return with respect to which the payee is not correctly identified). The amount of the penalty determined under paragraph (g)(4)(iv)(C) of this section is $25,000 (that is, the greater of $25,000 or the amount of cash received in the transaction up to $100,000).
(iii)
Example 3.
Corporation M deliberately does not include $5,000 of dividends on a Form 1099-DIV,
Dividends and Distributions,
on which a total of $200,000 (including the $5,000 dividends) is required to be reported under section 6042(a). Because the failure was deliberate, M's failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to include correct information. Accordingly, the amount of the penalty imposed under paragraph (a) of this section is determined under paragraph (g)(4) of this section. Because the Form 1099-DIV is required to be filed under section 6042(a), under paragraph (g)(4)(iv)(A) of this section the amount of the penalty with respect to such failure is 10 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items that were required to be but that were not reported correctly. Under paragraph (g)(5) of this section, $5,000 is the difference between the dollar amount reported and the amount required to be reported correctly. Therefore, the amount of the penalty is $500 ($5,000 × 0.10 = $500).
(iv)
Example 4.
Form 8027,
Employer's Annual Information Return of Tip Income and Allocated Tips,
requires certain large food and beverage establishments to report certain information with respect to tips. The form requires (among other things) that the establishment report its gross receipts from food and beverage operations. Establishment A, in intentional disregard of the information reporting requirement, reported gross receipts of $1,000,000, when the correct amount was $1,500,000. The significance of the gross receipts reporting requirement is that section 6053(c)(3)(A) requires an establishment to allocate as tips among its employees the excess of 8 percent of its gross receipts over the aggregate amount reported by employees to the establishment as tips under section 6053(a). A's misstatement of its gross receipts caused A to show $80,000 on the Form 8027 as 8 percent of its gross receipts, rather than the correct amount of $120,000. A correctly reported the amount of tips reported to it by employees under section 6053(a) as $80,000. Thus, A reported the excess of 8 percent of its gross receipts over tips reported to it as zero, rather than as the correct amount of $40,000. The requirement of reporting gross receipts is considered merely a step in the computation of the excess of 8 percent of gross receipts over tips reported to A under section 6053(a), so that the penalty for intentional disregard will be $4,000 (that is, 10 percent of the difference between the $40,000 required to be reported as the excess of 8 percent of gross receipts over tips reported under section 6053(a), and the zero amount actually reported).
(h)
Definitions
—(1)
Information return.
For purposes of this section, the term
information return
has the same meaning as
information return
as defined in section 6724(d)(1), including any statement described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, any return described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and any other items described in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
(2)
Statements.
The statements subject to this section are the statements required by—
(i) Section 6041(a) or (b) (relating to certain information at source, generally reported on Form 1099-MISC, “Miscellaneous Income”; Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement”; Form W-2G, “Certain Gambling Winnings”; and Form 1099-INT, “Interest Income”);
(ii) Section 6042(a)(1) (relating to payments of dividends, generally reported on Form 1099-DIV, “Dividends and Distributions”);
(iii) Section 6044(a)(1) (relating to payments of patronage dividends, generally reported on Form 1099-PATR, “Taxable Distributions Received From Cooperatives”);
(iv) Section 6049(a) (relating to payments of interest, generally reported on Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID, “Original Issue Discount”);
(v) Section 6050A(a) (relating to reporting requirements of certain fishing boat operators, generally reported on Form 1099-MISC);
(vi) Section 6050N(a) (relating to payments of royalties, generally reported on Form 1099-MISC);
(vii) Section 6051(d) (relating to information returns with respect to income tax withheld, generally reported on Form W-2);
(viii) Section 6050R (relating to returns relating to certain purchases of fish, generally reported on Form 1099-MISC);
(ix) Section 110(d) (relating to qualified lessee construction allowances for short-term leases, generally reported by attaching a statement to an income tax return);
(x) Section 408(i) (relating to reports with respect to individual retirement accounts or annuities on Form 1099-R,
Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc.
);
(xi) Section 6047(d) (relating to reports by employers, plan administrators, etc., on Form 1099-R); or
(xii) Section 6035 (relating to basis information with respect to property acquired from a decedent, generally Form 8971,
Information Regarding Beneficiaries Acquiring Property from a Decedent
), whether an initial or supplemental information return.
(3)
Returns.
The returns subject to this section are the returns required by—
(i) Section 6041A(a) or (b) (relating to returns of direct sellers, generally reported on Form 1099-MISC);
(ii) Section 6043A(a) (relating to returns relating to taxable mergers and acquisitions);
(iii) Section 6045(a) or (d) of the Code (relating to returns of brokers, generally reported on Form 1099-B,
Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions,
for broker transactions not involving digital assets; Form 1099-DA,
Digital Asset Proceeds from Broker Transactions
for broker transactions involving digital assets; Form 1099-S,
Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions,
for gross proceeds from the sale or exchange of real estate; and Form 1099-MISC,
Miscellaneous Income,
for certain substitute payments and payments to attorneys); and
(iv) Section 6045B(a) (relating to returns relating to actions affecting basis of specified securities);
(v) Section 6050H(a) or (h)(1) (relating to mortgage interest received in trade or business from individuals, generally reported on Form 1098, “Mortgage Interest Statement”);
(vi) Section 6050I(a) or (g)(1) (relating to cash received in trade or business, etc., generally reported on Form 8300, “Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received In a Trade or Business”);
(vii) Section 6050J(a) (relating to foreclosures and abandonments of security, generally reported on Form 1099-A, “Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property”);
(viii) Section 6050K(a) (relating to exchanges of certain partnership interests, generally reported on Form 8308, “Report of a Sale or Exchange of Certain Partnership Interests”);
(ix) Section 6050L(a) (relating to returns relating to certain dispositions of donated property, generally reported on Form 8282, “Donee Information Return”);
(x) Section 6050P (relating to returns relating to the cancellation of indebtedness by certain financial entities, generally reported on Form 1099-C, “Cancellation of Debt”);
(xi) Section 6050Q (relating to certain long-term care benefits, generally reported on Form 1099-LTC, “Long-Term Care and Accelerated Death Benefits”);
(xii) Section 6050S (relating to returns relating to payments for qualified tuition and related expenses, generally reported on Form 1098-E, “Student Loan Interest Statement,” or Form 1098-T, “Tuition Statement”);
(xiii) Section 6050T (relating to returns relating to credit for health insurance costs of eligible individuals, generally reported on Form 1099-H, “Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) Advance Payments”);
(xiv) Section 6052(a) (relating to reporting payment of wages in the form of group-life insurance, generally reported on Form W-2);
(xv) Section 6050V (relating to returns relating to applicable insurance contracts in which certain exempt organizations hold interests, generally reported on Form 8921, “Applicable Insurance Contract Information Return”);
(xvi) Section 6053(c)(1) (relating to reporting with respect to certain tips, generally reported on Form 8027, “Employer's Annual Information Return of Tip Income and Allocated Tips”);
(xvii) Section 1060(b) (relating to reporting requirements of transferors and transferees in certain asset acquisitions, generally reported on Form 8594,
Asset Acquisition Statement
), or section 1060(e) (relating to information required in the case of certain transfers of interests in entities);
(xviii) Section 4101(d) (relating to information reporting with respect to fuel oils);
(xix) Section 338(h)(10)(C) (relating to information required to be furnished to the Secretary in case of elective recognition of gain or loss (effective for acquisitions after October 9, 1990, except any acquisition pursuant to a written binding contract in effect on October 9, 1990, and at all times thereafter before such acquisition));
(xx) Section 264(f)(5)(A)(iv) (relating to reporting with respect to certain life insurance and annuity contracts);
(xxi) Section 6050U (relating to charges or payments for qualified long-term care insurance contracts under combined arrangements, generally reported on Form 1099-R);
(xxii) Section 6039(a) (relating to returns required with respect to certain options);
(xxiii) Section 6050W (relating to information returns with respect to payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions);
(xxiv) Section 6055 (relating to information returns reporting minimum essential coverage);
(xxv) Section 6056 (relating to information returns reporting on offers of health insurance coverage by applicable large employer members);
(xxvi) Section 6050Y (relating to returns relating to certain life insurance contract transactions); or
(xxvii) Section 6050Z (relating to reports relating to long-term care premium statements).
(4)
Other items.
The term
information return
also includes any form, statement, or schedule required to be filed with the IRS under chapter 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) or with respect to any amount from which tax is required to be deducted and withheld under chapter 3 of the Code (or from which tax would be required to be so deducted and withheld but for an exemption under the Code or any treaty obligation of the United States), including but not limited to Form 1042-S,
Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding,
or Form 8805,
Foreign Partner's Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax.
(5)
Payee.
For purposes of section 6721 the term “payee” means any person who is required to receive a copy of the information set forth on an information return by the filer of the return as defined in section 6724(d)(1).
(6)
Filer.
For purposes of this section the term
filer
means a person that is required to file an information return as defined in paragraph (h)(1) of this section under the applicable information reporting section described in paragraphs (h)(2) through (4) of this section.
(i)
Adjustment for inflation.
Each of the dollar amounts under paragraphs (a), (b), (f) (other than paragraph (f)(2)), and (g) of this section and section 6721(a), (b), (d) (other than section 6721(d)(2)(A)), and (e) will be adjusted for inflation pursuant to section 6721(f).
(j)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, this section applies with respect to information returns required to be filed on or after January 1, 2024.
See
26 CFR 301.6721-1, as revised April 1, 2023, for rules applicable prior to January 1, 2024.
(2)
Exception.
Paragraph (h)(2)(xii) of this section applies with respect to information returns required to be filed after September 17, 2024.
[T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991, as amended by T.D. 8843, 64 FR 61504, Nov. 12, 1999; T.D. 9200, 70 FR 28742, May 18, 2005; T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49836, Aug. 16, 2010; T.D. 9504, 75 FR 64103, Oct. 18, 2010; T.D. 9660, 79 FR 13231, Mar. 10, 2014; T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11777, Feb. 23, 2023; T.D. 9984, 88 FR 87701, Dec. 19, 2023; T.D. 10000, 89 FR 56583, July 9, 2024; T.D. 9991, 89 FR 76386, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 301.6722-1
Failure to furnish correct payee statements.
(a)
Imposition of penalty
—(1)
General rule.
A penalty of $250 is imposed for each
payee statement
(as defined in section 6724(d)(2) and paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to which a
failure
(as defined in section 6722(a) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section) occurs. No more than one penalty will be imposed under this paragraph (a) with respect to a single payee statement even though there may be more than one failure with respect to such statement. However, the penalty will apply to failures on composite substitute payee statements as though each type of payment and other required information were furnished on separate statements. A
composite substitute payee statement
is a single document created by a filer to reflect several types of payments made to the same payee. The total amount imposed on any person for all failures during any calendar year with respect to all payee statements will not exceed $3,000,000.
See
section 6722(e) and paragraph (c) of this section for higher penalties if a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements.
See
paragraph (d) of this section for a safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors.
See
paragraph (f) of this section for inflation adjustments to penalty amounts.
See
§ 301.6724-1(a)(1) for a waiver of the penalty for a failure that is due to reasonable cause.
(2)
Failures subject to the penalty.
The failures to which section 6722(a) and
paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply are—
(i) A failure to furnish a payee statement on or before the prescribed date therefore to the person to whom such statement is required to be furnished (“failure to furnish timely”), and
(ii) A failure to include all of the information required to be shown on a payee statement or the inclusion of incorrect information (failure to include correct information). A failure to furnish timely includes a failure to furnish a written statement to the payee in a statement mailing as required under sections 6042(c), 6044(e), 6049(c), and 6050N(b), as well as a failure to furnish the statement on a form acceptable to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, a failure to include correct information encompasses a failure to include the information required by applicable information reporting statutes or by any administrative pronouncements issued thereunder (such as regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, or information reporting forms).
(b)
Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions
—(1)
In general.
An inconsequential error or omission is not considered a failure to include correct information. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term “inconsequential error or omission” means any failure that cannot reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use.
(2)
Errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
Errors or omissions relating to the following are never inconsequential:
(i) A dollar amount, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) The significant items in the address of a payee, which is the address provided by the payee to the filer;
(iii) The appropriate form for the information provided (
i.e.,
whether or not the form is an acceptable substitute for an official form of the IRS); and
(iv) The manner of furnishing a statement required under sections 6042(c), 6044(e), 6049(e), and 6050N(b). The IRS may, by administrative pronouncement, specify other types of errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not take into account any possible application of the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (c) of this section, the safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors under paragraph (d) of this section, or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):
(i)
Example 1.
A payor furnishes a statement with respect to a Form 1099-MISC (relating to miscellaneous income). The payee statement is complete and correct, except the word “boulevard” is misspelled in the payee's address. The error cannot reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her tax return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use. Therefore, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Example 2.
Assume the same facts in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section (
Example 1
), except that the only error on the payee statement is that the payee's street address, 4821 Grant Boulevard, is reported incorrectly as 8421 Grant Boulevard. A penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the payee statement because the error can reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her tax return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use.
(c)
Higher penalty for intentional disregard of requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements
—(1)
Application of section 6722(e).
If a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements, the amount of the penalty must be determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Whether a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements is based upon the facts and circumstances surrounding the failure. The facts and circumstances considered include those under § 301.6721-1(g)(3), which will apply
in determining whether a failure under this section is due to intentional disregard.
(2)
Amount of the penalty.
If one or more failures under paragraph (a) of this section are due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely payee statements or of the requirement to include correct information, then, with respect to each such failure determined under this paragraph (c)(2)—
(i) Paragraph (d) of this section will not apply;
(ii) The $3,000,000 limitation under paragraph (a) of this section will not apply and the penalty under this paragraph (c)(2) will not be taken into account in applying the $3,000,000 limitation to penalties not determined under this paragraph (c)(2);
(iii) The penalty imposed under paragraph (a) of this section will be $500 or, if greater, the statutory percentage; and
(iv) The term “statutory percentage” means—
(A) In the case of a payee statement other than a statement required under section 6045(b), 6041A(e) (in respect of a return required under section 6041A(b)), 6050H(d), 6050J(e), 6050K(b), or 6060L(c), 10 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly, or
(B) In the case of a payee statement required under section 6045(b), 6050K(b), or 6050L(c), 5 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly.
(3)
Computation of the penalty; aggregate dollar amount of items required to be shown correctly.
The aggregate dollar amount used in computing the penalty under this paragraph (c) is the amount that is not reported or is reported incorrectly. If the intentional disregard relates to a dollar amount, the statutory percentage is applied to the difference between the dollar amount reported and the amount required to be reported correctly. If the intentional disregard relates to any other item on the return, the statutory percentage is applied to the aggregate amount of items required to be reported correctly. In determining such amount the same item shall be counted only once. For example, if a filer willfully fails to furnish a Form 1099-INT on which $800 of interest and $160 of Federal income tax withheld (
i.e.,
backup withholding) is required to be shown, only the $800 amount is taken into account in computing the penalty.
(d)
Safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d)(3) of this section, the penalty under section 6722(a) and paragraph (a) of this section is not imposed for a failure described in section 6722(a)(2)(B) and paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section (failure to include correct information on payee statement) if the failure relates to an incorrect dollar amount and is a de minimis error. If the safe harbor in this paragraph (d) applies to a payee statement and the payee statement was otherwise correct and timely furnished, no correction is required and, for purposes of this section, the payee statement is treated as having been furnished with all of the correct required information.
(2)
Definition of de minimis error.
For purposes of this paragraph (d), an error in a dollar amount is de minimis if the difference between any single amount in error and the correct amount is not more than $100, and, if the difference is with respect to an amount of tax withheld, it is not more than $25. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), tax withheld includes any amount required to be shown on an
information return
or
payee statement
(as defined in section 6724(d)(1) and (2), respectively) withheld under section 3102 or 3402, as well as any such amount required to be shown on such an information return or payee statement that is creditable under section 27, 31, 33, or 1474.
(3)
Election to override the safe harbor exception
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(vi) and (vii) of this section, the safe harbor exception provided for by this paragraph (d) does not apply to any payee statement if the person to whom the statement is required to be furnished (the payee) makes an election that the safe harbor not apply with respect to the statement.
(ii)
Timing of election.
The payee must elect no later than the later of 30 days after the date on which the payee statement is required to be furnished
to the payee, or October 15 of the calendar year, to receive a correct payee statement required to be furnished in that calendar year without having the safe harbor under paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply. The date of an election is the date the election is received by the filer. For purposes of this section, the provisions of section 7502 relating to timely mailing treated as timely delivery apply in determining the date an election is considered to be received by the filer, treating delivery to the filer as if the filer were an agency, officer, or office under such section. The election will remain in effect for all subsequent years unless revoked under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section.
(iii)
Manner for making the election.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the payee must make the election by delivering the election in writing to the filer. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the written election must be made in writing on paper. The payee may deliver the election in person, by mail by United States Postal Service, or by a
designated delivery service
as defined under section 7502(f)(2). If the filer has not otherwise provided an address under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the payee must send the written election to the filer's address appearing on the payee statement furnished by the filer to the payee with respect to which the election is being made or as directed by that person upon appropriate inquiry by the payee. The written election must:
(A) Clearly state that the payee is making the election;
(B) Provide the payee's name, address, and
taxpayer identification number
(
TIN
) (as defined in section 7701(a)(41) of the Internal Revenue Code) to the filer;
(C) If the payee wants the election to apply only to specific types of statements, identify the type of payee statement(s) and account number(s), if applicable, to which the election applies (for example, Form 1099-DIV,
Dividends and Distributions
); and
(D) Provide any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions, or publications.
(iv)
Payee statements to which the election applies.
An election by a payee under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section applies to all types of payee statements the filer is required to furnish to the payee, unless the payee specifies otherwise on the election under paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.
(v)
Reasonable alternative manner for making the election in cases of notification by the filer
—(A)
In general.
If the filer satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section, and provides for a reasonable alternative manner as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section, a payee may decide to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section pursuant to that reasonable alternative manner.
(B)
Notification of payee of reasonable alternative manner for making election.
The filer may elect to provide notification to the payee of a reasonable alternative manner to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. To provide a valid notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B), the filer must provide notification to the payee that:
(
1
) Is in writing (either on paper or in electronic format);
(
2
) Is timely provided to the payee under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D) of this section;
(
3
) Explains to the payee to whom that filer is required to furnish a payee statement of the payee's ability to elect, under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, that the safe harbor exceptions for de minimis errors not apply, and of the payee's ability to choose to make the election using the default method under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section;
(
4
) Provides an address to which the payee may send an election under paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (iii) of this section;
(
5
) Provides any reasonable alternative manner or manners, as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section, that the filer is making available for the payee to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section; and
(
6
) Describes the information required for making the election described by paragraphs (d)(3)(iii)(A)
through (D) of this section. Solely for purposes of the reasonable alternative manner, the notification may provide that some or all of the information described in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section is not required and may provide that the provision of an account number as referenced in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section is required if the payee decides to use the reasonable alternative manner for the election.
(C)
Notification of revocation procedures.
A notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v) may also provide the procedures for making a revocation of an election under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section. Solely for purposes of the reasonable alternative manner, the notification may provide that some or all of the information described in paragraph (d)(3)(vii)(B) of this section is not required and may provide that the provision of an account number as referenced in paragraph (d)(3)(vii)(E) of this section is required if the payee decides to use a reasonable alternative manner for making a revocation.
(D)
Time for providing notification of reasonable alternative manner for making payee election.
A notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v) will be timely under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(
2
) of this section if:
(
1
) The notification is provided with, or at the time of, the furnishing of the payee statement; or
(
2
) The filer previously provided a valid notification under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section to the payee with, or at the time of, the furnishing of a payee statement associated with a particular account, in which case notification will be considered to have been timely provided with respect to subsequent payee statements associated with that particular account. If the filer wishes to provide for a different reasonable alternative manner than a previous reasonable alternative manner, the filer must provide new notification in compliance with the timeliness rule of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D)(
1
) of this section, and must accept payee elections under the previous reasonable alternative manner for a period of at least 60 days after the receipt of the new notification by the payee.
(E)
Reasonable alternative manner.
A reasonable alternative manner described in a notification under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section may include that a payee election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section may be made electronically (for example, via email or website) or telephonically. The reasonable alternative manner may not impose any prerequisite, condition, or time limitation on, or otherwise limit, the payee's ability to make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, except as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section; it may only offer a reasonable alternative manner or manners for making this election under this paragraph (d)(3)(v).
(vi)
Election not available for certain information.
The election to override the safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section is not available with respect to information that may not be altered under specific information reporting rules.
See,
for example, § 1.6045-4(i)(5) of this chapter.
(vii)
Revocation of election.
The payee may revoke a prior election by submitting a revocation to the filer. The effect of a revocation of a prior election is that the safe harbor for certain de minimis errors will apply to the payee statements that the payee identifies and that are furnished or are due to be furnished after the revocation is received. The revocation will remain in effect until the payee makes a valid and timely election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. The date of a revocation is the date the revocation is received by the filer. For purposes of this section, the provisions of section 7502 relating to timely mailing treated as timely delivery apply in determining the date a revocation is considered to be received by the filer, treating delivery to the filer as if the filer were an agency, officer, or office under section 7502. The revocation must be made in the same manner or manners described for making the election, that is pursuant to either paragraph (d)(3)(iii) or (v) of this section, as the payee chooses if paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section is applicable. Except as provided under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(
6
) of this section, the revocation must:
(A) Clearly state that the payee is revoking the payee's prior election;
(B) Provide the payee's name, address, and TIN to the filer;
(C) Provide the name of the filer;
(D) Identify the type of payee statement(s) (for example, Form 1099-DIV) to which the revocation applies;
(E) Identify the account number(s), if applicable, to which the revocation applies; and
(F) Provide any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions or publications.
(viii)
Reasonable cause. See
§ 301.6724-1(h) for rules relating to waiver of the section 6722 penalty in cases where the safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply because of an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
(4)
Record retention.
To facilitate proof of compliance with reporting and other obligations under the internal revenue laws, filers must retain records of any election or revocation by the payee under paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (vii) of this section, respectively, and any notification made under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section for as long as the contents of the election, revocation, or notification may be material in the administration of any internal revenue law. For rules regarding record retention,
see
section 6001 and § 1.6001-1 of this chapter. For additional procedures applicable to record retention in the context of electronic storage,
see
Rev. Proc. 97-22, 1997-1 C.B. 652, Rev. Proc. 98-25, 1998-1 C.B. 689, and any subsequently published guidance.
(5)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not address any possible application of the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (c) of this section or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):
(i)
Example 1
—(A)
Facts.
Filer W is required to file with the IRS by February 28, 2024, and furnish to Payee E by February 15, 2024, Form 1099-B
Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions,
because W is a broker who sold stocks on behalf of E resulting in proceeds of $5,000 during calendar year 2023. W properly withheld an amount of $1,736 under applicable backup withholding rules because E failed to furnish E's TIN to W. On the Form 1099-B, W reports as follows: Box 1d, Proceeds, $4,900; and Box 4, Federal income tax withheld, $1,761. W otherwise correctly and timely files and furnishes the Form 1099-B. E does not make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
(B)
Analysis.
The safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies, because the differences between each of the amounts reported in error and the correct amounts are not more than the applicable limits. The error in the dollar amount reported in Box 1d, Proceeds, is de minimis because the difference between the amount in error ($4,900) and the correct amount ($5,000) is not more than $100; it is exactly $100. The error in the dollar amount reported in Box 4, Federal income tax withheld, is de minimis because the $25 difference between the amount in error ($1,761) and the correct amount ($1,736) is not more than $25, the limit for an error with respect to an amount reported for tax withheld.
(ii)
Example 2
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section (
Example 1
), except that Filer W reports $1,710 as the amount in Box 4, Federal income tax withheld.
(B)
Analysis.
The safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply because the Form 1099-B contains a failure that is not a de minimis error. The difference between the amount in error ($1,710) and the correct amount ($1,736) is $26, which is more than the $25 limit for de minimis errors with respect to an amount reported for tax withheld.
(iii)
Example 3
—(A)
Facts.
In 2024, Filer X provides Payee B with valid notification of a reasonable alternative manner under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section for making the payee election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. B timely elects pursuant to the reasonable alternative manner during 2024. B elects the reasonable alternative manner with respect to all payee statements that X is required to furnish to B. In January 2025, X decides to provide for a different, but also
valid, reasonable alternative manner; X provides notification of this different reasonable alternative manner to B, and B receives notification of this different reasonable alternative manner, pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section, on January 16, 2025. B decides to revoke B's prior election, with respect to the Forms 1099-DIV that X is required to furnish to B.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section, Payee B may provide the revocation to Filer X in any of three different manners. First, B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the default manner of paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section; B may do so at any time. Second, having received notification from X of the different reasonable alternative manner on January 16, 2025, B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the different reasonable alternative manner pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section. Third, because X previously provided notification of a reasonable alternative manner (2024 alternative) before providing notification of a different reasonable alternative manner on January 16, 2025 (2025 alternative), B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the previous reasonable alternative manner (2024 alternative); B may do so for a period of 60 days after January 16, 2025, pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D)(
2
) of this section.
(iv)
Example 4
—(A)
Facts.
In 2024, Filer Y furnishes, as required, a Form W-2,
Wage and Tax Statement,
to Payee C for wages paid in 2023. The correct version of this Form W-2, without any errors, de minimis or otherwise, would have reported $15,200 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,200 of social security tax withheld, $1,450 of Medicare tax withheld, and $6,000 of state income tax withheld. However, the Form W-2 that Y furnishes to C reports $15,180 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,180 of social security tax withheld, $1,430 of Medicare tax withheld, and $5,980 of state income tax withheld. The 2023 Form W-2 does not require reporting a sum total of tax withheld of all types. C does not make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
(B)
Analysis.
For each of the four amounts of tax withheld, the difference between the amount of tax withheld that is reported on the Form W-2 and the correct amount is $20. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, each of these errors is a de minimis error because each is with respect to an amount of tax withheld and is not more than $25. If there are no other errors on the Form W-2, the safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies. The amounts of tax withheld are not combined in determining whether an error constitutes a de minimis error, if a combined amount is not required to be reported on the payee statement.
(v)
Example 5
—(A)
Facts.
In 2024, Filer Z furnishes, as required, a Form W-2 to Payee D for wages paid in 2023. The correct version of this Form W-2, without any errors, de minimis or otherwise, would have reported $15,200 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,200 of social security tax withheld, $1,450 of Medicare tax withheld, $6,000 of state income tax withheld, and no other taxes withheld. The Form W-2 that Z furnishes to D reports $15,170 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,220 of social security tax withheld, and the correct amount of Medicare tax withheld and state income tax withheld.
(B) A single amount of tax withheld reported on the Form W-2, specifically the amount of Federal income tax withheld, differs from the correct amount by more than $25. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this error is not a de minimis error. Therefore, the safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply. It is irrelevant that the sum total of taxes withheld reported on the Form W-2 ($28,840) differs from the correct total of taxes withheld ($28,850) by less than $25.
(6)
Voluntary corrections.
Regardless of whether the de minimis error safe harbor in this paragraph (d) provides an exception for not furnishing a particular corrected payee statement, the corrected payee statement may be furnished voluntarily if a corresponding
information return reflecting the information reported on the corrected payee statement is concurrently filed.
(7)
Limitations on applicability.
The safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies only for the purposes of payee statement penalties under section 6722. Accordingly, this safe harbor exception applies to the reporting of amounts on payee statements, including the reporting of the withholding of tax on payee statements, but does not apply for purposes of any underlying requirements to withhold or pay tax. Interest, penalties, and other additions to tax may be imposed under other sections for under-withholding or underpaying tax in any amount.
(e)
Definitions
—(1)
Payee. See
§ 301.6721-1(h)(5) for the definition of
payee.
(2)
Payee statement.
For purposes of this section the term
payee statement
has the same meaning as
payee statement
as defined by section 6724(d)(2), including any statement required to be furnished under—
(i) Section 6031(b) or (c), 6034A, or 6037(b) (relating to statements furnished by certain pass-thru entities, generally a Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), “Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6031(b) or (c), a copy of the Schedule K-1 (Form 1041), “Beneficiary's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6034A, and a copy of Schedule K-1 (Form 1120S), “Shareholder's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6037(b));
(ii) Section 6039(b) (relating to information required in connection with certain options);
(iii) Section 6041(d) (relating to information at source, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC, “Miscellaneous Income”; Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement”; Form 1099-INT, “Interest Income”; and the winner's copies of Form W-2G, “Certain Gambling Winnings”);
(iv) Section 6041A(e) (relating to returns regarding payments of remuneration for services and direct sales, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);
(v) Section 6042(c) (relating to returns regarding payments of dividends and corporate earnings and profits, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-DIV, “Dividends and Distributions”);
(vi) Section 6043A(b) or (d) (relating to returns relating to taxable mergers and acquisitions);
(vii) Section 6044(e) (relating to returns regarding payments of patronage dividends, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-PATR, “Taxable Distributions Received From Cooperatives”);
(viii) Section 6045(a) or (d) (relating to returns of brokers, generally reported on Form 1099-B,
Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions,
for broker transactions not involving digital assets; Form 1099-DA,
Digital Asset Proceeds From Broker Transactions,
for broker transactions involving digital assets; Form 1099-S,
Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions,
for gross proceeds from the sale or exchange of real estate; and Form 1099-MISC,
Miscellaneous Income,
for certain substitute payments and payments to attorneys);
(ix) Section 6045A (relating to information required in connection with transfers of covered securities to brokers);
(x) Section 6045B(c) or (e) (relating to returns relating to actions affecting basis of specified securities);
(xi) Section 6049(c) (relating to returns regarding payments of interest, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID, “Original Issue Discount”);
(xii) Section 6050A(b) (relating to reporting requirements of certain fishing boat operators, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);
(xiii) Section 6050H(d) or (h)(2) (relating to returns relating to mortgage interest received in trade or business from individuals, generally the payor copy of Form 1098, “Mortgage Interest Statement”);
(xiv) Section 6050I(e), (g)(4), or (g)(5) (relating to returns relating to cash received in trade or business, etc., generally a copy of Form 8300, “Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received In a Trade or Business”);
(xv) Section 6050J(e) (relating to returns relating to foreclosures and abandonments of security, generally the borrower copy of Form 1099-A,
“Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property”);
(xvi) Section 6050K(b) (relating to returns relating to exchanges of certain partnership interests, generally a copy of Form 8308, “Report of a Sale or Exchange of Certain Partnership Interests”);
(xvii) Section 6050L(c) (relating to returns relating to certain dispositions of donated property, generally a copy of Form 8282, “Donee Information Return”);
(xviii) Section 6050N(b) (relating to returns regarding payments of royalties, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);
(xix) Section 6050P(d) (relating to returns relating to the cancellation of indebtedness by certain financial entities, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-C, “Cancellation of Debt”);
(xx) Section 6050Q(b) (relating to certain long-term care benefits, generally the policyholder and insured copies of Form 1099-LTC, “Long-Term Care and Accelerated Death Benefits”);
(xxi) Section 6050R(c) (relating to returns relating to certain purchases of fish, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);
(xxii) Section 6051 (relating to receipts for employees, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);
(xxiii) Section 6052(b) (relating to returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);
(xxiv) Section 6053(b) or (c) (relating to reports of tips, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);
(xxv) Section 6048(b)(1)(B) (relating to foreign trust reporting requirements, generally copies of the owner and beneficiary statements of Form 3520-A, “Annual Information Return of Foreign Trust With a U.S. Owner”);
(xxvi) Section 408(i) (relating to reports with respect to individual retirement plans on the recipient copies of Form 1099-R, “Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc.”);
(xxvii) Section 6047(d) (relating to reports by plan administrators on the recipient copies of Form 1099-R);
(xxviii) Section 6050S(d) (relating to returns relating to qualified tuition and related expenses, generally the borrower copy of Form 1098-E, “Student Loan Interest Statement,” or the student copy of Form 1098-T, “Tuition Statement”);
(xxix) Section 264(f)(5)(A)(iv) (relating to reporting with respect to certain life insurance and annuity contracts);
(xxx) Section 6050T (relating to returns relating to credit for health insurance costs of eligible individuals, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-H, “Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) Advance Payments”);
(xxxi) Section 6050U (relating to charges or payments for qualified long-term care insurance contracts under combined arrangements, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-R);
(xxxii) Section 6050W (relating to information returns with respect to payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions);
(xxxiii) Section 6055 (relating to information returns reporting minimum essential coverage);
(xxxiv) Section 6056 (relating to information returns reporting on offers of health insurance coverage by applicable large employer members);
(xxxv) Section 6035 (relating to basis information with respect to property acquired from a decedent, generally Schedule A of Form 8971,
Information Regarding Beneficiaries Acquiring Property from a Decedent
), other than an information return described in section 6724(d)(1)(D), whether an initial or supplemental payee statement;
(xxxvi) Section 6050Y(a)(2), 6050Y(b)(2), or 6050Y(c)(2) (relating to certain life insurance contract transactions);
(xxxvii) Section 6226(a)(2) (regarding statements relating to alternative to payment of imputed underpayment by a partnership) or under any other provision of this title that provides for the application of rules similar to section 6226(a)(2); or
(xxxviii) Section 6050Z (relating to reports relating to long-term care premium statements).
(3)
Other items.
The term
payee statement
also includes any form, statement, or schedule required to be furnished to the recipient of any amount from which tax is required to be deducted and withheld under chapters 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (or from which tax would be required to be so deducted and withheld but for an exemption under the Internal Revenue Code or any treaty obligation of the United States) (including but not limited to the recipient copy of Form 1042-S, “Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding,” or Form 8805, “Foreign Partner's Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax.”)
(4)
Filer.
For purposes of this section the term
filer
means a person that is required to furnish a
payee statement
as defined in paragraph (e)(2) and (3) of this section under the applicable information reporting section described in paragraph (e)(2) and (3) of this section.
(f)
Adjustment for inflation.
Each of the dollar amounts under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and paragraphs (a), (b), (d)(1), and (e) of section 6722 will be adjusted for inflation pursuant to section 6722(f).
(g)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, this section applies with respect to payee statements required to be furnished on or after January 1, 2024.
See
26 CFR 301.6722-1, as revised April 1, 2023, for rules applicable prior to January 1, 2024.
(2)
Exception.
Paragraph (e)(2)(xxxv) of this section applies with respect to payee statements required to be furnished after September 17, 2024.
[T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991, as amended by T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23086, Apr. 29, 2008; T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49836, Aug. 16, 2010; T.D. 9504, 75 FR 64104, Oct. 18, 2010; T.D. 9660, 79 FR 13231, Mar. 10, 2014; T.D. 9984, 88 FR 87705, Dec. 19, 2023; T.D. 10000, 89 FR 56583, July 9, 2024, T.D. 9991, 89 FR 76386, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 301.6723-1
Failure to comply with other information reporting requirements.
(a)
Imposition of penalty
—(1)
General rule.
A penalty of $50 is imposed for each failure to comply timely with a specified information reporting requirement (as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) or for each failure to include correct specified information. Multiple penalties are imposed with respect to a document with failures to comply with more than one of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section or multiple instances of failures to comply with any one of these requirements. Nonetheless, if a failure that occurs with respect to any requirement defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section would be subject to a penalty under both paragraph (a)(2)(i) and paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, no more than one penalty is imposed for such failure. The total amount imposed on any person for all failures during any calendar year with respect to all specified information reporting requirements shall not exceed $100,000. See paragraph (a) of § 301.6724-1 for the waiver of the penalty for a failure that is due to reasonable cause.
(2)
Failures subject to the penalty.
The failures to which paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply are—
(i) A failure to comply timely with a specified information reporting requirement on or before the date prescribed therefor (“failure to comply timely”), and
(ii) A failure to include all the information required by a specified information reporting requirement or the inclusion of incorrect information (“failure to include correct information”).
(3)
Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions.
An inconsequential error or omission is not considered a failure to comply with a specified information reporting requirement. For purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, an error or omission is considered inconsequential if it does not frustrate the purpose or use for which the information is intended.
(4)
Specified information reporting requirement defined.
For purposes of section 6723 and this section, a “specified information reporting requirement” means—
(i) The requirement to provide the notice under section 6050K(c)(1) (relating to the requirement that a transferor notify the partnership of an exchange of a partnership interest);
(ii) Any requirement contained in the regulations under section 6109 that a person—
(A) Include his or her taxpayer identification number (“TIN”) on any return, statement, or other document (other than an information return or payee statement),
(B) Include on any return, statement, or other document (other than an information return or payee statement) made with respect to another person the TIN of such person, or
(C) Furnish his or her TIN to another person;
(iii) Any requirement contained in the regulations under section 215 that a person—
(A) Furnish his or her TIN to another person, or
(B) Include on his or her return the TIN of another person; and
(iv) The requirement under section 6109(e) that a person include the TIN of any dependent on his or her return.
(b)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples which do not take into account the reasonable cause waiver under section 6724(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of § 301.6724-1.

# Example 1.
Individual A, who has two dependents ages 7 and 9, files his 1990 Form 1040 in 1991. The Form 1040 requires him to provide the TINs of his two dependents, which A fails to do. Because A fails to comply timely with two requirements to include on his return the TIN of another person, a $50 penalty under paragraph (a) of this section is imposed on A for each of the two failures, for a total penalty of $100.

# Example 2.
In 1991 Individual B opens with Bank X an account which pays reportable interest under section 6049. When B opens the account, Bank X requests that B provide his TIN on a Form W-9. B does not provide his TIN as required by § 301.6109-1(b). As a result B fails to comply timely with a specified information reporting requirement under paragraph (a) of this section for furnishing his TIN to another person. Therefore, a $50 penalty is imposed on B under paragraph (a) of this section for the failure. See section 6721(a) for the penalty to which X may be subject if X files a Form 1099-INT (relating to payments of interest) for calendar year 1991 without B's TIN. See section 3406(a)(1)(A) which requires X to impose backup withholding on reportable payments of interest to B's account.

# Example 3.
In 1991 Individual C is a nonresident alien with an account inside the U.S. with Bank Z. The account pays interest that would be reportable under section 6049 but for the fact that it is paid to a nonresident alien. Under section 6109 and § 301.6109-1(b), Bank Z is required to request the TIN from C. C claims that he is a nonresident alien and that his account is not subject to information reporting under section 6049. Because of this, C contends he is not required to provide any TIN information. As a result of this discussion, Bank Z then requests C to provide it with a Form W-8 in order for C to certify that he is a nonresident alien which C fails to do. C fails to comply timely with a specified information reporting requirement under paragraph (a) of this section to furnish his TIN to another person. Therefore, a penalty is imposed on C under paragraph (a) of this section for the failure. See section 6721(a) for the penalty that may be imposed on Z if Z files a Form 1099-INT for calendar year 1991 without C's TIN. See section 3406(a)(1)(A) under which Z is required to impose backup withholding on reportable payment of interest to C's account.

# Example 4.
In 1991 Partnership D opens with Bank Y an account that pays reportable interest under section 6049. When D opens the account, Y requests the partnership's employer identification number (EIN) on a Form W-9 as required under § 301.6109-1(b). The partnership provides its EIN on the Form W-9. Y files an information return with respect to D for the 1991 calendar year. Subsequently, the Internal Revenue Service later notifies Y that D's EIN is incorrect as defined under section 3406 and § 35a.3406-1(a)(6). D fails to comply timely with a specified reporting requirement under paragraph (a) of this section of furnishing its correct EIN to another person. Therefore, a penalty is imposed on D under paragraph (a) of this section for the failure. See section 6721(a) for the penalty to which Y may be subject if Y files a Form 1099-INT for calendar year 1991 without D's correct EIN. See section 3406(a)(1)(B), which requires Y to impose backup withholding on reportable payments of interest to B's account when the Internal Revenue Service or a broker has notified Y that the EIN is incorrect.
[T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991]
§ 301.6724-1
Reasonable cause.
(a)
Waiver of the penalty
—(1)
General rule.
The penalty for a failure relating to an
information reporting requirement
as defined in paragraph (j) of this section is waived if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.
(2)
Reasonable cause defined.
The penalty is waived for reasonable cause only if the filer establishes that either—
(i) There are significant mitigating factors with respect to the failure, as
described in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) The failure arose from events beyond the filer's control (impediment), as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii) Moreover, the filer must establish that the filer acted in a responsible manner, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, both before and after the failure occurred. Thus, if the filer establishes that there are significant mitigating factors for a failure but is unable to establish that the filer acted in a responsible manner, the mitigating factors will not be sufficient to obtain a waiver of the penalty. Similarly, if the filer establishes that a failure arose from an impediment but is unable to establish that the filer acted in a responsible manner, the impediment will not be sufficient to obtain a waiver of the penalty.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for the reasonable cause safe harbor for persons who exercise due diligence.
See
paragraph (h) of this section for the reasonable cause safe harbor after an election under section 6722(c)(3)(B) and § 301.6722-1(d)(3).
(b)
Significant mitigating factors.
In order to establish reasonable cause under this paragraph (b), the filer must satisfy paragraph (d) of this section and must show that there are significant mitigating factors for the failure.
See
paragraph (c)(5) of this section for the application of this paragraph (b) to failures attributable to the actions of a filer's agent. The applicable mitigating factors include, but are not limited to—
(1) The fact that prior to the failure the filer was never required to file the particular type of return or furnish the particular type of statement with respect to which the failure occurred, or
(2) The fact that the filer has an established history of complying with the information reporting requirement with respect to which the failure occurred. In determining whether the filer has such an established history, significant consideration is given to—
(i) Whether the filer has incurred any penalty under § 301.6721-1, § 301.6722-1, or § 301.6723-1 in prior years for the failure; and
(ii) If the filer has incurred any such penalty in prior years, the extent of the filer's success in lessening its error rate from year to year.
(3) A filer may treat as a penalty not incurred any penalty under sections 6721 through 6723 that was self-assessed under section 6724(c)(3) and any penalty under section 6676(b) that was self-assessed under section 6676(d), prior to amendment or repeal by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989. See paragraph (c)(5) of this section for the application of this paragraph (b) to failures attributable to the actions of a filer's agent.
(c)
Events beyond the filer's control
—(1)
In general.
In order to establish reasonable cause under this paragraph (c)(1), the filer must satisfy paragraph (d) of this section and must show that the failure was due to events beyond the filer's control. Events which are generally considered beyond the filer's control include but are not limited to—
(i) The unavailability of the relevant business records (as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section),
(ii) An undue economic hardship relating to filing on magnetic media (as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section),
(iii) Certain actions of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section),
(iv) Certain actions of an agent (as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section), and
(v) Certain actions of the payee or any other person providing necessary information with respect to the return or payee statement (as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section).
(2)
Unavailability of the relevant business records.
In order to establish reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to the unavailability of the relevant business records, the filer's business records must have been unavailable under such conditions, in such manner, and for such period as to prevent timely compliance (ordinarily at least a 2-week period prior to the due date (with regard to extensions) of the required return or the required date (with regard to extensions) for furnishing the payee statement), and the unavailability must have been caused by a supervening event. A “supervening event” includes, but is not limited to—
(i) A fire or other casualty that damages or impairs the filer's relevant business records or the filer's system for processing and filing such records;
(ii) A statutory or regulatory change that has a direct impact upon data processing and that is made so close to the time that the return or payee statement is required that, for all practical purposes, the change cannot be complied with; or
(iii) The unavoidable absence (e.g., due to death or serious illness) of the person with the sole responsibility for filing a return or furnishing a payee statement.
(3)
Undue economic hardship relating to filing on magnetic media.
In order to establish reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to an undue economic hardship for filing on magnetic media, the filer must show that it failed to file on magnetic media because the filer lacked the necessary hardware. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the filer will not be considered to have acted in a responsible manner under paragraph (d) of this section unless—
(i) The filer attempted on a timely basis to contract out the magnetic media filing;
(ii) The cost of filing on magnetic media or in electronic form was prohibitive as determined at least 45 days before the due date of the returns (without regard to extensions);
(iii) The cost was supported by a minimum of two cost estimates from unrelated parties; and
(iv) The filer filed the returns on paper. Reasonable cause will not ordinarily be established under this paragraph (c)(3) if a filer received a reasonable cause waiver in any prior year under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to an undue economic hardship relating to filing on magnetic media.
(4)
Actions of the IRS.
In order to establish reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to certain actions of the IRS, a filer must show that the failure was due to the filer's reasonable reliance on erroneous written information from the IRS. Reasonable reliance means that the filer relied in good faith on the information. The filer shall not be considered to have relied in good faith if the IRS was not aware of all the facts when it provided the information to the filer. In order to substantiate reasonable cause under this paragraph (c)(4), the filer must provide a copy of the written information provided by the IRS and, if applicable, the filer's written request for the information.
(5)
Actions of agent—imputed reasonable cause.
In order to establish reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to actions of an agent, the filer must show the following:
(i) The filer exercised reasonable business judgment in contracting with the agent to file timely correct returns or furnish timely correct payee statements with respect to which the failure occurred. This includes contracting with the agent and providing the proper information sufficiently in advance of the due date of the return or statement to permit timely filing of correct returns or timely furnishing of correct payee statements; and
(ii) The agent satisfied the reasonable cause criteria set forth in paragraph (b) or one of the reasonable cause criteria set forth in paragraph (c) (2) through (6) of this section.
(6)
Actions of the payee or any other person.
In order to establish reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(1) of this section due to the actions of the payee or any other person, such as a broker as defined in section 6045(c) providing information with respect to the return or payee statement, the filer must show either—
(i) That the failure resulted from the failure of the payee, or any other person required to provide information necessary for the filer to comply with the information reporting requirements (“any other person”), to provide information to the filer, or
(ii) That the failure resulted from incorrect information provided by the payee (or any other person) upon which information the filer relied in good faith. To substantiate reasonable cause under this paragraph (c)(6), the filer must provide documentary evidence upon request of the IRS showing that the failure was attributable to the payee (or any other person). See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for special rules relating to the availability of a waiver where the filer's failure relates
to a taxpayer identification number (TIN), and the failure is attributable to actions of the payee described in paragraph (c)(6) (i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Responsible manner
—(1)
In general.
Acting in a responsible manner means—
(i) That the filer exercised reasonable care, which is that standard of care that a reasonably prudent person would use under the circumstances in the course of its business in determining its filing obligations and in handling account information such as account numbers and balances, and
(ii) That the filer undertook significant steps to avoid or mitigate the failure, including, where applicable—
(A) Requesting appropriate extensions of time to file, when practicable, in order to avoid the failure,
(B) Attempting to prevent an impediment or a failure, if it was foreseeable,
(C) Acting to remove an impediment or the cause of a failure, once it occurred, and
(D) Rectifying the failure as promptly as possible once the impediment was removed or the failure was discovered. Ordinarily, a rectification is considered prompt if it is made within 30 days after the date the impediment is removed or the failure is discovered or on the earliest date thereafter on which a regular submission of corrections is made. Submissions will be considered regular only if made at intervals of 30 days or less. A failure may be rectified by filing or correcting the information return, furnishing or correcting the payee statement, or by providing or correcting the information to satisfy the specified information reporting requirement with respect to which the failure occurs. Paragraph (d)(ii)(D) of this section does not apply with respect to information the filer is prohibited from altering under specific information reporting rules. See § 1.6045-4(i)(5) of this chapter.
(2)
Special rule for filers seeking a waiver pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
A filer seeking a waiver for reasonable cause pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section with respect to a failure resulting from a missing or an incorrect TIN will be deemed to have acted in a responsible manner in compliance with this paragraph (d) only if the filer satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section (relating to missing TINs) or paragraph (f) of this section (relating to incorrect TINs), whichever is applicable.
(e)
Acting in a responsible manner—special rules for missing TINs
—(1)
In general.
A filer that is seeking a waiver for reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(6) of this section will satisfy paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect to establishing that a failure to include a TIN on an information return resulted from the failure of the payee to provide information to the filer (that is, a missing TIN) only if the filer makes the initial and, if required, the annual solicitations described in this paragraph (e) (required solicitations). For purposes of this section, a number is treated as a
missing TIN
if the number does not contain nine digits or includes one or more alpha characters (a character or symbol other than an Arabic numeral) as one of the nine digits. A solicitation means a request by the filer for the payee to furnish a correct TIN.
See
paragraph (f) of this section for the rules that a filer must follow to establish that the filer acted in a responsible manner with respect to providing incorrect TINs on information returns.
See
paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(A) of this section for alternative solicitation requirements.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for the safe harbor due diligence rules.
(i)
Initial solicitation.
An initial solicitation for a payee's correct TIN must be made at the time an account is opened. The term
account
includes accounts, relationships, and other transactions. However, a filer is not required to make an initial solicitation under this paragraph (e)(1)(i) with respect to a new account if the filer has the payee's TIN and uses that TIN for all accounts of the payee. For example,
see
§ 31.3406(h)-3(a) of this chapter. If the account is opened in person, the initial solicitation may be made by oral or written request, such as on an account creation document. If the account is opened by mail, telephone, or other electronic means, the TIN may be requested through such communications. If the account is opened by the payee's completing and mailing an application furnished by the filer that requests the
payee's TIN, the initial solicitation requirement is considered met. If a TIN is not received as a result of an initial solicitation, the filer may be required to make additional solicitations (annual solicitations).
(ii)
First annual solicitation.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section, a filer must undertake an annual solicitation if a TIN is not received as a result of an initial solicitation (or if the filer was not required to make an initial solicitation under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section and the filer has not received a payee's TIN). The first annual solicitation must be made on or before December 31 of the year in which the account is opened (for accounts opened before December) or January 31 of the following year (for accounts opened in the preceding December) (“annual solicitation period”).
(iii)
Second annual solicitation.
If the TIN is not received as a result of the first annual solicitation, the filer must undertake a second annual solicitation. The second annual solicitation must be made after the expiration of the annual solicitation period and on or before December 31 of the year immediately succeeding the calendar year in which the account is opened.
(iv)
Additional requirements.
After receiving a TIN, a filer must include that TIN on any information returns the original due date of which (with regard to extensions) is after the date that the filer receives the TIN.
(v)
Failures to which a solicitation relates.
The initial and first annual solicitations relate to failures on returns filed for the year in which an account is opened. The second annual solicitation relates to failures on returns filed for the year immediately following the year in which an account is opened and for succeeding calendar years.
(vi)
Exceptions and limitations.
(A) The solicitation requirements under this paragraph (e) do not apply to the extent an information reporting provision under which a
return,
as defined in paragraph (h) of § 301.6721-1, is filed provides specific requirements relating to the manner or the time period in which a TIN must be solicited. In that event, the requirements of this paragraph (e) will be satisfied only if the filer complies with the manner and time period requirements of the specific information reporting provision and the provisions of this paragraph (e) to the extent applicable. Also, see section 3406(e) which provides rules on the manner and time period in which a TIN must be provided for certain accounts with respect to interest, dividends, patronage dividends, and amounts subject to broker reporting.
(B) An annual solicitation is not required to be made for a year under this paragraph (e) with respect to an account if no payments are made to the account for such year or if no return as defined in paragraph (g) of § 301.6721-1 is required to be filed for the account for the year.
(C) If a filer fails to make one (or more) of the required solicitations under paragraphs (e)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, the filer may satisfy the requirements of this section by—
(
1
) Making two consecutive annual solicitations in subsequent years (“make-up solicitations”), and
(
2
) Satisfying paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.
For example, a filer who has made none of the required solicitations may satisfy the requirements of this section by making two consecutive solicitations. In determining whether a filer has made two consecutive solicitations, years to which paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(B) of this section applies shall be disregarded. If a filer fails to make the initial solicitation under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the make-up solicitations described in this paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(C) may be made in the years in which the first and second annual solicitations are required to be made; however, the penalty will apply with respect to the year in which the filer failed to make the initial solicitation. The penalty will apply to failures with respect to years for which a required solicitation is not made and to failures with respect to all subsequent years until the filer conducts its make-up solicitations. The penalty will not apply with respect to the year in which the first make-up solicitation is made (unless it is also the year in which the filer fails to make its initial solicitation) if the second make-up solicitation is made in the following year.
(D) A financial institution is not required to make an annual solicitation by mail on accounts with “stop-mail” or “hold-mail” instructions, provided the filer furnishes the solicitation material to the payee in the same manner as it furnishes other mail.
(E) A filer is not required to make annual solicitations by mail on accounts with respect to which the filer has an undeliverable address, that is, where other mailings to that address have been returned to the filer because the address was incorrect and no new address has been provided to the filer.
(F) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi)(A) and (C) of this section, no more than two annual solicitations are required under this paragraph (e) in order for a filer to establish reasonable cause.
(2)
Manner of making annual solicitations—by mail or telephone
—(i)
By mail.
A mail solicitation must include—
(A) A letter informing the payee that he or she must provide his or her TIN and that he or she is subject to a $50 penalty imposed by the IRS under section 6723 if he or she fails to furnish his or her TIN,
(B) A Form W-9 or an acceptable substitute form, as defined in § 31.3406 (h)-3 (a), (b), or (c) of this chapter, on which the payee may provide the TIN, and
(C) A return envelope for the payee to provide the TIN which may be, but is not required to be, postage prepaid.
(ii)
By telephone.
An annual solicitation may be made by telephone if the solicitation procedure is reasonably designed and carried out in a manner that is conducive to obtaining the TIN. An annual solicitation is made pursuant to this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) for a failure if the filer—
(A) Completes a call to each person with a missing TIN and speaks to an adult member of the household, or to an officer of the business or the organization,
(B) Requests the TIN of the payee,
(C) Informs the payee that he or she is subject to a $50 penalty imposed by the IRS under section 6723 if he or she fails to furnish his or her TIN,
(D) Maintains contemporaneous records showing that the solicitation was properly made, and
(E) Provides such contemporaneous records to the IRS upon request.
(f)
Acting in a responsible manner—special rules for incorrect TINS
—(1)
In general.
A filer that is seeking a waiver for reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(6) of this section will satisfy paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect to establishing that a failure resulted from incorrect information provided by the payee or any other person (that is, inclusion of an incorrect TIN) on an information return only if the filer makes the initial and annual solicitations described in this paragraph (f).
See
paragraph (e)(1) of this section for the definition of the term
solicitation. See
paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section for alternative solicitation requirements.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for the safe harbor due diligence rules.
(i)
Initial solicitation.
An initial solicitation for a payee's correct TIN must be made at the time the account is opened. The term
account
includes accounts, relationships, and other transactions. However, a filer is not required to make an initial solicitation under this paragraph (f)(1)(i) with respect to a new account if the filer has the payee's TIN and uses that TIN for all accounts of the payee. For example,
see
§ 31.3406(h)-3(a) of this chapter. No additional solicitation is required after the filer receives the TIN unless the IRS or, in some cases, a broker notifies the filer that the TIN is incorrect. Following such notification the filer may be required to make an annual solicitation to obtain the correct TIN as provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii)
First annual solicitation.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, a filer must undertake an annual solicitation only if the payor has been notified of an incorrect TIN and such account contains the incorrect TIN at the time of the notification. The first annual solicitation must be made as required by paragraph (f) (2) or (3) of this section, whichever applies. An account contains an incorrect TIN at the time of notification if the name and number combination on the account matches the name and number combination set forth on the notice from the IRS or a broker. A filer may be notified of an incorrect TIN by the IRS or by a broker
pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B) or by a penalty notice issued by the IRS pursuant to section 6721. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the annual solicitation required by this paragraph (f) must be made on or before December 31 of the year in which the filer is notified of the incorrect TIN or by January 31 of the following year if the filer is notified of an incorrect TIN in the preceding December.
(iii)
Second annual solicitation.
A filer must undertake a second annual solicitation as required by paragraph (f) (2) or (3) of this section, whichever applies, if the filer is notified in any year following the year of the notification described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section that the account of a payee contains an incorrect TIN, as described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Additional requirements.
Upon receipt of a TIN, a filer must include that TIN on any information returns the original due date of which (with regard to extensions) is after the date that the filer receives the TIN.
(2)
Manner of making annual solicitation if notified pursuant to section 6721.
A filer that has been notified of an incorrect TIN by a penalty notice or other notification pursuant to section 6721 may satisfy the solicitation requirement of this paragraph (f) either by mail, in the manner set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section; by telephone, in the manner set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section; or by requesting the TIN in person.
(3)
Coordination with solicitations under section 3406(a)(1)(b).
(i) A filer that has been notified of an incorrect TIN pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B) (except filers to which § 31.3406(d)-5(b)(4)(i)(A) of this chapter applies) will satisfy the solicitation requirement of this paragraph (f) only if it makes a solicitation in the manner and within the time period required under § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) or (g)(1)(ii) of this chapter, whichever applies.
(ii) A filer that has been notified of an incorrect TIN by a notice pursuant to section 6721 (except filers to which § 31.3406(d)-5(b)(4)(i)(A) of this chapter applies) is not required to make the annual solicitation of this paragraph (f) if—
(A) The filer has received an effective notice pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B) with respect to the same payee, either during the same calendar year or for information returns filed for the same year; and
(B) The filer makes a solicitation in the manner and within the time period required under § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) or (g)(1)(ii) of this chapter, whichever applies, before the filer is required to make the annual solicitation of this paragraph (f).
(iii) A filer that has been notified of an incorrect TIN by a notice pursuant to section 6721 with respect to a fiduciary or nominee account to which § 31.3406(d)-5(b)(4)(i)(A) of this chapter applies is required to make the annual solicitation of this paragraph (f).
(4)
Failures to which a solicitation relates.
The initial solicitation relates to failures on returns filed for the year an account is opened and for any succeeding year that precedes the year in which the filer receives a notification of an incorrect TIN. The first and second annual solicitations relate to failures on returns filed for the year in which a notification of an incorrect TIN is received. The second solicitation also relates to failures on returns filed for succeeding calendar years.
(5)
Exceptions and limitations.
(i) The solicitation requirements under this paragraph (f) do not apply to the extent that an information reporting provision under which a
return,
as defined in § 301.6721-1(h), is filed provides specific requirements relating to the manner or the time period in which a TIN must be solicited. In that event, the requirements of this paragraph (f) will be satisfied only if the filer complies with the manner and time period requirement under the specific information reporting provisions and this paragraph (f), to the extent applicable.
(ii) An annual solicitation is not required to be made for a year under this paragraph (f) with respect to an account if no payments are made to the account for such year or if no
return
as defined in § 301.6721-1(h) is required to be filed for the account for such year.
(iii) If a filer fails to make one (or more) of the required solicitations under paragraph (f)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii)
of this section, the filer may satisfy the requirements of this section by:
(A) Making two consecutive annual solicitations in subsequent years (“make-up solicitations”), and
(B) Satisfying paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.
For example, a filer who has made none of the required solicitations may satisfy the requirements of this section by making two consecutive solicitations. In determining whether a filer has made two consecutive solicitations, years to which paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section applies are disregarded. If a filer fails to make the initial solicitation under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the make-up solicitations described in this paragraph (f)(5)(iii) may be made in the years in which the first and second annual solicitations are required to be made; however, the penalty will apply with respect to the year in which the filer failed to make the initial solicitation. The penalty will apply to failures in years in which a required solicitation is not made and to failures with respect to all subsequent years until the filer conducts its make-up solicitations. The penalty will not apply with respect to the year in which the first make-up solicitation is made (unless it is also the year in which the filer fails to make the initial solicitation) if the second make-up solicitation is made in the following year.
(iv) A financial institution is not required to make an annual solicitation by mail on accounts with “stop-mail” or “hold-mail” instructions, provided the filer furnishes the solicitation material to the payee in the same manner as it furnishes other mail.
(v) A filer is not required to make annual solicitations by mail on accounts with respect to which the filer has an undeliverable address,
i.e.,
where other mailings to that address have been returned to the filer because the address was incorrect and no new address has been provided to the filer.
(vi) In general, except as provided in paragraph (f)(5) (i) and (iii) of this section, no more than two annual solicitations are required under this paragraph (f) in order for a filer to establish reasonable cause. However, a filer who complies with this paragraph (f) during a calendar year after receiving a notice under section 6721 and who later during the same calendar year receives a notice pursuant to section 3406 may be required to undertake additional annual mailings in such calendar year pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B) in order to satisfy the annual solicitation requirement in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(g)
Due diligence safe harbor
—(1)
In general.
A filer may establish reasonable cause with respect to a failure relating to an information reporting requirement as described in paragraph (j) of this section if the filer exercises due diligence with respect to failures described in sections 6721 through 6723. Paragraphs (g)(2) through (7) of this section provide special rules on the exercise of due diligence with respect to TINs for an exception to a penalty under sections 6721 through 6723 for—
(i) A failure to provide a correct TIN on any—
(A)
Information return
as defined in § 301.6721-1(h);
(B)
Payee statement
as defined in § 301.6722-1(e)(2) and (3); or
(C) Document as described in § 301.6723-1(a)(4); or
(ii) The failure merely to provide a TIN as described in § 301.6723-1(a)(4)(ii).
(2)
General rule.
A filer is not subject to a penalty for failure to provide the payee's correct TIN on an information return, if the payee has certified, under penalties of perjury, that the TIN provided to the filer was the payee's correct TIN, and the filer included such TIN on the information return before being notified by the IRS (or a broker) that such TIN is incorrect.
(3)
Due diligence defined for accounts opened and instruments acquired after December 31, 1983
—(i)
In general.
For a filer of a reportable interest or dividend payment (other than in a window transaction) to be considered to have exercised
due diligence
in furnishing the correct TIN of a payee with respect to an account opened or an instrument acquired after December 31, 1983 (that is, an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account nor a window transaction), the filer must use a TIN provided by the payee under penalties of perjury on information returns filed
with the IRS. Therefore, if a filer permits a payee to open an account without obtaining the payee's TIN under penalties of perjury and files an information return with the IRS with a missing or an incorrect TIN, the filer will be liable for the $250 penalty for the year with respect to which such information return is filed. However, in its administrative discretion, the IRS will not enforce the penalty with respect to a calendar year if the certified TIN is obtained after the account is opened and before December 31 of such year, provided that the filer exercises due diligence in processing such number, that is, the filer uses the same care in processing the TIN provided by the payee that a reasonably prudent filer would use in the course of the filer's business in handling account information such as account numbers and balances.
(ii)
Notification of incorrect TIN.
Once notified by the IRS (or a broker) that a number is incorrect, a filer is liable for the penalty for all prior years in which an information return was filed with that particular incorrect number if the filer has not exercised due diligence with respect to such years. A pre-existing certified TIN does not constitute an exercise of due diligence after the IRS or a broker notifies the filer that the number is incorrect unless the filer undertakes the actions described in § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) of this chapter with respect to accounts receiving reportable payments described in section 3406(b)(1) and reported on information returns described in sections 6724(d)(1)(A)(i) through (iv).
(iii)
Inadvertent processing.
A filer described in this paragraph (g)(3) is liable for the penalty if the filer obtained a certified TIN for a payee but inadvertently processed the TIN or name incorrectly on the information return unless the filer exercised that degree of care in processing the TIN and name and in furnishing it on the information return that a reasonably prudent filer would use in the course of the filer's business in handling account information, such as account numbers and account balances.
(4)
Instruments not transferred with assistance of broker
—(i)
In general.
If a filer files an information return with a missing or an incorrect TIN with respect to an instrument transferred without the assistance of a broker, the filer will be considered to have exercised due diligence with respect to a readily tradable instrument that is not part of a pre-1984 account with the filer if the filer records on its books a transfer in which the filer was not a party. This paragraph (g)(4)(i) applies until the calendar year in which the filer receives a certified TIN from the payee.
(ii)
Solicitation of TIN not required.
A filer described in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section is not required to solicit the TIN of a payee of an account with a missing TIN in order to be considered as having exercised due diligence in a subsequent calendar year under the rule set forth in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Payee provides incorrect TIN.
If a payee provides a TIN (whether or not certified) to a filer described in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section who records on its books a transfer in which it was not a party, the filer is considered to have exercised due diligence under the rule set forth in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the transfer is accompanied with a TIN provided that the filer uses the same care in processing the TIN provided by a payee that a reasonably prudent filer would use in the course of the filer's business in handling account information, such as account numbers and account balances. Thus, a filer will not be liable for the penalty if the filer uses the TIN provided by the payee on information returns that it files, even if the TIN provided by the payee is later determined to be incorrect. However, a filer will not be considered as having exercised due diligence under paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section after the IRS or a broker notifies the filer that the number is incorrect unless the filer undertakes the required additional actions described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(5)
Filer incurred an undue hardship
—(i)
In general.
A filer of a post-1983 account or instrument is not liable for a penalty under section 6721(a) for filing an information return with a missing or an incorrect TIN if the IRS determines that the filer could have satisfied the due diligence requirements but
for the fact that the filer incurred an undue hardship. An undue hardship is an extraordinary or unexpected event such as the destruction of records or place of business of the filer by fire or other casualty (or the place of business of the filer's agent who under a pre-existing written contract had agreed to fulfill the filer's due diligence obligations with respect to the account subject to the penalty and there was no means for the obligations to be performed by another agent or the filer). Undue hardship will also be found to exist if the filer could have met the due diligence requirements only by incurring an extraordinary cost.
(ii)
Only IRS makes undue hardship determinations.
A filer must obtain a determination from the IRS to establish that the filer satisfies the undue hardship exception to the penalty under section 6721(a) for the failure to include the correct TIN on an information return for the year with respect to which the filer is subject to the penalty. A determination of undue hardship may be established only by submitting a written statement to the IRS signed under penalties of perjury that sets forth all the facts and circumstances that make an affirmative showing that the filer could have satisfied the due diligence requirements but for the occurrence of an undue hardship. Thus, the statement must describe the undue hardship and make an affirmative showing that the filer either was in the process of exercising or stood ready to exercise due diligence when the undue hardship occurred. A filer may request an undue hardship determination by submitting a written statement to the address provided with the notice proposing penalty assessment (for example, Notice 972CG) or the notice of penalty assessment (for example, CP15 or CP215), or as otherwise directed by the IRS in forms, instructions, or publications.
(6)
Acquisitions of pre-1984 accounts or instruments
—(i)
In general.
A pre-1984 account or instrument of a filer that is exchanged for an account or instrument of another filer pursuant to a statutory merger of the other filer or the acquisition of the accounts or instruments of such filer is not transformed into a post-1983 account or instrument if the merger or acquisition occurs after December 31, 1983, because the exchange occurs without the participation of the payee.
(ii)
Establishing due diligence was exercised for accounts or instruments.
The acquiring taxpayer described in this paragraph (g)(6) may rely upon the business records and past procedures of the merged filer or the filer whose accounts or instruments were acquired in order to establish that due diligence has been exercised on the acquired pre-1984 and post-1983 accounts or instruments to avoid the penalty under section 6721(a) with respect to information returns that have been or will be filed.
(7)
Limited reliance on certain pre-2001 rules.
A filer may rely on the due diligence rules set forth in 26 CFR 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3 in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (
see
26 CFR 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3, revised April 1, 1999), solely for the definitions of terms or phrases used in this paragraph (g).
(h)
Reasonable cause safe harbor after election under section 6722(c)(3)(B).
A filer may establish reasonable cause with respect to a failure relating to an information reporting requirement as described in paragraph (j) of this section under this paragraph (h) if the failure is a result of an election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i) and the presence of a de minimis error or errors as described in sections 6721(c)(3) and 6722(c)(3) and §§ 301.6721-1(e) and 301.6722-1(d) on a filed information return or furnished payee statement. This paragraph (h) applies only if the safe harbor exceptions provided for by § 301.6721-1(e)(1) or § 301.6722-1(d)(1) would have applied, but for an election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i). To establish reasonable cause and not willful neglect under this paragraph (h), the filer must file a corrected information return or furnish a corrected payee statement, or both, as applicable, within 30 days of the date of the election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i). Where specific rules provide for additional time in which to furnish a corrected payee statement and file a corrected information return, the 30-day rule does not apply and the specific rules will apply.
See
for example §§ 31.6051-1(c) through (d) and 31.6051-2(b). If the filer rectifies the failure
outside of this 30-day period, the determination of reasonable cause will be on a case-by-case basis.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Failures to which this section relates.
For purposes of this section, a failure relating to an information reporting requirement means—
(1) A failure described under § 301.6721-1(a)(2) relating to the failure to file timely correct information returns as defined in section 6724(d)(1),
(2) A failure described under § 301.6722-1(a)(2) relating to the failure to furnish timely a correct payee statement as defined in section 6724(d)(2), and
(3) A failure described under § 301.6723-1(a)(2) relating to the failure to timely comply with and to include correct specified information as defined in section 6724(d)(3).
(k)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:
(1)
Example 1
—(i)
Facts.
On August 1, 2023, Individual A, an independent contractor, establishes a relationship (account) with Institution L, which pays A amounts reportable under section 6041. When A opens the account L requests that A supply his TIN on the account creation document. A fails to provide his TIN. On October 2, 2023, L mails a solicitation for A's TIN that satisfies the requirement of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. A does not provide a TIN to L during 2023. L timely files an information return subject to section 6721, that does not contain A's TIN, for payments made during the 2023 calendar year with respect to A's account. A penalty is imposed on L, pursuant to § 301.6721-1(a)(2), for L's failure to file a correct information return because A's TIN was not shown on the return. The penalty will be waived, however, if L establishes that the failure was due to reasonable cause as defined in this section.
(ii)
Analysis.
To establish reasonable cause under this section, L must satisfy both paragraphs (c)(6) and (d) of this section. The criteria for obtaining a waiver under paragraphs (c)(6) and (d) of this section are as follows:
(A) L acted in a responsible manner in attempting to satisfy the information reporting requirement as described in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(B) L demonstrates that the failure arose from events beyond L's control, as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(iii)
Analysis (continued).
Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, L may demonstrate that it acted in a responsible manner only by complying with paragraph (e) of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section requires a filer to request a TIN at the time the account is opened (the initial solicitation) and, if the filer does not receive the TIN at that time, to solicit the TIN on or before December 31 of the year the account is opened (for accounts opened before December) or January 31 of the following year (for accounts in the preceding December) (the annual solicitation). Because L has performed these solicitations within the time and in the manner prescribed by paragraph (e) of this section, L has acted in a responsible manner as described in paragraph (d) of this section. L satisfies paragraph (c)(6) of this section because under the facts, L can show that the failure was caused by A's failure to provide a TIN, an event beyond L's control. As a result, L has established reasonable cause under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Therefore, the penalty imposed under § 301.6721-1(a)(2) for the failure on the 2023 information return is waived.
See
section 3406(a)(1)(A), which requires L to impose backup withholding on reportable payments to A if L has not received A's TIN.
(2)
Example 2
—(i)
Facts.
On August 1, 2023, Individual B opens an account with Bank M, which pays B interest reportable under section 6049. When B opens the account, M requests that B supply his TIN on the account creation document. B provides his TIN to M. On February 28, 2024, M includes the TIN that B provided on the Form 1099-INT,
Interest Income,
for the 2023 calendar year. In October 2024 the IRS, pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B), notifies M that the 2023 return filed for B contains an incorrect TIN. In April 2025 a penalty is imposed on M, pursuant to § 301.6721-1(a)(2), for M's failure to file a correct information return for the 2023 calendar year, that is, the return did not contain B's correct TIN. The penalty
will be waived, however, if M establishes that the failure was due to reasonable cause as defined in this section.
(ii)
Analysis.
To establish reasonable cause under this section, M must satisfy the criteria in both paragraphs (c)(6) and (d) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, M can demonstrate that it acted in a responsible manner only if M complies with paragraph (f) of this section. Paragraph (f) of this section requires a filer to request a TIN at the time the account is opened, an initial solicitation. Under paragraph (f)(4) of this section the initial solicitation relates to failures on returns filed for the year an account is opened. Because M performed the initial solicitation in 2023 in the time and manner prescribed in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section and reflected the TIN received from B on the 2023 return as required by paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, M has acted in a responsible manner as described in paragraph (d) of this section. M satisfies paragraph (c)(6) of this section because, under the facts, M can show that the failure was caused by B's failure to provide a correct TIN, an event beyond M's control. As a result, M has established reasonable cause under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Therefore, the penalty imposed under § 301.6721-1(a)(2) for the failure on the 2023 information return is waived.
See
section 3406(a)(1)(B), which requires M to impose backup withholding on reportable payments to B if M has not received B's correct TIN.
(3)
Example 3
—(i)
Table.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(k)(3)(i)
2023
2/2024
10/2024
2/2025
Account opened (solicits TIN)
2023 return filed
B-notice with respect to 2023 return
2024 return filed.
4/2025
10/2025
2/2026
4/2026
6721 penalty notice for 2023 return
B-notice with respect to 2024 return
2025 return filed
6721 penalty notice for 2024.
(ii)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section (
Example 2
). Under § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) of this chapter and paragraph (f)(3) of this section, within 15 days of the October 2024 notification of the incorrect TIN from the IRS, M solicits the correct TIN from B. B fails to respond. M timely files the return for 2024 with respect to the account setting forth B's incorrect TIN. In October 2025 the IRS notifies M, pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B), that the 2024 return contains an incorrect TIN. In April 2026, a penalty is imposed on M pursuant to § 301.6721-1(a)(2) for M's failure to include B's correct TIN on the return for 2024. The penalty will be waived, if M establishes that the failure was due to reasonable cause as defined in this section.
(iii)
Analysis.
M must satisfy the reasonable cause criteria in paragraphs (c)(6) and (d) of this section. M may demonstrate that it acted in a responsible manner as required under paragraph (d) of this section only by complying with paragraph (f) of this section. Paragraph (f) of this section requires a filer to make an initial solicitation for a TIN when an account is opened. Further, a filer must make an annual solicitation for a TIN by mail within 15 business days after the date that the IRS notifies the filer of an incorrect TIN pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B). M made the initial solicitation for the TIN in 2023 and, after being notified of the incorrect TIN in October 2024, the first annual solicitation within the time and manner prescribed by § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) of this chapter and paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(2) of this section. M acted in a responsible manner. M satisfies paragraph (c)(6) of this section because, under the facts, M can show that the failure was caused by B's failure to provide his correct TIN, an event beyond M's control. As a result M has established reasonable cause under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Therefore,
the penalty imposed under § 301.6721-1(a)(2) for the failure on the 2024 return is waived due to reasonable cause.
(4)
Example 4
—(i)
Table.
Table 2 to Paragraph
(k)(4)(i)
2023
2/2024
10/2024
2/2025
Account opened (solicits TIN)
2023 return filed
B-notice with respect to 2023 return
2024 return filed.
4/2025
10/2025
2/2026
4/2026
6721 penalty notice for 2023 return
B-notice with respect to 2024 return
2025 return filed
6721 penalty notice for 2024 return.
(ii)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (k)(3)(ii) of this section (
Example 3
). M timely solicits B's TIN in October 2025, which B fails to provide. M files the return for 2025 with the incorrect TIN. In April 2027 the IRS informs M that the 2025 return contains an incorrect TIN. M does not solicit a TIN from B in 2026 and files a return for 2026 with B's incorrect TIN. M seeks a waiver of the penalty under § 301.6721-1(a)(2) for reasonable cause.
(iii)
Analysis.
M must satisfy the reasonable cause criteria in paragraphs (c)(6) and (d) of this section. Because M made the initial and two annual solicitations as required by paragraph (f) of this section, M has demonstrated that it acted in a responsible manner and is not required to solicit B's TIN in 2026.
See
paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section. M satisfies paragraph (c)(6) of this section because, under the facts, M can show that the failure was caused by B's failure to provide his correct TIN, an event beyond M's control. Therefore, M has established reasonable cause under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(5)
Example 5
—(i)
Facts.
In 2023, Mortgage Finance Company N lends money to C to purchase property in a transaction subject to reporting under section 6050H. As part of the transaction, C gives N a promissory note providing for repayment of principal and the payment of interest. At the time C incurs the obligation N requests C's TIN, as required under § 1.6050H-2(f) of this chapter. C fails to provide the TIN as required by § 1.6050H-2(f) of this chapter. N sends solicitations by mail in 2023 and 2024 for the missing TIN, which C fails to provide. However, for 2025 N fails to send the solicitation required by § 1.6050H-2(f) of this chapter. N files returns for the 2023, 2024, and 2025 calendar years pursuant to section 6050H without C's TIN.
(ii)
Analysis.
Although N made the initial and the first annual solicitations in 2023 and the second annual solicitation in 2024, N did not solicit the TIN in 2025 as required under section 6050H, which requires continued annual solicitations until the TIN is obtained. Therefore, under paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(A) of this section the penalty imposed under § 301.6721-1(a) for the 2025 information return is not waived.
(6)
Example 6
—(i)
Table.
Table 3 to Paragraph
(k)(6)(i)
10/2023
2/2024
10/2024
2/2025
Account opened. (solicits TIN)
2023 return filed
B-notice with respect to 2023 return
2024 return filed.
4/2025
10/2025
2/2026
4/2026
6721 penalty notice for 2023 return
B-notice with respect to 2024 return
2025 return filed
6721 penalty notice for 2024 return.
(ii)
Facts.
On October 2, 2023, Individual E opens an account with Institution R, which pays E amounts reportable under section 6049. When E opens the account, R requests that E supply
his TIN on an account creation document, which E does. Pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, R uses the TIN furnished by E on the information return filed for the 2023 calendar year. In October 2024 the IRS notifies R, pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B), that the information return filed for E for the 2023 calendar year contained an incorrect TIN. At the time R receives this notification, E's account contains the incorrect TIN. On December 31, 2024, R telephones E pursuant to paragraphs (f)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section and receives different TIN information from E. R uses this information on the return that it files timely for E for the 2024 calendar year, that is, in February 2025. In April 2025, the IRS notifies R, pursuant to § 301.6721-1(a)(2), that the information return filed for the 2023 calendar year contains an incorrect TIN. The penalty will be waived, however, if R establishes the failure was due to reasonable cause as defined in this section.
(iii)
Analysis.
To establish reasonable cause under this section, R must satisfy the criteria in both paragraphs (c)(6) and (d)(2) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, R can demonstrate that it acted in a responsible manner only if it complies with paragraph (f) of this section. R solicited E's TIN at the time the account was opened (initial solicitation). Under paragraphs (d)(2) and (f)(4) of this section, the initial solicitation relates to failures on returns filed for the year in which an account is opened (that is, 2023) and for subsequent years until the calendar year in which the filer receives a notification of an incorrect TIN pursuant to section 3406. Because E failed to provide the correct TIN upon request, the failure arose from events beyond R's control as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. Therefore, the penalty with respect to the failure on the 2023 calendar year information return is waived due to reasonable cause.
(7)
Example 7
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (k)(6)(ii) of this section (
Example 6
). In April 2026 the IRS notifies R, pursuant to § 301.6721-1(a)(2), that the information return filed for the 2024 calendar year for E contained an incorrect TIN.
(ii)
Analysis.
To establish reasonable cause for the failure under this section, R must satisfy the criteria in both paragraphs (c)(6) and (d)(2) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, R may establish that it acted in a responsible manner only by complying with paragraph (f) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, R must make an annual solicitation after being notified of an incorrect TIN if the payee's account contains the incorrect TIN at the time of the notification. Paragraph (f)(3) of this section provides that if the filer is notified, pursuant to section 3406(a)(1)(B), the time and manner of making an annual solicitation is that required under § 31.3406(d)-5(g)(1)(ii) of this chapter. Section 31.3406(d)-5(g)(1)(ii) of this chapter requires R to notify E by mail within 15 business days after the date of the notice from the IRS, which R failed to do. As a result, R has failed to act in a responsible manner with respect to the failure on the 2024 information return, and the penalty will not be waived due to reasonable cause.
(8)
Example 8
—(i)
Facts.
On January 31, 2024, Institution Q timely furnishes Form 1099-MISC,
Miscellaneous Information,
to Individual F. Also on January 31, 2024, Q timely files a corresponding Form 1099-MISC with the IRS. On March 15, 2024, Q becomes aware of de minimis errors (within the meaning of § 301.6722-1(d)(2)) made on the Form 1099-MISC furnished to F and filed with the IRS. On March 20, 2024, F makes an election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i) with respect to the Form 1099-MISC that Q furnished to F. Q furnishes a corrected Form 1099-MISC to F and files a corrected Form 1099-MISC with the IRS by April 19, 2024, which date is 30 days from March 20, 2024.
(ii)
Analysis.
The election by F and the presence of de minimis errors on the Forms 1099-MISC make the penalties under sections 6721 and 6722 applicable to Q.
See
§§ 301.6721-1(e)(3) and 301.6722-1(d)(3). Q, however, rectified the failures within 30 days of March 20, 2024, the date F made the election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i) with respect to the Form 1099-MISC that Q furnished to F. Therefore, under paragraph (h) of
this section, Q is considered to have established reasonable cause, and under section 6724 and paragraph (a)(1) of this section the penalties under sections 6721 and 6722 are waived.
(9)
Example 9
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (k)(8)(i) of this section (
Example 8
), except that Q does not become aware of de minimis errors made on the Form 1099-MISC furnished to F and filed with the IRS until June 26, 2024. Additionally, Q furnishes the corrected Form 1099-MISC to F and files the corrected Form 1099-MISC with the IRS after June 26, 2024, but by July 26, 2024, which date is 30 days from June 26, 2024.
(ii)
Analysis.
As in the example in paragraph (k)(8) of this section, the election by F and the presence of de minimis errors on the Forms 1099-MISC make the penalties under sections 6721 and 6722 applicable to Q. Additionally, because Q did not furnish a corrected Form 1099-MISC to F and file a corrected Form 1099-MISC with the IRS within 30 days of the date of F's election under § 301.6722-1(d)(3)(i), paragraph (h) of this section does not apply. However, Q may be able to demonstrate reasonable cause under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. As part of this demonstration, for example, Q may be able to demonstrate that Q acted in a responsible manner under paragraph (d)(1) of this section by rectifying the failure (that is, the de minimis errors) within 30 days of discovery.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Procedure for seeking a waiver.
In seeking an administrative determination that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, the filer must submit a written statement to the address provided with the notice proposing penalty assessment (for example, Notice 972CG) or the notice of penalty assessment (for example, CP15 or CP215), or as otherwise directed by the IRS in forms, instructions or publications. The statement must—
(1) State the specific provision under which the waiver is being requested, that is, paragraph (b) or under paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) or paragraph (h) of this section;
(2) Set forth all the facts alleged as the basis for reasonable cause;
(3) Contain the signature of the person required to file the return; and
(4) Contain a declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury. See § 1.6061-1 of the Income Tax Regulations for the rules on the signing of returns.
(n)
Manner of payment.
The penalty due under sections 6721 through 6723 shall be paid upon notice and demand by IRS, and in the same manner as a tax liability is paid.
(o)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (o)(2) and (3) of this section, this section applies with respect to information returns required to be filed and payee statements required to be furnished on or after January 1, 2024.
See
26 CFR 301.6724-1, as revised April 1, 2023, for rules applicable prior to January 1, 2024, except as provided in paragraphs (o)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2)
Paragraph (g).
Paragraph (g) of this section applies with respect to
information returns
as defined in section 6724(d)(1) required to be filed,
payee statements
as defined in section 6724(d)(2) required to be furnished, and specified information as described in section 6724(d)(3) required to be reported on or after January 1, 2024.
See
26 CFR 301.6724-1(g), as revised April 1, 2023, for rules applicable prior to January 1, 2024.
(3)
Paragraph (h).
Paragraph (h) of this section applies with respect to information returns required to be filed and payee statements required to be furnished after January 4, 2017.
[T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991, and amended by T.D. 8409, 57 FR 13035, Apr. 15, 1992; T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53496, Oct. 14, 1997; T.D. 8804, 63 FR 72189, Dec. 31, 1998; T.D. 8856, 64 FR 73413, Dec. 30, 1999; T.D. 9055, 68 FR 22595, Apr. 29, 2003; T.D. 9136, 69 FR 41943, July 13, 2004; T.D. 9699, 79 FR 63812, Oct. 27, 2014; T.D. 9984, 88 FR 87708, Dec. 19, 2023]

# Regulations Applicable to Information Returns and Payee Statements the Due Date for Which (Without Regard to Extensions) Is After December 31, 1986, and Before January 1, 1990
§ 301.6751(b)-1
Supervisory and higher level official approval for penalties.
(a)
Approval requirement
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph
(a)(2) of this section, section 6751(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) generally bars the assessment of a penalty unless the initial determination of the assessment of the penalty is personally approved (in writing) by the immediate supervisor of the individual making the initial determination or such higher level official as the Secretary of the Treasury or her delegate may designate. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section lists penalties not subject to section 6751(b)(1) and this paragraph (a)(1). Paragraph (a)(3) of this section provides definitions of terms used in section 6751(b) and this section. Paragraph (a)(4) of this section designates the higher level officials described in this paragraph (a)(1). Paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section apply section 6751(b)(1) and this paragraph (a)(1) to penalties not subject to pre-assessment review in the United States Tax Court (Tax Court), penalties that are subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court, and penalties raised in the Tax Court after a petition is filed, respectively. Paragraph (e) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of section 6751(b) and this section. Paragraph (f) of this section provides dates of applicability of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
Under section 6751(b)(2), section 6751(b)(1) and this section do not apply to:
(i) Any penalty under section 6651, 6654, 6655, 6673, 6662(b)(9), or 6662(b)(10) of the Code; or
(ii) Any other penalty automatically calculated through electronic means.
(3)
Definitions.
For purposes of section 6751(b) and this section, the following definitions apply—
(i)
Penalty.
The term
penalty
means any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount under the Code.
(ii)
Individual who first proposed the penalty.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(3)(ii), the
individual who first proposed the penalty
is the individual who section 6751(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section reference as the individual making the initial determination of a penalty assessment. For purposes of this section, a proposal of a penalty can be made only to either a taxpayer (or the taxpayer's representative) or to the individual's supervisor or designated higher level official. A proposal of a penalty, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, to a taxpayer does not include mere requests for information relating to a possible penalty or inquiries of whether a taxpayer wants to participate in a general settlement initiative for which the taxpayer may be eligible, but does include offering the taxpayer an opportunity to agree to a particular penalty in a particular amount other than a penalty under a settlement initiative offered to a class of taxpayers. An individual who first proposed the penalty is not the individual whom section 6751(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section reference as the individual making the initial determination of a penalty assessment if the assessment of the penalty is attributable to an independent proposal made by a different individual.
(iii)
Immediate supervisor.
The term
immediate supervisor
means any individual with responsibility to review another individual's proposal of penalties, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, without the proposal being subject to an intermediary's approval.
(iv)
Higher level official.
The term
higher level official
means any person designated under paragraph (a)(4) of this section as a higher level official authorized to approve a penalty for purposes of section 6751(b)(1).
(v)
Personally approved (in writing).
The term
personally approved (in writing)
means any writing, including in electronic form, made by the writer to signify the writer's assent. No signature or particular words are required so long as the circumstances of the writing reflect that it was intended as approval.
(vi)
Automatically calculated through electronic means.
A penalty, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, is
automatically calculated through electronic means
if an IRS computer program automatically generates a notice to the taxpayer that proposes the penalty. If a taxpayer responds in writing or otherwise to the automatically-generated notice and challenges the proposed penalty, or the amount of tax to which the proposed penalty is attributable, and an IRS employee considers
the response prior to assessment (or the issuance of a notice of deficiency that includes the penalty), then the penalty is no longer considered “automatically calculated through electronic means.”
(4)
Higher level official.
Any person who has been directed by the Internal Revenue Manual or other assigned job duties to approve another individual's proposal of penalties before they are included in a pre-assessment notice prerequisite to Tax Court jurisdiction, an answer, amended answer, or amendment to the answer to a Tax Court petition, or are assessed without need for such inclusion, is designated as a higher level official authorized to approve the penalty for purposes of section 6751(b)(1).
(b)
Penalties not subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court.
The requirements of section 6751(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section are satisfied for a penalty that is not subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court if the immediate supervisor of the individual who first proposed the penalty personally approves the penalty in writing before the penalty is assessed. Alternatively, a person designated as a higher level official as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may provide the approval otherwise required by the immediate supervisor.
(c)
Penalties subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court.
The requirements of section 6751(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section are satisfied for a penalty that is included in a pre-assessment notice that provides a basis for Tax Court jurisdiction upon timely petition if the immediate supervisor of the individual who first proposed the penalty personally approves the penalty in writing on or before the date the notice is mailed. Alternatively, a person designated as a higher level official as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may provide the approval otherwise required by the immediate supervisor. Examples of a pre-assessment notice described in this paragraph (c) include a statutory notice of deficiency under section 6212 of the Code, a notice of final partnership administrative adjustment under former section 6223 of the Code, and a notice of final partnership adjustment under section 6231 of the Code.
(d)
Penalties raised in the Tax Court after a petition.
The requirements of section 6751(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section are satisfied for a penalty that the Commissioner raises in the Tax Court after a petition (
see
section 6214(a) of the Code) if the immediate supervisor of the individual who first proposed the penalty personally approves the penalty in writing no later than the date on which the Commissioner requests that the court determine the penalty. Alternatively, a person designated as a higher level official as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may provide the approval otherwise required by the immediate supervisor.
(e)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.
(1)
Example 1.
In the course of an audit regarding a penalty not subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court, Revenue Agent A concludes that Taxpayer T should be subject to the penalty under section 6707A of the Code for failure to disclose a reportable transaction. Revenue Agent A sends T a letter giving T the option to agree to the penalty; submit additional information to A about why the penalty should not apply; or request within 30 days that the matter be sent to the Independent Office of Appeals (Appeals) for consideration. After T requests that Appeals consider the case, A prepares the file for transmission, and B (who is A's immediate supervisor, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section) signs a cover memorandum informing Appeals of the proposed penalty and asks Appeals to consider it. The Appeals Officer upholds the penalty, and it is assessed. The requirements of section 6751(b)(1) are satisfied because B's signature on the cover memorandum is B's personal written assent to the penalty proposed by A and was given before the penalty was assessed.
(2)
Example 2.
In the course of an audit, Revenue Agent A concludes that Taxpayer T should be subject to an accuracy-related penalty for substantial understatement of income tax under section 6662(b)(2). Revenue Agent A
sends T a Letter 915, Examination Report Transmittal, along with an examination report that includes the penalty. The Letter 915 gives T the option to agree to the examination report; provide additional information to be considered; discuss the report with A or B (who is A's immediate supervisor, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section); or request a conference with an Appeals Officer. T agrees to assessment of the penalty and signs the examination report to consent to the immediate assessment and collection of the amounts shown on the report. B provides written supervisory approval of the penalty after T signs the examination report, but before the penalty is assessed. Paragraph (b) of this section applies because T's agreement to assessment of the penalty excepts it from pre-assessment review in the Tax Court. Because B provided written supervisory approval before assessment of the penalty, the requirements of section 6751(b)(1) are satisfied.
(3)
Example 3.
In the course of an audit of Taxpayer T by a team of revenue agents, Revenue Agent A concludes that T should be subject to an accuracy-related penalty for negligence under section 6662(b)(1) and (c). Supervisor B is the issue manager and is assigned the duty to review the Notice of Proposed Adjustment for any penalty A would propose. Revenue Agent A reports to B, but B is not responsible for the overall management of the audit of T. C is the case manager of the team auditing T and is responsible for the overall management of the audit of T. C may assign tasks to A and other team members, and has responsibility for approving any examination report presented to T.
(i)
Alternative Outcome 1:
Only B approves the penalty in writing before the mailing to T of a notice of deficiency that includes the penalty. Under paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, B qualifies as the immediate supervisor of A with respect to A's penalty proposal, and the requirements of section 6751(b)(1) are met.
(ii)
Alternative Outcome 2:
Only C approves the penalty in writing before the mailing to T of a notice of deficiency that includes the penalty. Because C has responsibility to approve A's proposal of the penalty as part of approving the examination report, C qualifies as a higher level official designated under paragraph (a)(4) of this section to approve the penalty proposed by A, and the requirements of section 6751(b)(1) are met.
(4)
Example 4.
In the course of an audit, Revenue Agent A concludes that Taxpayer T should be subject to a penalty for negligence under section 6662(c). Revenue Agent A recommends the penalty to her immediate supervisor B, who thinks more factual development is needed to support the penalty but must close the audit immediately due to the limitations period on assessment expiring soon. The IRS issues a statutory notice of deficiency without the penalty and T files a petition in the Tax Court. In reviewing the case file and conducting discovery, IRS Chief Counsel Attorney C concludes that the facts support imposing a negligence penalty under section 6662(c). Attorney C proposes to her immediate supervisor, D, that the penalty should apply and should be raised in an Answer pursuant to section 6214(a). D agrees and signs the Answer that includes the penalty before it is filed. The section 6662(c) penalty at issue is subject to pre-assessment review in the Tax Court and was raised in the Tax Court after a petition was filed under paragraph (d) of this section. Therefore, written supervisory approval under paragraph (d) of this section was required prior to filing the written pleading that includes the penalty. Attorney C is the individual who first proposed the penalty for purposes of section 6751(b)(1) and paragraphs (d) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section, and she secured timely written supervisory approval from D, the immediate supervisor, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section. As a result, the requirements of section 6751(b)(1) are met. Revenue Agent A did not make the initial determination of the penalty assessment because any assessment would not be attributable to A's proposal but would be based on the independent proposal of Attorney C raised pursuant to section 6214(a).
(5)
Example 5.
In the course of an audit, Revenue Agent A concludes that
Taxpayer T should be subject to a penalty for negligence under section 6662(c). Revenue Agent A includes the penalty in a draft report that she sends for review to her immediate supervisor B. B reviews A's recommendation and notices that A did not consider whether a penalty for a substantial understatement of income tax under section 6662(d) should apply in the alternative. B sends an email to A telling her to “add a section 6662(d) penalty if the math checks out.” Revenue Agent A reviews the facts, determines that the imposition of the section 6662(d) penalty is warranted, and adds the penalty to a report she issues to the taxpayer. Revenue Agent A is the individual who first proposed both of the penalties for purposes of section 6751(b)(1) and paragraphs (d) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section because she is the individual who first proposed the penalty to the taxpayer. Supervisor B did not make the initial determination of the section 6662(d) penalty because, even though she first thought of and suggested it, she did not propose it to the taxpayer or her supervisor (or designated higher level official).
(6)
Example 6.
The IRS's Automated Underreporter (AUR) computer program detects a discrepancy between the information received from a third party and the information contained on Taxpayer T's return. AUR automatically generates a CP2000, Notice of Underreported Income, that includes an adjustment based on the unreported income and a proposed penalty under section 6662(d) that is mailed to T. The CP2000 gives T 30 days to respond to contest the proposed adjustments and the penalty. T submits a response to the CP2000, asking only for more time to respond. More time is granted but no further response is received from T, and a statutory notice of deficiency that includes the adjustments and the penalty is automatically generated and issued to T. The section 6662(d) penalty at issue is automatically calculated through electronic means under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(3)(vi) of this section. The penalty was proposed by the AUR computer program, which generated a notice to T that proposed the penalty. Although T submitted a response to the CP2000, the response did not challenge the proposed penalty, or the amount of tax to which the proposed penalty is attributable. Therefore, the penalty was automatically calculated through electronic means and written supervisory approval was not required.
(f)
Applicability date.
The rules of this section apply to penalties assessed on or after December 23, 2024.
[T.D. 10017, 89 FR 104423, Dec. 23, 2024]

# General Provisions Relating to Stamps
§ 301.6801-1
Authority for establishment, alteration, and distribution.
(a)
Establishment and alteration.
The Commissioner may establish, and from time to time alter, renew, replace, or change the form, style, character, material, and device of any stamp, mark, or label under any provision of the law relating to internal revenue.
(b)
Preparation and distribution of forms, stamps and dies.
The Commissioner shall prepare and distribute all the instructions, directions, forms, blanks, and stamps; and shall provide proper and sufficient adhesive stamps and other stamps or dies for expressing and denoting the several stamp taxes.
§ 301.6802-1
Supply and distribution.
(a)
Postmaster General.
The Commissioner shall furnish to the Postmaster General, without prepayment, a suitable quantity of adhesive stamps (other than the stamps on playing cards), coupons, tickets, or such other devices as may be prescribed pursuant to section 6302(b) (authorizing a discretionary method for collecting certain specified taxes) or chapter 69 of the Code, to be distributed to, and kept on sale by, the various postmasters in the United States in all post offices of the first and second classes, and such post offices of the third and fourth classes as are located in county seats or Postmaster General as necessary.
(b)
Designated depositary of the United States.
The district director for the district in which any designated depositary of the United States is located shall furnish to such designated depositary, without prepayment, a suitable
quantity of adhesive stamps to be kept on sale by the designated depositary.
(c)
State agents.
Any person who is duly appointed and acting as agent of any State for the sale of stock transfer stamps of such State may make application to the district director for the district in which the State agent is located, to be designated for the purpose of being furnished without prepayment, for sale, stamps to be used in payment of the tax imposed by section 4301. The application shall contain the location and post office address of the State agent, and the maximum amount of stamps he desires to maintain on hand. A copy of the agent's appointment as State agent should be attached to the application.
§ 301.6803-1
Accounting and safeguarding.
In cases coming within the provisions of section 6802 (2) and (3) and paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 301.6802-1, the district director may require a bond in such amount as he deems advisable, conditioned for the faithful return, whenever so required, of all quantities or amounts of adhesive stamps undisposed of and for the payment monthly for all quantities or amounts of adhesive stamps sold or not remaining on hand. Such bond shall be furnished in accordance with the provisions contained in section 7101 and § 301.7101-1.
§ 301.6804-1
Attachment and cancellation.
For provisions relating to the attachment and cancellation of specific stamps used with respect to a particular tax, see the regulations relating to such tax.
§ 301.6805-1
Redemption of stamps.
(a)
Authorization.
(1) Upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the facts by the district director or director of the service center, he may make allowance for or redeem stamps issued under the authority of any internal revenue law if—
(i) The stamps have been spoiled, destroyed, or rendered useless or unfit for the purpose intended, or
(ii) The owner of the stamps has no use therefor.
(2) If a stamp has been in use for any period of time, it may not be redeemed under section 6805. Similarly, no allowance shall be made for stamps which have been lost or stolen.
(b)
Method and conditions of allowance.
Such allowance or redemption may be made, either by giving other stamps in lieu of the stamps so allowed for or redeemed, or by refunding the amount or value to the owner thereof, deducting therefrom, in case of repayment, the percentage, if any, allowed to the purchaser thereof. Claims for the redemption of or allowance for stamps shall be made on Form 843 and filed with the district director or director of the service center within three years from the date of the purchase of the stamps from the Government. The stamps for which redemption or allowance is claimed shall be submitted with the claim. If the stamps are destroyed or damaged to the extent that they cannot be presented for redemption or allowance, proof satisfactory to the district director or director of the service center that they have been destroyed or so damaged must accompany the claim before allowance or redemption shall be made. In any case where the actual date of purchase of the stamps from the Government cannot be established, it must be definitely shown in the claim whether they were so purchased within three years prior to the date of filing of the claim.
(c)
Time for filing claims.
No claim for the redemption of, or allowance for, stamps shall be allowed under this section unless presented within 3 years after the purchase of such stamps from the Government.
(d)
Finality of decisions.
The findings of fact in and the decision of the district director or director of the service center upon the merits of any claim presented under or authorized by this section, shall in the absence of fraud or mistake in mathematical calculation, be final and not subject to revision by any accounting officer.
[T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12795, June 29, 1972]
§ 301.6806-1
Posting occupational tax stamps.
For provisions relating to the posting of specific stamps used with respect to a particular tax, other than a special
tax under subchapter B of chapter 35, subchapter B of chapter 36, or subtitle E, see the regulations relating to such tax. For penalties for failure to post occupational tax stamps, see section 7273.
[T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12795, June 29, 1972]

# Jeopardy, Bankruptcy, and Receiverships

# Jeopardy

# termination of taxable year
§ 301.6851-1
Termination of taxable year.
For regulations under section 6851, see §§ 1.6851-1 to 1.6851-3, inclusive, of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
§ 301.6852-1
Termination assessments of tax in the case of flagrant political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations.
(a)
Authority for making.
Any assessment under section 6852 as a result of a flagrant violation by a section 501(c)(3) organization of the prohibition against making political expenditures must be authorized by the District Director.
(b)
Determination of income tax.
An organization shall be subject to an assessment of income tax under section 6852 only if the flagrant violation of the prohibition against making political expenditures results in revocation of the organization's tax exemption under section 501(a) because it is not described in section 501(c)(3). An organization subject to such an assessment is not liable for income taxes for any period prior to the effective date of the revocation of the organization's tax exemption.
(c)
Payment.
Where a District Director has made a determination of income tax under paragraph (b) of this section or of section 4955 excise tax, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any tax will become immediately due and payable. The taxpayer is required to pay the amount of the assessment within 10 days after the District Director sends the notice and demand for immediate payment regardless of the filing of an administrative appeal or of a court petition. Regardless of filing an administrative appeal or of petitioning a court, enforced collection action may proceed after the 10-day payment period unless the taxpayer posts the bond described in section 6863. For purposes of collection procedures such as section 6331 (regarding levy), assessments under the authority of paragraph (a) of this section do not constitute situations in which the collection of such tax is in jeopardy and, therefore, do not suspend normal collection procedures.
(d)
Effective date.
This section is effective December 5, 1995.
[T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62212, Dec. 5, 1995]

# jeopardy assessments
§ 301.6861-1
Jeopardy assessments of income, estate, gift, and certain excise taxes.
(a)
Authority for making.
If a district director or director of a service center believes that the assessment or collection of a deficiency in income, estate, gift, or chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax will be jeopardized by delay, then the director is required to assess such deficiency immediately, together with the interest, additional amounts, and additions to the tax provided by law. A district director will make an assessment under this section if collection is determined to be in jeopardy because at least one of the conditions described in § 1.6851-1(a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) (relating to termination assessments) exists. A jeopardy assessment may be made before or after the mailing of the notice of deficiency provided by section 6212. However, a jeopardy assessment for a taxable year under section 6861 cannot be made after a decision of the Tax Court with respect to such taxable year has become final (see section 7481) or after the taxpayer has filed a petition for review of the decision of the Tax Court with respect to such taxable year. In the case of a deficiency determined by a decision of the Tax Court which has become final or with respect to which the taxpayer has filed a petition for review and has not filed a bond as provided in section 7485, assessment may be made in accordance with the provisions of section 6215, without regard to section 6861.
(b)
Amount of jeopardy assessment.
If a notice of a deficiency is mailed to the
taxpayer before it is discovered that delay would jeopardize the assessment or collection of the tax, a jeopardy assessment may be made in an amount greater or less than that included in the deficiency notice. If a deficiency is assessed on account of jeopardy after the decision of the Tax Court is rendered, the jeopardy assessment may be made only with respect to the deficiency determined by the Tax Court.
(c)
Jurisdiction of Tax Court.
If the jeopardy assessment is made before the notice in respect of the tax to which the jeopardy assessment relates has been mailed pursuant to section 6212(a), the district director shall, within 60 days after the making of the assessment, send the taxpayer a notice of deficiency pursuant to such subsection. The taxpayer may file a petition with the Tax Court for a redetermination of the amount of the deficiency within the time prescribed in section 6213(a). If the petition of the taxpayer is filed with the Tax Court, either before or after the making of the jeopardy assessment, the Commissioner, through his counsel, is required to notify the Tax Court of such assessment or of any abatement thereof, and the Tax Court has jurisdiction to redetermine the amount of the deficiency, together with all other amounts assessed at the same time in connection therewith.
(d)
Payment and collection of jeopardy assessment.
After a jeopardy assessment has been made, the district director is required to send notice and demand to the taxpayer for the amount of the jeopardy assessment. Regardless of whether the taxpayer has filed a petition with the Tax Court, he is required to make payment of the amount of such assessment (to the extent that it has not been abated) within 10 days after the sending of notice and demand by the district director, unless before the expiration of such 10-day period he files with the district director a bond as provided in section 6863. Section 6331 provides that, if the district director makes a finding that the collection of the tax is in jeopardy, he may make demand for immediate payment of the amount of the jeopardy assessment and, in such case, the taxpayer shall immediately pay such amount or shall immediately file the bond provided in section 6863. If a petition is not filed with the Tax Court within the period prescribed in section 6213(a), the district director will be so advised, and, if collection of the deficiency has been stayed by the timely filing of a bond as provided in section 6863, he should then give notice and make demand for payment of the amount assessed plus interest. After the Tax Court has rendered its decision and such decision has become final, the district director will be notified of the action taken. He will then send notice and demand for payment of the unpaid portion of the amount determined by the Tax Court, the collection of which has been stayed by the bond. If the amount of the jeopardy assessment is less than the amount determined by the Tax Court, the difference will be assessed and collected as part of the tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor. If the amount of the jeopardy assessment is in excess of the amount determined by the Tax Court, the unpaid portion of such excess will be abated. If any part of the excess amount has been paid, it will be credited or refunded to the taxpayer as provided in section 6402, without the filing of claim therefor.
(e)
Abatement of excessive assessment.
The district director or the director of the regional service center may, at any time before the decision of the Tax Court is rendered, abate a jeopardy assessment in whole or in part if the district director believes that such assessment is excessive in amount.
(f)
Abatement if jeopardy does not exist.
(1) The district director or the director of the regional service center may abate a jeopardy assessment in whole or in part, if it is shown to the satisfaction of the district director that jeopardy does not exist. An abatement may not be made under this paragraph after a decision of the Tax Court in respect of the deficiency has been rendered or, if no petition is filed with such court, after the expiration of the period for filing such petition.
(2) After abatement of a jeopardy assessment in whole or in part, a deficiency may be assessed and collected in the manner authorized by law as if the jeopardy assessment or part thereof so
abated had not existed. If a notice of deficiency has been sent to the taxpayer before the abatement of the jeopardy assessment in whole or in part, whether such notice was sent before or after the making of the assessment, such abatement will not affect the validity of the notice or of any proceedings for redetermination based thereon. The period of limitation on the making of assessments and the beginning of levy or a proceeding in court for collection in respect of any deficiency shall be determined as if the jeopardy assessment so abated had not been made, except that the running of such period shall in any event be suspended for the period from the date of such jeopardy assessment until the expiration of the tenth day after the date on which such jeopardy assessment is abated in whole or in part. The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
On March 18, 1958, 28 days before the last day of the 3-year period of limitations on assessment, a jeopardy assessment is made in respect of a proposed deficiency. On May 2, 1958, before the mailing of the notice of deficiency provided by section 6861(b), this assessment is abated. By virtue of this subparagraph, the last day of the period of limitations for the making of an assessment is June 9, 1958, that is, the 38th day after the date of the abatement. If the notice of deficiency provided for in section 6861(b) has been sent before the abatement, the running of the period of limitations on assessment would have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of the section 6503(a).
(3) See section 7429 with respect to requesting the district director to review the making of the jeopardy assessment.
(g)
Special rules for chapters 42 and 43 taxes.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the amount of a deficiency with respect to any tax imposed by section 4941(a), 4942(a), 4943(a), 4944(a), 4945(a), 4951(a), 4952(a), 4955(a), 4971(a) or 4975(a) shall include the amount of additional tax imposed by section 4941(b), 4942(b), 4943(b), 4944(b), 4945(b), 4951(b), 4952(b), 4955(b), 4971(b) or 4975(b) for failure to correct the act (or failure to act) which gave rise to liability for the initial tax.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7575, 43 FR 58817, Dec. 18, 1978; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44253, Oct. 7, 1982; T.D. 8084, 51 FR 16305, May 2, 1986; T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995]
§ 301.6862-1
Jeopardy assessment of taxes other than income, estate, gift, and certain excise taxes.
(a) If the district director believes that the collection of any tax (other than income, estate, gift, chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax) will be jeopardized by delay, the director shall, whether or not the time otherwise prescribed by law for filing the return or paying such tax has expired, immediately assess such tax, together with all interest, additional amounts and additions to the tax provided by law. A district director will make an assessment under this section if collection is determined to be in jeopardy because at least one of the conditions described in § 1.6851-1(a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) (relating to termination assessments) exists. For example, assume that a taxpayer incurs on January 18, 1977, liability for tax imposed by section 4061, that the last day on which return and payment of such tax is required to be made is May 2, 1977, and that on January 18, 1977, the district director determines that collection of such tax would be jeopardized by delay. In such case, the district director shall immediately assess the tax.
(b) The tax, interest, additional amounts, and additions to the tax will, upon assessment, become immediately due and payable, and the district director shall, without delay, issue a notice and demand for payment thereof in full. Upon failure or refusal to pay the amount demanded, collection thereof by levy shall be lawful without regard to the 10-day period provided in section 6331 (a). However, the collection of the whole or any part of the amount of the jeopardy assessment may be stayed by timely filing with the district director a bond as provided in section 6863.
(c) See section 7429 with respect to requesting the district director to review the making of the jeopardy assessment.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7575, 43 FR 58817, Dec. 18, 1978; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44253, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 301.6863-1
Stay of collection of jeopardy assessments; bond to stay collection.
(a)
General rule.
(1) The collection of an assessment under section 6851, 6861, or 6862 (referred to as a “jeopardy assessment” for purposes of this section), or under section 6852 (referred to as a political assessment for purposes of this section) of any tax may be stayed by filing with the district director a bond on the form to be furnished by the district director upon request.
(2) The bond may be filed—
(i) At any time before the time collection by levy is authorized under section 6331(a), or
(ii) After collection by levy is authorized and before levy is made on any property or rights to property, or
(iii) In the discretion of the district director, after any such levy has been made and before the expiration of the period of limitations on collection.
(3) The bond must be in an amount equal to the portion (including interest thereon to the date of payment as calculated by the district director) of the jeopardy assessment or political assessment collection of which is sought to be stayed. See section 7101 and § 301.7101-1, relating to the form of bond and the sureties thereon. The bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of the amount (together with interest thereon), the collection of which is stayed, at the time at which, but for the making of the jeopardy assessment, such amount would be due.
(4) Upon the filing of a bond in accordance with this section, the collection of so much of the assessment as is covered by the bond will be stayed. The taxpayer may at any time waive the stay of collection of the whole or any part of the amount covered by the bond. If as a result of such waiver any part of the amount covered by the bond is paid, or if any portion of the jeopardy assessment or political assessment is abated by the district director, then the bond shall be at the request of the taxpayer be proportionately reduced.
(b)
Additional conditions applicable to income, estate, gift, and chapter 41, 42, 43 and 44 tax assessments.
In the case of jeopardy assessment or political assessment of income, estate, gift, chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax, the bond must be conditioned upon the payment of so much of the amount included therein as is not abated by a decision of the Tax Court which has become final, together with the interest on such amount. If the Tax Court determines that the amount assessed is greater than the correct amount of the tax, the bond will be proportionately reduced at the request of the taxpayer after the Tax Court renders its decision. If the bond is given before the taxpayer has filed his petition with the Tax Court, it must contain a further condition that if a petition is not filed before the expiration of the period provided in section 6213(a) for the filing of such petition the amount stayed by the bond will be paid upon notice and demand at any time after the expiration of such period, together with interest thereon at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 from the date of the jeopardy (or political assessment) notice and demand to the date of the notice and demand made after the expiration of the period for filing petition with the Tax Court.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7384, 40 FR 49325, Oct. 22, 1975; T.D. 7575, 43 FR 58817, Dec. 18, 1978; T.D. 7838, 47 FR 44253, Oct. 7, 1982; T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995]
§ 301.6863-2
Collection of jeopardy assessment; stay of sale of seized property pending Tax Court decision.
(a)
General rule.
In the case of an assessment under section 6851, 6852, 6861, or 6862, any property seized for the collection of such assessment shall not (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) be sold until the latest of the following occurs:
(1) The period provided in section 7429(a)(2) to request the district director to review the action taken expires.
(2) The period provided in section 7429(b)(1) to file an action in U.S. District Court expires if a request for a redetermination is made to the district director.
(3) The U.S. District Court judgment in such action becomes final, if a civil action is begun in accordance with section 7429(b).
(4) In addition to the occurrences described in paragraphs (a), (1), (2), and (3) of this section, in the case of an assessment of income, estate, gift, chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 excise taxes, until the latest of the following occurs:
(i) The expiration of the period provided in section 6213(a) within which the taxpayer may file a petition with the Tax Court; or
(ii) The decision of the Tax Court becomes final, if a petition for redetermination is filed with the Tax Court (whether before or after the making of the assessment).
However, notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, in the case of a termination assessment under section 6851, property seized may be sold after the due date (determined with extensions) of the taxpayer's return if the taxpayer does not file a return by such date. Furthermore, for the purposes of paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, a petition will not operate as a further stay of the sale of the seized property unless the taxpayer files a bond as provided in section 7485.
(b)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, any property seized may be sold—
(1) If the taxpayer files with the district director a written consent to the sale, or
(2) If the district director determines that the expenses of conservation and maintenance of the property will greatly reduce the net proceeds from the sale of such property, or
(3) If the property is of a type to which section 6336 (relating to sale of perishable goods) is applicable.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7575, 43 FR 58817, Dec. 18, 1978; T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995]
§ 301.6867-1
Presumptions where owner of large amount of cash is not identified.
(a)
General rule.
For purposes of section 6851 (relating to termination assessments) and section 6861 (relating to jeopardy assessments), if cash in excess of $10,000 is found in the physical possession of an individual who does not claim either ownership of that cash or ownership by some other person whose identity the Commissioner can readily ascertain and who acknowledges ownership of that cash as of the date the cash was found, then, it shall be presumed that—
(1) The cash represents gross income of an unknown single individual; and
(2) That the collection of tax on that income will be jeopardized by delay.
(b)
Rules for assessment.
The Commissioner may make an assessment pursuant to section 6851 or section 6861, as appropriate, using the rules for assessment specified in this paragraph. In the case of any assessment resulting from the application of paragraph (a) of this section—
(1) The entire amount of cash is treated as taxable income for the taxable year in which the cash is found;
(2) The income is treated as taxable at the highest rate of tax specified in section 1 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c), the possessor of the cash is treated (solely with respect to that cash) as the taxpayer for purposes of chapters 63 and 64 and section 7429(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(c)
Effect of later substitution of true owner
—(1)
In general.
If an assessment resulting from the application of paragraph (a) of this section is later abated and replaced by an assessment against the true owner of the cash, the later assessment is treated for purposes of all laws relating to lien, levy, and collection as relating back to the date of the original assessment. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any notice and review provided for by section 7429 and the notice of deficiency issued to the true owner relative to the later assessment are to be made within the prescribed time limits, using the actual date of the later assessment against the true owner.
(2)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
On June 5, 1994, A is found in possession of a bag, containing $200,000, which A claims he was holding for a friend whose name A cannot remember. Because A does not claim ownership of the cash and does not provide the name of the true owner so that the Commissioner can identify the true owner and have that person acknowledge ownership of the cash, it is presumed that the cash represents gross income of an individual for calendar year 1994, and that the collection of tax on that gross income will be jeopardized by delay. Accordingly, on June 17, 1994, a termination assessment under section 6851 is made against A, in his capacity as possessor of the cash. On June 21, 1994, the written statement of information provided for by section 7429(a)(1) is given to A. No request for review under section 7429(a)(2) is made by the true owner within 30 days after the day on which A was furnished the written statement provided for in section 7429(a)(1). Subsequently, individual B comes to the Service and states that he is the owner of the cash. On September 2, 1994, the Service determines that B was the true owner of the cash on June 5, 1994. On September 9, 1994, the Service abates the termination assessment made against A solely as possessor of cash and, after determining that jeopardy exists, replaces it with a termination assessment under section 6851 against B. The lien against B that arises under section 6321 is treated as arising on June 17, 1994. However, within 5 days after September 9, 1994, the Service must give B the written statement of information required by section 7429(a)(1) so that B can make a request for review under section 7429(a)(2). In addition, a notice of deficiency must be sent to B within 60 days after the later of the due date or the actual filing of B's tax return for 1994, as required by section 6851(b).
(d)
Rights of possessor of cash
—(1)
Action permitted.
Section 6867 provides that the possessor of cash is treated as the taxpayer for purposes of chapter 63 (relating to assessment) and chapter 64 (relating to collection) of the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, the possessor of cash may file a petition with the United States Tax Court, within the applicable time limits, challenging the notice of deficiency issued to the possessor solely in that person's capacity as possessor of cash.
(2)
Actions not permitted.
Section 6867 provides that the possessor of cash is treated as the taxpayer solely for purposes of section 7429(a)(1), and is entitled to the written statement of information provided for by that section. The possessor of cash is not treated as the taxpayer for purposes of sections 7429(a)(2) and 7429(b), relating to administrative and judicial review of termination and jeopardy assessments, and may not maintain an action under section 7429 for such review. The possessor of cash is not treated as the taxpayer for purposes of section 7422, relating to civil actions for refund, or chapter 65 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to abatements, credits, and refunds, and may not institute a suit for refund in district court after the deficiency has been collected.
(e)
Rights of true owner of cash
—(1)
Actions permitted.
The true owner of cash may request administrative review under section 7429(a)(2) and may maintain a civil action under section 7429(b) for judicial review of an assessment under section 6851 or section 6861 made against the possessor solely in that person's capacity as possessor of cash. Such an action, however, must be preceded by a request for review under section 7429(a)(2) made by the true owner within 30 days after the day on which the possessor is furnished the written statement provided for in section 7429(a)(1). In addition, after the deficiency asserted against the possessor of cash has been levied upon, the true owner of cash may bring an action in federal district court to recover the cash, as provided in section 7426, relating to civil actions by persons other than taxpayers. See, however, section 6532(c), relating to the 9-month statute of limitations for suits under section 7426. In addition, the true owner of cash, with the permission of the court, may appear before the United States Tax Court in any proceeding that may be filed by the possessor of the cash challenging the notice of deficiency issued to the possessor solely in that person's capacity as possessor of the cash.
(2)
Actions not permitted.
The true owner of cash may not file a petition with the United States Tax Court challenging the notice of deficiency issued to the possessor solely in that person's capacity as possessor of cash. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the true owner of cash may file a petition
with the United States Tax Court challenging any notice of deficiency issued to the true owner following the abatement of the assessment made against the possessor of cash.
(f)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section and section 6867—
(1)
Cash.
The term
cash
includes any cash equivalents.
(2)
Cash equivalent
—(i)
In general.
The term
cash
equivalent includes foreign currency, any bearer obligation, and any medium of exchange that is of a type that has been frequently used in illegal activities, as listed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Specific cash equivalents.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(i), the following are also cash equivalents—
(A) Coins;
(B) Precious metals;
(C) Jewelry;
(D) Precious stones;
(E) Postage stamps;
(F) Traveler's checks in any form;
(G) Negotiable instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, notes, and money orders) that are either in bearer form, endorsed without restriction, made out to a fictitious payee, or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery;
(H) Incomplete instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, notes, and money orders) signed but with the payee's name omitted; and
(I) Securities or stock in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.
(iii)
Value of cash equivalents.
A cash equivalent is taken into account at its fair market value except in the case of a bearer obligation, in which case it is taken into account at its face value.
(3)
Possessor of cash.
An individual is considered to be the possessor of cash if the cash is found on that individual's person or in that individual's possession or is found in any object, container, vehicle, or area under that individual's custody or control.
(4)
True owner of the cash.
The true owner of cash is the individual who beneficially owns the cash on the date such cash is found in the physical possession of the individual described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. An agent, bailee, or other custodian of the cash is not the true owner of cash. A true owner of cash does not include an individual who, subsequent to the date on which the cash is found in the physical possession of the individual described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, obtains ownership of the cash by purchase, subrogation, descent, or other means.
(g)
Effective date.
This section is effective with respect to cash found in the physical possession of an individual on or after August 3, 1995.
[T.D. 8605, 60 FR 39654, Aug. 3, 1995]

# Bankruptcy and Receiverships
§ 301.6871(a)-1
Immediate assessment of claims for income, estate, and gift taxes in bankruptcy and receivership proceedings.
(a) Upon (1) the adjudication of bankruptcy of any taxpayer in any liquidating proceeding, (2) the filing with a court of competent jurisdiction or (where approval is required by the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C. Chapters 1-14) the approval of a petition of, or the approval of a petition against, any taxpayer in any other proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act, or (3) the appointment of any receiver for any taxpayer in a receivership proceeding before any court of the United States or of any State or Territory or of the District of Columbia, the district director shall immediately assess any deficiency of income, estate, or gift tax (together with all interest, additional amounts, or additions to the tax provided by law), determined by him, if such deficiency has not heretofore been assessed in accordance with law. Such assessment shall be made immediately, whether or not a notice of deficiency has been issued, and without regard to the restrictions upon assessment under section 6213.
(b) As used in this section and §§ 301.6871(a)-2 to 301.6873-1, inclusive, the term “proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act” includes a proceeding under chapters I to VII, inclusive, of the Bankruptcy Act, or under section 75 or 77 (11 U.S.C. 203, 205), or chapters X to XIII, inclusive, of such Act, or any other proceeding under the Act.
§ 301.6871(a)-2
Collection of assessed taxes in bankruptcy and receivership proceedings.
(a) During a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. chapters 1-14) or a receivership proceeding in either a Federal or State court, generally the assets of the taxpayer are under the control of the court in which such proceeding is pending, and the collection of taxes cannot be made by levying upon such assets. However, any assets which under applicable provisions of law are not under the control of the court may be subject to levy. See paragraph (b) of this section and § 301.6871(b)-1 with respect to claims for such taxes. See section 6873 with respect to collection of unpaid claims.
(b) District directors should, promptly after ascertaining the existence of any outstanding liability against a taxpayer in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or in any receivership proceeding, and in any event within the time limited by the appropriate provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, or by the appropriate orders of the court in which such proceeding is pending, file proof of claim covering such liability in the court in which such proceeding is pending. Such proof of claim should be filed whether the unpaid taxes involved have been assessed or not, except in cases where the instructions of the Commissioner direct otherwise; for example, where the payment of the taxes is secured by a sufficient bond. At the same time proof of claim is filed with the bankruptcy or receivership court, the district director will send notice and demand for payment to the taxpayer, together with a copy of such proof of claim.
(c) Under sections 3466 and 3467 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 191, 192) and section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. 104), taxes are entitled to the priority over other claims therein specified, and the trustee, receiver, debtor in possession, or other person designated as in control of the assets of the debtor by the court in which the proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or receivership proceeding is pending, may be held personally liable for failure on his part to protect the priority of the Government respecting taxes of which he has notice. Sections 75(l), 77(e), 199, 337(2), 455, and 659(6) of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. 203(l), 205(e), 599, 737(2), 855, and 1059(6)) also contain provisions with respect to the rights of the United States relative to priority of payment. For the filing of returns by a trustee in bankruptcy or by a receiver, see section 6012(b)(3) and 28 U.S.C. 960. Bankruptcy courts have jurisdiction under the Bankruptcy Act to determine all disputes regarding the amount and validity of taxes claimed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act. A proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or a receivership proceeding does not discharge any portion of a claim of the United States for taxes except in the case of a proceeding under section 77 or chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act. However, the claim may be settled or compromised as in other cases in court.
(d) For the requirement that a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or other like fiduciary give notice as to his qualification as such, see section 6036 and the regulations thereunder.
§ 301.6871(b)-1
Claims for income, estate, and gift taxes in proceedings under the Bankruptcy Act and receivership proceedings; claim filed despite pendency of Tax Court proceedings.
(a) If it is determined that a deficiency is due in respect of income, estate, or gift tax and the taxpayer has filed a petition with the Tax Court before (1) the adjudication of bankruptcy in any liquidating proceeding, (2) the filing with a court of competent jurisdiction or (where approval is required by the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C. chapters 1-14) the approval of a petition of, or the approval of a petition against, any taxpayer in any other proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act, or (3) the appointment of a receiver, the trustee, receiver, debtor in possession, or other like fiduciary, may, upon his own motion, be made a party to the Tax Court proceeding and thereafter may prosecute the appeal before the Tax Court as to that particular determination. No petition shall be filed with the Tax Court for a redetermination of the deficiency after the adjudication of bankruptcy, the filing or (where approval is required by the Bankruptcy Act) the
approval of a petition of, or the approval of a petition against, any taxpayer in any other bankruptcy proceeding, or the appointment of the receiver.
(b) Even though the determination of a deficiency is pending before the Tax Court for redetermination, proof of claim for the amount of such deficiency may be filed with the court in which the proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or receivership proceeding is pending without awaiting final decision of the Tax Court. In case of a final decision of the Tax Court before the payment or the disallowance of the claim in the proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or receivership proceeding, a copy of the Tax Court's decision may be filed by the district director with the court in which such proceeding is pending.
(c) While a district director is required by section 6871(a) and paragraph (a) of § 301.6871(a)-1 to make immediate assessment of any deficiency, such assessment is not made as a jeopardy assessment within the meaning of section 6861, and consequently the provisions of that section do not apply to any assessment made under section 6871. Therefore, the notice of deficiency provided in section 6861(b) will not be mailed. Although such notice will not be issued, a letter will be sent to the taxpayer or to the trustee, receiver, debtor in possession, or other like fiduciary, notifying him in detail how the deficiency was computed, that he may furnish evidence showing wherein the deficiency is incorrect, and that upon request he will be granted a conference by the district director with respect to such deficiency. However, such letter will not provide for such a conference where a petition was filed with the Tax Court before (1) the adjudication of bankruptcy in a liquidating proceeding, (2) the filing with a court of competent jurisdiction or (where approval is required by the Bankruptcy Act), the approval of a petition of, or the approval of a petition against, any taxpayer in any other proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act, or (3) the appointment of a receiver.
§ 301.6872-1
Suspension of running of period of limitations on assessment.
If any fiduciary in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. chapters 1-14), including a trustee, receiver, or debtor in possession, or a receiver in any other court proceeding is required, pursuant to section 6036, to give notice in writing to the district director of his qualification as such, then the running of the period of limitations on assessment shall be suspended from the date the proceeding is instituted to the date such notice is received by the district director, and for an additional 30 days thereafter. However, the suspension under this section of the running of the period of limitation on assessment shall in no case exceed 2 years.
§ 301.6873-1
Unpaid claims in bankruptcy or receivership proceedings.
(a) If any portion of the claim allowed by the court in a receivership proceeding, or in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. chs. 1-14) remains unpaid after the termination of such proceeding, the district director will send notice and demand for payment thereof to the taxpayer. Such unpaid portion with interest as provided in section 6601 may be collected from the taxpayer by levy or proceeding in court within the period of limitation for collection after assessment. For the general rule as to such period of limitation, see section 6502, and for suspension of the running of the period provided in section 6502, see, for example, section 6503. For suspensions under other provisions of law, see, for example, section 11f of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. 29(f)). Extension of time for the payment of such unpaid amount may be granted in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations as provided in section 6161(c).
(b) Section 6873 is applicable only where a claim for taxes is allowed in a receivership proceeding or in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act. Claims for taxes, interest, additional amounts, or additions to the tax may be collectible in equity or under other provisions of law although no claim was allowed in the proceeding because,
for example, such items were not included in a proof of claim filed in the proceeding or no proof of claim was filed. Except in the case of a proceeding under section 77 or chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, a tax or a liability in respect thereof is not discharged by a proceeding under such act, whether or not a claim is filed in such proceeding, and provisions suspending the running of the period of limitation on the collection of taxes are applicable, whether or not a claim is filed in such proceeding.

# Transferees and Fiduciaries
§ 301.6901-1
Procedure in the case of transferred assets.
(a)
Method of collection
—(1)
Income, estate, and gift taxes.
The amount for which a transferee of property of—
(i) A taxpayer, in the case of a tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code (relating to income taxes),
(ii) A decedent, in the case of the estate tax imposed by chapter 11 of the Code, or
(iii) A donor, in the case of the gift tax imposed by chapter 12 of the Code, is liable, at law or
in equity, and the amount of the personal liability of a fiduciary under section 3467 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 192), in respect of the payment of such taxes, whether shown on the return of the taxpayer or determined as a deficiency in the tax, shall be assessed against such transferee or fiduciary and paid and collected in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations as in the case of a deficiency in the tax with respect to which such liability is incurred, except as hereinafter provided.
(2)
Other taxes.
The liability, at law or in equity, of a transferee of property of any person liable in respect of any other tax, in any case where the liability of the transferee arises on the liquidation of a corporation or partnership, or a corporate reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a), shall be assessed against such transferee and paid and collected in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations as in the case of the tax with respect to which such liability is incurred, except as hereinafter provided.
(3)
Applicable provisions.
The provisions of the Code made applicable by section 6901(a) to the liability of a transferee or fiduciary referred to in subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (a), include the provisions relating to:
(i) Delinquency in payment after notice and demand and the amount of interest attaching because of such delinquency;
(ii) The authorization of distraint and proceedings in court for collection;
(iii) The prohibition of claims and suits for refund; and
(iv) In any instance in which the liability of a transferee or fiduciary is one referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), the filing of a petition with the Tax Court of the United States and the filing of a petition for review of the Tax Court's decision.
For detailed provisions relating to assessments, collections, and refunds, see chapters 63, 64, and 65 of the Code, respectively.
(b)
Definition of transferee.
As used in this section, the term “transferee” includes an heir, legatee, devisee, distributee of an estate of a deceased person, the shareholder of a dissolved corporation, the assignee or donee of an insolvent person, the successor of a corporation, a party to a reorganization as defined in section 368, and all other classes of distributees. Such term also includes, with respect to the gift tax, a donee (without regard to the solvency of the donor) and, with respect to the estate tax, any person who, under section 6324(a)(2), is personally liable for any part of such tax.
(c)
Period of limitation on assessment.
The period of limitation for assessment of the liability of a transferee or of a fiduciary is as follows:
(1)
Initial transferee.
In the case of the liability of an initial transferee, one year after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer in the case of a tax imposed by subtitle A (relating to income taxes), the executor in the case of the estate tax imposed by chapter 11, or the donor in the case of the gift tax imposed by chapter 12, each of which for purposes of this section is referred to
as the “taxpayer” (see subchapter A, chapter 66, of the Code).
(2)
Transferee of transferee.
In the case of the liability of a transferee of a transferee, 1 year after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the preceding transferee, or 3 years after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer, whichever of such periods first expires.
(3)
Court proceeding against taxpayer or last preceding transferee.
If, before the expiration of the period specified in subparagraph (1) or subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (c), (whichever is applicable), a court proceeding against the taxpayer or last preceding transferee for the collection of the tax or liability in respect thereof, respectively, has been begun within the period of limitation for the commencement of such proceeding, then within one year after the return of execution in such proceeding.
(4)
Fiduciary.
In the case of the liability of a fiduciary, not later than 1 year after the liability arises or not later than the expiration of the period for collection of the tax in respect of which such liability arises, whichever is the later.
(d)
Extension by agreement
—(1)
Extension of time for assessment.
The time prescribed by section 6901 for the assessment of the liability of a transferee or fiduciary may, prior to the expiration of such time, be extended for any period of time agreed upon in writing by the transferee or fiduciary and the district director or an assistant regional commissioner. The extension shall become effective when the agreement has been executed by both parties. The period agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
(2)
Extension of times for credit or refund.
(i) For the purposes of determining the period of limitation on credit or refund to the transferee or fiduciary of overpayments made by such transferee or fiduciary or overpayments made by the taxpayer to which such transferee or fiduciary may be legally entitled to credit or refund, an agreement and any extension thereof referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (d), shall be deemed an agreement and extension thereof for purposes of section 6511(c) (relating to limitations on credit or refund in case of extension of time by agreement).
(ii) For the purpose of determining the limit specified in section 6511(c)(2) on the amount of the credit or refund, if the agreement is executed after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer with reference to whom the liability of such transferee or fiduciary arises, the periods specified in section 6511(b)(2) shall be increased by the period from the date of such expiration to the date the agreement is executed. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Assume that Corporation A files its income tax return on March 15, 1955, for the calendar year 1954, showing a liability of $100,000 which is paid with the return. The period within which an assessment may be made against Corporation A expires on March 15, 1958. Corporation B is a transferee of Corporation A. An agreement is executed on October 9, 1958, extending, beyond its normal expiration date of March 15, 1959, the period within which an assessment may be made against Corporation B. Under section 6511(c)(2) and section 6511(b)(2)(A) the portion of an overpayment, paid before the execution of an agreement extending the period for assessment, may not be credited or refunded unless paid within three years prior to the date on which the agreement is executed. However, as applied to Corporation B such 3-year period is increased under section 6901(d)(2) to include the period from March 15, 1958, to October 9, 1958, the date on which the agreement was executed.
(e)
Period of assessment against taxpayer.
For the purpose of determining the period of limitation for assessment against a transferee or a fiduciary, if the taxpayer is deceased, or, in the case of a corporation, has terminated its existence, the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer shall be the period that would be in effect had the death or termination of existence not occurred.
(f)
Suspension of running of period of limitations.
In the cases of the income, estate, and gift taxes, if a notice of liability of a transferee or the liability of a fiduciary has been mailed to such transferee or to such fiduciary under the provisions of section 6212, then the running of the statute of limitations
shall be suspended for the period during which assessment is prohibited in respect of liability of the transferee or fiduciary (and in any event, if a proceeding in respect of the liability is placed on the docket of the Tax Court, until the decision of the Tax Court becomes final), and for 60 days thereafter.
§ 301.6902-1
Burden of proof.
In proceedings before the Tax Court the burden of proof shall be upon the Commissioner to show that a petitioner is liable as a transferee of property of a taxpayer, but not to show that the taxpayer was liable for the tax.
§ 301.6903-1
Notice of fiduciary relationship.
(a)
Rights and obligations of fiduciary.
Every person acting for another person in a fiduciary capacity shall give notice thereof to the district director in writing. As soon as such notice is filed with the district director such fiduciary must, except as otherwise specifically provided, assume the powers, rights, duties, and privileges of the taxpayer with respect to the taxes imposed by the Code. If the person is acting as a fiduciary for a transferee or other person subject to the liability specified in section 6901, such fiduciary is required to assume the powers, rights, duties, and privileges of the transferee or other person under that section. The amount of the tax or liability is ordinarily not collectible from the personal estate of the fiduciary but is collectible from the estate of the taxpayer or from the estate of the transferee or other person subject to the liability specified in section 6901.
(b)
Manner of notice
—(1)
Notices filed before April 24, 2002.
This paragraph (b)(1) applies to notices filed before April 24, 2002. The notice shall be signed by the fiduciary, and shall be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office where the return of the person for whom the fiduciary is acting is required to be filed. The notice must state the name and address of the person for whom the fiduciary is acting, and the nature of the liability of such person; that is, whether it is a liability for tax, and, if so, the type of tax, the year or years involved, or a liability at law or in equity of a transferee of property of a taxpayer, or a liability of a fiduciary under section 3467 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 192) in respect of the payment of any tax from the estate of the taxpayer. Satisfactory evidence of the authority of the fiduciary to act for any other person in a fiduciary capacity must be filed with and made a part of the notice. If the fiduciary capacity exists by order of court, a certified copy of the order may be regarded as satisfactory evidence. When the fiduciary capacity has terminated, the fiduciary, in order to be relieved of any further duty or liability as such, must file with the Internal Revenue Service office with whom the notice of fiduciary relationship was filed written notice that the fiduciary capacity has terminated as to him, accompanied by satisfactory evidence of the termination of the fiduciary capacity. The notice of termination should state the name and address of the person, if any, who has been substituted as fiduciary. Any written notice disclosing a fiduciary relationship which has been filed with the Commissioner under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 or any prior revenue law shall be considered as sufficient notice within the meaning of section 6903. Any satisfactory evidence of the authority of the fiduciary to act for another person already filed with the Commissioner or district director need not be resubmitted.
(2)
Notices filed on or after April 24, 2002.
This paragraph (b)(2) applies to notices filed on or after April 24, 2002. The notice shall be signed by the fiduciary, and shall be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center where the return of the person for whom the fiduciary is acting is required to be filed. The notice must state the name and address of the person for whom the fiduciary is acting, and the nature of the liability of such person; that is, whether it is a liability for tax, and if so, the type of tax, the year or years involved, or a liability at law or in equity of a transferee of property of a taxpayer, or a liability of a fiduciary under 31 U.S.C. 3713(b), in respect of the payment of any tax from the estate of the taxpayer. The fiduciary must retain
satisfactory evidence of his or her authority to act for any other person in a fiduciary capacity as long as the evidence may become material in the administration of any internal revenue law.
(c)
Where notice is not filed.
If the notice of the fiduciary capacity described in paragraph (b) of this section is not filed with the district director before the sending of notice of a deficiency by registered mail or certified mail to the last known address of the taxpayer (see section 6212), or the last known address of the transferee or other person subject to liability (see section 6901(g)), no notice of the deficiency will be sent to the fiduciary. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2. In such a case the sending of the notice to the last known address of the taxpayer, transferee, or other person, as the case may be will be a sufficient compliance with the requirements of the Code, even though such taxpayer, transferee, or other person is deceased, or is under a legal disability, or, in the case of a corporation, has terminated its existence. Under such circumstances, if no petition is filed with the Tax Court of the United States within 90 days after the mailing of the notice (or within 150 days after mailing in the case of such a notice addressed to a person outside the States of the Union and the District of Columbia) to the taxpayer, transferee, or other person, the tax, or liability under section 6901, will be assessed immediately upon the expiration of such 90-day or 150-day period, and demand for payment will be made. See paragraph (a) of § 301.6213-1 with respect to the expiration of such 90-day or 150-day period.
(d)
Definition of fiduciary.
The term “fiduciary” is defined in section 7701(a)(6) to mean a guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver, conservator, or any person acting in any fiduciary capacity for any person.
(e)
Applicability of other provisions.
This section, relating to the provisions of section 6903, shall not be taken to abridge in any way the powers and duties of fiduciaries provided for in other sections of the Code.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2821, Jan. 12, 2001; T.D. 8989, 67 FR 20032, Apr. 24, 2002; T.D. 9040, 68 FR 4921, Jan. 31, 2003]
§ 301.6905-1
Discharge of executor from personal liability for decedent's income and gift taxes.
(a)
Discharge of liability.
With respect to decedents dying after December 31, 1970, the executor of a decedent's estate may make written application to the applicable internal revenue officer with whom the estate tax return is required to be filed, as provided in § 20.6091-1 of this chapter, for a determination of the income or gift taxes imposed upon the decedent by subtitle A or by chapter 12 of the Code, and for a discharge of personal liability therefrom. If no estate tax return is required to be filed, then such application should be filed where the decedent's final income tax return is required to be filed. The application must be filed after the return with respect to such income or gift taxes is filed. Within 9 months (1 year with respect to the estate of a decedent dying before January 1, 1974) after receipt of the application, the executor shall be notified of the amount of the income or gift tax and, upon payment thereof, he will be discharged from personal liability for any deficiency in income or gift tax thereafter found to be due. If no such notification is received, the executor is discharged at the end of such 9 months (1 year with respect to the estate of a decedent dying before January 1, 1974) period from personal liability for any deficiency thereafter found to be due. The discharge of the executor under this section from personal liability applies only to him in his personal capacity and to his personal assets. The discharge is not applicable to his liability as executor to the extent of the assets of the estate in his possession or control. Further, the discharge does not operate as a release of any part of the property from the lien provided under section 6321 or the special lien provided under subsection (a) or (b) of section 6324.
(b)
Definition of “executor”.
For purposes of this section, the term “executor” means the executor or administrator of the decedent appointed, qualified, and acting within the United States.
(c)
Cross reference.
For provisions concerning the discharge of the executor from personal liability for estate taxes imposed by chapter 11 of the Code, see section 2204 and the regulations thereunder.
[T.D. 7238, 37 FR 28742, Dec. 29, 1972]

# Licensing
§ 301.7001-1
License to collect foreign items.
(a)
In general.
Any bank or agent undertaking as a matter of business or for profit the collection of foreign items must obtain a license from the district director for the district in which is located its principal place of business within the United States. For definitions of the terms “foreign item” and “collection”, see paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Foreign item.
The term “foreign item” as used in this section, means any item of interest upon the bonds of a foreign country or of a nonresident foreign corporation not having a fiscal or paying agent in the United States (including Puerto Rico as if a part of the United States), or any item of dividends upon the stock of such corporation.
(2)
Collection.
The term “collection” as used in this section, includes the following:
(i) The payment by the licensee of the foreign item in cash;
(ii) The crediting by the licensee of the account of the person presenting the foreign item;
(iii) The tentative crediting by the licensee of the account of the person presenting the foreign item until the amount of the foreign item is received by the licensee from abroad; and
(iv) The receipt of foreign items by the licensee for the purpose of transmitting them abroad for deposits.
(c)
Application for license.
Application for the license required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be made in writing and shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and present business of the person, partnership (including names of all partners), or corporation applying for the license;
(2) The address of the applicant's principal place of business in the United States and of any branch offices in the United States;
(3) The date on which the applicant intends to commence the collection of foreign items; and
(4) An estimate of the aggregate amount of annual collections of foreign items (in dollars).
The application shall be signed by the applicant (a partner, in the case of a partnership, or an officer, in the case of a corporation).
(d)
Issuance of license.
The license will be issued by the district director in letter form without cost to the licensee.
(e)
Previous license holders.
Any person who has been issued a license under the corresponding provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, or any prior revenue law, is not required to renew such license under this section.
(f)
Returns of information as to foreign items.
For provisions relating to the filing of returns as to foreign items, see section 6041(b) and § 1.6041-4 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).

# Bonds
§ 301.7101-1
Form of bond and security required.
(a)
In general.
Any person required to furnish a bond under the provisions of the Code (other than section 6803(a)(1), relating to bonds required of certain postmasters before June 6, 1972, and section 7485, relating to bonds to stay assessment and collection of a deficiency pending review of a Tax Court decision), or under any rules or regulations prescribed under the Code, shall (except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section) execute such bond—
(1) On the appropriate form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service (which may be obtained from the district director), and
(2) With satisfactory surety.
For provisions as to what will be considered “satisfactory surety”, see paragraph (b) of this section. The bonds referred to in this paragraph shall be drawn in favor of the United States.
(b)
Satisfactory surety
—(1)
Approved surety company or bonds or notes of the United States.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a bond shall be considered executed with satisfactory surety if:
(i) It is executed by a surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds; or
(ii) It is secured by bonds or notes of the United States as provided in 6 U.S.C. 15 (see 31 CFR part 225).
(2)
Other surety acceptable in discretion of district director.
Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Code, or the regulations thereunder, a bond may, in the discretion of the district director, be considered executed with satisfactory surety if, in lieu of being executed or secured as provided in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (b), it is:
(i) Executed by a corporate surety (other than a surety company) provided such corporate surety establishes that it is within its corporate powers to act as surety for another corporation or an individual;
(ii) Executed by two or more individual sureties, provided such individual sureties meet the conditions contained in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b);
(iii) Secured by a mortgage on real or personal property;
(iv) Secured by a certified, cashier's, or treasurer's check drawn on any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the United States or any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, or by a U.S. postal, bank, express or telegraph money order;
(v) Secured by corporate bonds or stocks, or by bonds issued by a State or political subdivision thereof, of recognized stability; or
(vi) Secured by any other acceptable collateral. Collateral shall be deposited with the district director or, in his discretion, with a responsible financial institution acting as escrow agent.
(3)
Conditions to be met by individual sureties.
If a bond is executed by two or more individual sureties, the following conditions must be met by each such individual surety:
(i) He must reside within the State in which the principal place of business or legal residence of the primary obligor is located;
(ii) He must have property subject to execution of a current market value, above all encumbrances, equal to at least the penalty of the bond;
(iii) All real property which he offers as security must be located in the State in which the principal place of business or legal residence of the primary obligor is located;
(iv) He must agree not to mortgage, or otherwise encumber, any property offered as security while the bond continues in effect without first securing the permission of the district director; and
(v) He must file with the bond, and annually thereafter so long as the bond continues in effect, an affidavit as to the adequacy of his security, executed on the appropriate form furnished by the district director.
Partners may not act as sureties upon bonds of their partnership. Stockholders of a corporate principal may be accepted as sureties provided their qualifications as such are independent of their holdings of the stock of the corporation.
(4)
Adequacy of surety.
No surety or security shall be accepted if it does not adequately protect the interest of the United States.
(c)
Bonds required by Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
This section shall also apply in the case of bonds required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 (other than sections 1423(b) and 1145) or under the regulations under such Code.
(d)
Bonds required under subtitle E and chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
Bonds required under subtitle E and chapter 75, subtitle F, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (or under the corresponding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) shall be in such form and with such surety or sureties as are prescribed in the regulations in subchapter E of this chapter (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Excise Taxes).
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7239, 37 FR 28628, Dec. 28, 1972]
§ 301.7102-1
Single bond in lieu of multiple bonds.
(a)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a person who is required, or authorized, under the Code (other than sections 6803(a)(1) and 7485), or under any rules or regulations under the Code, to execute two or more bonds may, in the discretion of the district director, furnish a single bond in lieu of such two or more bonds but only if such single bond meets all the conditions and requirements prescribed for each of the separate bonds which it replaces. This section shall also apply in the case of bonds required or authorized under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 (other than sections 1423(b) and 1145) or under the regulations under such Code.
(b)
Bonds required under subtitle E and chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
In the case of bonds required under subtitle E and chapter 75, subtitle F, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (or under the corresponding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939), a single bond will not be accepted in lieu of two or more bonds except as provided in the regulations in subchapter E of this chapter (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Excise Taxes).

# Closing Agreements and Compromises
§ 301.7121-1
Closing agreements.
(a)
In general.
The Commissioner may enter into a written agreement with any person relating to the liability of such person (or of the person or estate for whom he acts) in respect of any internal revenue tax for any taxable period ending prior or subsequent to the date of such agreement. A closing agreement may be entered into in any case in which there appears to be an advantage in having the case permanently and conclusively closed, or if good and sufficient reasons are shown by the taxpayer for desiring a closing agreement and it is determined by the Commissioner that the United States will sustain no disadvantage through consummation of such an agreement.
(b)
Scope of closing agreement
—(1)
In general.
A closing agreement may be executed even though under the agreement the taxpayer is not liable for any tax for the period to which the agreement relates. There may be a series of closing agreements relating to the tax liability for a single period.
(2)
Taxable periods ended prior to date of closing agreement.
Closing agreements with respect to taxable periods ended prior to the date of the agreement may relate to the total tax liability of the taxpayer or to one or more separate items affecting the tax liability of the taxpayer, as, for example, the amount of gross income, deduction for losses, depreciation, depletion, the year in which an item of income is to be included in gross income, the year in which an item of loss is to be deducted, or the value of property on a specific date. A closing agreement may also be entered into for the purpose of allowing a deficiency dividend deduction under section 547. In addition, a closing agreement constitutes a determination as defined by section 1313.
(3)
Taxable periods ending subsequent to date of closing agreement.
Closing agreements with respect to taxable periods ending subsequent to the date of the agreement may relate to one or more separate items affecting the tax liability of the taxpayer.
(4)
Illustration.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
A owns 500 shares of stock in the XYZ Corporation which he purchased prior to March 1, 1913. A is considering selling 200 shares of such stock but is uncertain as to the basis of the stock for the purpose of computing gain. Either prior or subsequent to the sale, a closing agreement may be entered into determining the market value of such stock as of March 1, 1913, which represents the basis for determining gain if it exceeds the adjusted basis otherwise determined as of such date. Not only may the closing agreement determine the basis for computing gain on the sale of the 200 shares of stock, but such an agreement may also determine the basis (unless or until the law is changed to require the use of some other factor to determine basis) of the remaining 300 shares of stock upon which gain will be computed in a subsequent sale.
(c)
Finality.
A closing agreement which is approved within such time as may be stated in such agreement, or later agreed to, shall be final and conclusive, and, except upon a showing of
fraud or malfeasance, or misrepresentation of a material fact:
(1) The case shall not be reopened as to the matters agreed upon or the agreement modified by any officer, employee, or agent of the United States, and
(2) In any suit, action, or proceeding, such agreement, or any determination, assessment, collection, payment, abatement, refund, or credit made in accordance therewith, shall not be annulled, modified, set aside, or disregarded.
However, a closing agreement with respect to a taxable period ending subsequent to the date of the agreement is subject to any change in, or modification of, the law enacted subsequent to the date of the agreement and made applicable to such taxable period, and each closing agreement shall so recite.
(d)
Procedure with respect to closing agreements
—(1)
Submission of request.
A request for a closing agreement which relates to a prior taxable period may be submitted at any time before a case with respect to the tax liability involved is docketed in the Tax Court of the United States. All closing agreements shall be executed on forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service. The procedure with respect to requests for closing agreements shall be under such rules as may be prescribed from time to time by the Commissioner in accordance with the regulations under this section.
(2)
Collection, credit, or refund.
Any tax or deficiency in tax determined pursuant to a closing agreement shall be assessed and collected, and any overpayment determined pursuant thereto shall be credited or refunded, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
§ 301.7122-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the major captions that appear in the regulations under § 301.7122-1.

# § 301.7122-1 Compromises.
(a) In general.
(b) Grounds for compromise.
(c) Special rules for the evaluation of offers to compromise.
(d) Procedures for submission and consideration of offers.
(e) Acceptance of an offer to compromise a tax liability.
(f) Rejection of an offer to compromise.
(g) Effect of offer to compromise on collection activity.
(h) Deposits.
(i) Statute of limitations.
(j) Inspection with respect to accepted offers to compromise.
(k) Effective date.
[T.D. 9007, 67 FR 48029, July 23, 2002]
§ 301.7122-1
Compromises.
(a)
In general
—(1) If the Secretary determines that there are grounds for compromise under this section, the Secretary may, at the Secretary's discretion, compromise any civil or criminal liability arising under the internal revenue laws prior to reference of a case involving such a liability to the Department of Justice for prosecution or defense.
(2) An agreement to compromise may relate to a civil or criminal liability for taxes, interest, or penalties. Unless the terms of the offer and acceptance expressly provide otherwise, acceptance of an offer to compromise a civil liability does not remit a criminal liability, nor does acceptance of an offer to compromise a criminal liability remit a civil liability.
(b)
Grounds for compromise
—(1)
Doubt as to liability.
Doubt as to liability exists where there is a genuine dispute as to the existence or amount of the correct tax liability under the law. Doubt as to liability does not exist where the liability has been established by a final court decision or judgment concerning the existence or amount of the liability. See paragraph (f)(4) of this section for special rules applicable to rejection of offers in cases where the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is unable to locate the taxpayer's return or return information to verify the liability.
(2)
Doubt as to collectibility.
Doubt as to collectibility exists in any case where the taxpayer's assets and income are less than the full amount of the liability.
(3)
Promote effective tax administration.
(i) A compromise may be entered into to promote effective tax administration when the Secretary determines that, although collection in full could
be achieved, collection of the full liability would cause the taxpayer economic hardship within the meaning of § 301.6343-1.
(ii) If there are no grounds for compromise under paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3)(i) of this section, the IRS may compromise to promote effective tax administration where compelling public policy or equity considerations identified by the taxpayer provide a sufficient basis for compromising the liability. Compromise will be justified only where, due to exceptional circumstances, collection of the full liability would undermine public confidence that the tax laws are being administered in a fair and equitable manner. A taxpayer proposing compromise under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) will be expected to demonstrate circumstances that justify compromise even though a similarly situated taxpayer may have paid his liability in full.
(iii) No compromise to promote effective tax administration may be entered into if compromise of the liability would undermine compliance by taxpayers with the tax laws.
(c)
Special rules for evaluating offers to compromise
—(1)
In general.
Once a basis for compromise under paragraph (b) of this section has been identified, the decision to accept or reject an offer to compromise, as well as the terms and conditions agreed to, is left to the discretion of the Secretary. The determination whether to accept or reject an offer to compromise will be based upon consideration of all the facts and circumstances, including whether the circumstances of a particular case warrant acceptance of an amount that might not otherwise be acceptable under the Secretary's policies and procedures.
(2)
Doubt as to collectibility
—(i)
Allowable expenses.
A determination of doubt as to collectibility will include a determination of ability to pay. In determining ability to pay, the Secretary will permit taxpayers to retain sufficient funds to pay basic living expenses. The determination of the amount of such basic living expenses will be founded upon an evaluation of the individual facts and circumstances presented by the taxpayer's case. To guide this determination, guidelines published by the Secretary on national and local living expense standards will be taken into account.
(ii)
Nonliable spouses
—(A)
In general.
Where a taxpayer is offering to compromise a liability for which the taxpayer's spouse has no liability, the assets and income of the nonliable spouse will not be considered in determining the amount of an adequate offer. The assets and income of a nonliable spouse may be considered, however, to the extent property has been transferred by the taxpayer to the nonliable spouse under circumstances that would permit the IRS to effect collection of the taxpayer's liability from such property (e.g., property that was conveyed in fraud of creditors), property has been transferred by the taxpayer to the nonliable spouse for the purpose of removing the property from consideration by the IRS in evaluating the compromise, or as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. The IRS also may request information regarding the assets and income of the nonliable spouse for the purpose of verifying the amount of and responsibility for expenses claimed by the taxpayer.
(B)
Exception.
Where collection of the taxpayer's liability from the assets and income of the nonliable spouse is permitted by applicable state law (e.g., under state community property laws), the assets and income of the nonliable spouse will be considered in determining the amount of an adequate offer except to the extent that the taxpayer and the nonliable spouse demonstrate that collection of such assets and income would have a material and adverse impact on the standard of living of the taxpayer, the nonliable spouse, and their dependents.
(3)
Compromises to promote effective tax administration
—(i) Factors supporting (but not conclusive of) a determination that collection would cause economic hardship within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section include, but are not limited to—
(A) Taxpayer is incapable of earning a living because of a long term illness, medical condition, or disability, and it is reasonably foreseeable that taxpayer's financial resources will be exhausted providing for care and support during the course of the condition;
(B) Although taxpayer has certain monthly income, that income is exhausted each month in providing for the care of dependents with no other means of support; and
(C) Although taxpayer has certain assets, the taxpayer is unable to borrow against the equity in those assets and liquidation of those assets to pay outstanding tax liabilities would render the taxpayer unable to meet basic living expenses.
(ii) Factors supporting (but not conclusive of) a determination that compromise would undermine compliance within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section include, but are not limited to—
(A) Taxpayer has a history of noncompliance with the filing and payment requirements of the Internal Revenue Code;
(B) Taxpayer has taken deliberate actions to avoid the payment of taxes; and
(C) Taxpayer has encouraged others to refuse to comply with the tax laws.
(iii) The following examples illustrate the types of cases that may be compromised by the Secretary, at the Secretary's discretion, under the economic hardship provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section:

# Example 1.
The taxpayer has assets sufficient to satisfy the tax liability. The taxpayer provides full time care and assistance to her dependent child, who has a serious long-term illness. It is expected that the taxpayer will need to use the equity in his assets to provide for adequate basic living expenses and medical care for his child. The taxpayer's overall compliance history does not weigh against compromise.

# Example 2.
The taxpayer is retired and his only income is from a pension. The taxpayer's only asset is a retirement account, and the funds in the account are sufficient to satisfy the liability. Liquidation of the retirement account would leave the taxpayer without an adequate means to provide for basic living expenses. The taxpayer's overall compliance history does not weigh against compromise.

# Example 3.
The taxpayer is disabled and lives on a fixed income that will not, after allowance of basic living expenses, permit full payment of his liability under an installment agreement. The taxpayer also owns a modest house that has been specially equipped to accommodate his disability. The taxpayer's equity in the house is sufficient to permit payment of the liability he owes. However, because of his disability and limited earning potential, the taxpayer is unable to obtain a mortgage or otherwise borrow against this equity. In addition, because the taxpayer's home has been specially equipped to accommodate his disability, forced sale of the taxpayer's residence would create severe adverse consequences for the taxpayer. The taxpayer's overall compliance history does not weigh against compromise.
(iv) The following examples illustrate the types of cases that may be compromised by the Secretary, at the Secretary's discretion, under the public policy and equity provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section:

# Example 1.
In October of 1986, the taxpayer developed a serious illness that resulted in almost continuous hospitalizations for a number of years. The taxpayer's medical condition was such that during this period the taxpayer was unable to manage any of his financial affairs. The taxpayer has not filed tax returns since that time. The taxpayer's health has now improved and he has promptly begun to attend to his tax affairs. He discovers that the IRS prepared a substitute for return for the 1986 tax year on the basis of information returns it had received and had assessed a tax deficiency. When the taxpayer discovered the liability, with penalties and interest, the tax bill is more than three times the original tax liability. The taxpayer's overall compliance history does not weigh against compromise.

# Example 2.
The taxpayer is a salaried sales manager at a department store who has been able to place $2,000 in a tax-deductible IRA account for each of the last two years. The taxpayer learns that he can earn a higher rate of interest on his IRA savings by moving those savings from a money management account to a certificate of deposit at a different financial institution. Prior to transferring his savings, the taxpayer submits an e-mail inquiry to the IRS at its Web Page, requesting information about the steps he must take to preserve the tax benefits he has enjoyed and to avoid penalties. The IRS responds in an answering e-mail that the taxpayer may withdraw his IRA savings from his neighborhood bank, but he must redeposit those savings in a new IRA account within 90 days. The taxpayer withdraws the funds and redeposits them in a new IRA account 63 days later. Upon audit, the taxpayer learns that he has been misinformed about the required rollover period and that he is liable for additional taxes, penalties and additions to tax for not having redeposited the amount within 60 days. Had it not been for the erroneous advice that is reflected in the taxpayer's retained copy of the IRS e-mail response to his inquiry, the taxpayer would
have redeposited the amount within the required 60-day period. The taxpayer's overall compliance history does not weigh against compromise.
(d)
Procedures for submission and consideration of offers
—(1)
In general.
An offer to compromise a tax liability pursuant to section 7122 must be submitted according to the procedures, and in the form and manner, prescribed by the Secretary. An offer to compromise a tax liability must be made in writing, must be signed by the taxpayer under penalty of perjury, and must contain all of the information prescribed or requested by the Secretary. However, taxpayers submitting offers to compromise liabilities solely on the basis of doubt as to liability will not be required to provide financial statements.
(2)
When offers become pending and return of offers.
An offer to compromise becomes pending when it is accepted for processing. The IRS may not accept for processing any offer to compromise a liability following reference of a case involving such liability to the Department of Justice for prosecution or defense. If an offer accepted for processing does not contain sufficient information to permit the IRS to evaluate whether the offer should be accepted, the IRS will request that the taxpayer provide the needed additional information. If the taxpayer does not submit the additional information that the IRS has requested within a reasonable time period after such a request, the IRS may return the offer to the taxpayer. The IRS may also return an offer to compromise a tax liability if it determines that the offer was submitted solely to delay collection or was otherwise nonprocessable. An offer returned following acceptance for processing is deemed pending only for the period between the date the offer is accepted for processing and the date the IRS returns the offer to the taxpayer. See paragraphs (f)(5)(ii) and (g)(4) of this section for rules regarding the effect of such returns of offers.
(3)
Withdrawal.
An offer to compromise a tax liability may be withdrawn by the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative at any time prior to the IRS' acceptance of the offer to compromise. An offer will be considered withdrawn upon the IRS' receipt of written notification of the withdrawal of the offer either by personal delivery or certified mail, or upon issuance of a letter by the IRS confirming the taxpayer's intent to withdraw the offer.
(e)
Acceptance of an offer to compromise a tax liability.
(1) An offer to compromise has not been accepted until the IRS issues a written notification of acceptance to the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative.
(2) As additional consideration for the acceptance of an offer to compromise, the IRS may request that taxpayer enter into any collateral agreement or post any security which is deemed necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.
(3) Offers may be accepted when they provide for payment of compromised amounts in one or more equal or unequal installments.
(4) If the final payment on an accepted offer to compromise is contingent upon the immediate and simultaneous release of a tax lien in whole or in part, such payment must be made in accordance with the forms, instructions, or procedures prescribed by the Secretary.
(5) Acceptance of an offer to compromise will conclusively settle the liability of the taxpayer specified in the offer. Compromise with one taxpayer does not extinguish the liability of, nor prevent the IRS from taking action to collect from, any person not named in the offer who is also liable for the tax to which the compromise relates. Neither the taxpayer nor the Government will, following acceptance of an offer to compromise, be permitted to reopen the case except in instances where—
(i) False information or documents are supplied in conjunction with the offer;
(ii) The ability to pay or the assets of the taxpayer are concealed; or
(iii) A mutual mistake of material fact sufficient to cause the offer agreement to be reformed or set aside is discovered.
(6)
Opinion of Chief Counsel.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(6), if an offer to compromise is accepted, there will be placed on file the opinion of the Chief Counsel for the IRS with respect to such compromise,
along with the reasons therefor. However, no such opinion will be required with respect to the compromise of any civil case in which the unpaid amount of tax assessed (including any interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty) is less than $50,000. Also placed on file will be a statement of—
(i) The amount of tax assessed;
(ii) The amount of interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or assessable penalty, imposed by law on the person against whom the tax is assessed; and
(iii) The amount actually paid in accordance with the terms of the compromise.
(f)
Rejection of an offer to compromise.
(1) An offer to compromise has not been rejected until the IRS issues a written notice to the taxpayer or his representative, advising of the rejection, the reason(s) for rejection, and the right to an appeal.
(2) The IRS may not notify a taxpayer or taxpayer's representative of the rejection of an offer to compromise until an independent administrative review of the proposed rejection is completed.
(3) No offer to compromise may be rejected solely on the basis of the amount of the offer without evaluating that offer under the provisions of this section and the Secretary's policies and procedures regarding the compromise of cases.
(4)
Offers based upon doubt as to liability.
Offers submitted on the basis of doubt as to liability cannot be rejected solely because the IRS is unable to locate the taxpayer's return or return information for verification of the liability.
(5)
Appeal of rejection of an offer to compromise
—(i)
In general.
The taxpayer may administratively appeal a rejection of an offer to compromise to the IRS Office of Appeals (Appeals) if, within the 30-day period commencing the day after the date on the letter of rejection, the taxpayer requests such an administrative review in the manner provided by the Secretary.
(ii)
Offer to compromise returned following a determination that the offer was nonprocessable, a failure by the taxpayer to provide requested information, or a determination that the offer was submitted for purposes of delay.
Where a determination is made to return offer documents because the offer to compromise was nonprocessable, because the taxpayer failed to provide requested information, or because the IRS determined that the offer to compromise was submitted solely for purposes of delay under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the return of the offer does not constitute a rejection of the offer for purposes of this provision and does not entitle the taxpayer to appeal the matter to Appeals under the provisions of this paragraph (f)(5). However, if the offer is returned because the taxpayer failed to provide requested financial information, the offer will not be returned until a managerial review of the proposed return is completed.
(g)
Effect of offer to compromise on collection activity
—(1)
In general.
The IRS will not levy against the property or rights to property of a taxpayer who submits an offer to compromise, to collect the liability that is the subject of the offer, during the period the offer is pending, for 30 days immediately following the rejection of the offer, and for any period when a timely filed appeal from the rejection is being considered by Appeals.
(2)
Revised offers submitted following rejection.
If, following the rejection of an offer to compromise, the taxpayer makes a good faith revision of that offer and submits the revised offer within 30 days after the date of rejection, the IRS will not levy to collect from the taxpayer the liability that is the subject of the revised offer to compromise while that revised offer is pending.
(3)
Jeopardy.
The IRS may levy to collect the liability that is the subject of an offer to compromise during the period the IRS is evaluating whether that offer will be accepted if it determines that collection of the liability is in jeopardy.
(4)
Offers to compromise determined by IRS to be nonprocessable or submitted solely for purposes of delay.
If the IRS determines, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, that a pending offer did not contain sufficient information to permit evaluation of whether the offer should be accepted, that the offer was
submitted solely to delay collection, or that the offer was otherwise nonprocessable, then the IRS may levy to collect the liability that is the subject of that offer at any time after it returns the offer to the taxpayer.
(5)
Offsets under section 6402.
Notwithstanding the evaluation and processing of an offer to compromise, the IRS may, in accordance with section 6402, credit any overpayments made by the taxpayer against a liability that is the subject of an offer to compromise and may offset such overpayments against other liabilities owed by the taxpayer to the extent authorized by section 6402.
(6)
Proceedings in court.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g)(6), the IRS will not refer a case to the Department of Justice for the commencement of a proceeding in court, against a person named in a pending offer to compromise, if levy to collect the liability is prohibited by paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Without regard to whether a person is named in a pending offer to compromise, however, the IRS may authorize the Department of Justice to file a counterclaim or third-party complaint in a refund action or to join that person in any other proceeding in which liability for the tax that is the subject of the pending offer to compromise may be established or disputed, including a suit against the United States under 28 U.S.C. 2410. In addition, the United States may file a claim in any bankruptcy proceeding or insolvency action brought by or against such person.
(h)
Deposits.
Sums submitted with an offer to compromise a liability or during the pendency of an offer to compromise are considered deposits and will not be applied to the liability until the offer is accepted unless the taxpayer provides written authorization for application of the payments. If an offer to compromise is withdrawn, is determined to be nonprocessable, or is submitted solely for purposes of delay and returned to the taxpayer, any amount tendered with the offer, including all installments paid on the offer, will be refunded without interest. If an offer is rejected, any amount tendered with the offer, including all installments paid on the offer, will be refunded, without interest, after the conclusion of any review sought by the taxpayer with Appeals. Refund will not be required if the taxpayer has agreed in writing that amounts tendered pursuant to the offer may be applied to the liability for which the offer was submitted.
(i)
Statute of limitations
—(1)
Suspension of the statute of limitations on collection.
The statute of limitations on collection will be suspended while levy is prohibited under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(2)
Extension of the statute of limitations on assessment.
For any offer to compromise, the IRS may require, where appropriate, the extension of the statute of limitations on assessment. However, in any case where waiver of the running of the statutory period of limitations on assessment is sought, the taxpayer must be notified of the right to refuse to extend the period of limitations or to limit the extension to particular issues or particular periods of time.
(j)
Inspection with respect to accepted offers to compromise.
For provisions relating to the inspection of returns and accepted offers to compromise, see section 6103(k)(1).
(k)
Effective date.
This section applies to offers to compromise pending on or submitted on or after July 18, 2002.
[T.D. 9007, 67 FR 48029, July 23, 2002; 67 FR 53879, Aug. 20, 2002]

# Crimes, Other Offenses, and Forfeitures

# Crimes

# general provisions
§ 301.7207-1
Fraudulent returns, statements, or other documents.
Any person who willfully delivers or discloses to any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service any list, return, account, statement, or other document, known by him to be fraudulent or to be false as to any material matter, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. Any person required pursuant to section 6047 (b) or (c) or, section 6104(d), to furnish information to any officer or employee of the Internal
Revenue Service or any other person who willfully furnishes to such officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service or such other person any information known by him to be fraudulent or to be false as to any material matter shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.
[T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11505, June 15, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8026, 50 FR 20758, May 20, 1985]
§ 301.7209-1
Unauthorized use or sale of stamps.
(a) Any person who buys, sells, offers for sale, uses, transfers, takes or gives in exchange, or pledges or gives in pledge, except as authorized in the Code or in regulations made pursuant thereto, any stamp, coupon, ticket, book, or other device prescribed by the Commissioner under the Code for the collection or payment of any tax imposed by the Code, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both.
(b) For use or resale of unused documentary stamps, see paragraph (c) of § 43.6802-1 of this chapter (Documentary Stamp Tax Regulations).
§ 301.7214-1
Offenses by officers and employees of the United States.
Any officer or employee of the United States acting in connection with any revenue law of the United States required to make a written report under the provisions of section 7214(a)(8) shall submit such report to the Commissioner, or to a regional commissioner or district director.
§ 301.7216-0
Table of contents.
This section lists captions contained in §§ 301.7216-1 through 301.7216-3.

# § 301.7216-1 Penalty for disclosure or use of tax return information.
(a) In general.
(b) Definitions.
(c) Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
(d) Effective date.

# § 301.7216-2 Permissible disclosures or uses without consent of the taxpayer.
(a) Disclosure pursuant to other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) Disclosures to the IRS.
(c) Disclosures or uses for preparation of a taxpayer's return.
(d) Disclosures to other tax return preparers.
(e) Disclosure or use of information in the case of related taxpayers.
(f) Disclosure pursuant to an order of a court, or an administrative order, demand, request, summons or subpoena which is issued in the performance of its duties by a Federal or State agency, the United States Congress, a professional association ethics committee or board, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(g) Disclosure for use in securing legal advice, Treasury investigations or court proceedings.
(h) Certain disclosures by attorneys and accountants.
(i) Corporate fiduciaries.
(j) Disclosure to taxpayer's fiduciary.
(k) Disclosure or use of information in preparation or audit of State or local tax returns or assisting a taxpayer with foreign country tax obligations.
(l) Payment for tax preparation services.
(m) Retention of records.
(n) Lists for solicitation of tax return preparation business.
(o) Producing statistical information in connection with tax return preparation business.
(p) Disclosure or use of information for quality, peer, or conflict reviews.
(q) Disclosure to report the commission of a crime.
(r) Disclosure of tax return information due to a tax return preparer's incapacity or death.
(s) Effective date.

# § 301.7216-3 Disclosure or use permitted only with the taxpayer's consent.
(a) In general.
(b) Timing requirements and limitations.
(c) Special rules.
(d) Effective date.
[T.D. 9375, 73 FR 1067, Jan. 7, 2008, as amended by T.D. 9478, 75 FR 52, Jan. 4, 2010; T.D. 9608, 77 FR 76403, Dec. 28, 2012]
§ 301.7216-1
Penalty for disclosure or use of tax return information.
(a)
In general.
Section 7216(a) prescribes a criminal penalty for tax return preparers who knowingly or recklessly disclose or use tax return information for a purpose other than preparing a tax return. A violation of section 7216 is a misdemeanor, with a maximum penalty of up to one year imprisonment or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both, together with the
costs of prosecution. Section 7216(b) establishes exceptions to the general rule in section 7216(a) prohibiting disclosure and use. Section 7216(b) also authorizes the Secretary to promulgate regulations prescribing additional permitted disclosures and uses. Section 6713(a) prescribes a related civil penalty for disclosures and uses that constitute a violation of section 7216. The penalty for violating section 6713 is $250 for each prohibited disclosure or use, not to exceed a total of $10,000 for a calendar year. Section 6713(b) provides that the exceptions in section 7216(b) also apply to section 6713. Under section 7216(b), the provisions of section 7216(a) will not apply to any disclosure or use permitted under regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of section 7216 and §§ 301.7216-1 through 301.7216-3:
(1)
Tax return.
The term
tax return
means any return (or amended return) of income tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(2)
Tax return preparer
—(i)
In general.
The term
tax return preparer
means:
(A) Any person who is engaged in the business of preparing or assisting in preparing tax returns;
(B) Any person who is engaged in the business of providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of tax returns, including a person who develops software that is used to prepare or file a tax return and any Authorized IRS e-file Provider;
(C) Any person who is otherwise compensated for preparing, or assisting in preparing, a tax return for any other person; or
(D) Any individual who, as part of their duties of employment with any person described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section performs services that assist in the preparation of, or assist in providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of, a tax return.
(ii)
Business of preparing returns.
A person is engaged in the business of preparing tax returns as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section if, in the course of the person's business, the person holds himself out to tax return preparers or taxpayers as a person who prepares tax returns or assists in preparing tax returns, whether or not tax return preparation is the person's sole business activity and whether or not the person charges a fee for tax return preparation services.
(iii)
Providing auxiliary services.
A person is engaged in the business of providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of tax returns as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section if, in the course of the person's business, the person holds himself out to tax return preparers or to taxpayers as a person who performs auxiliary services, whether or not providing the auxiliary services is the person's sole business activity and whether or not the person charges a fee for the auxiliary services. Likewise, a person is engaged in the business of providing auxiliary services if, in the course of the person's business, the person receives a taxpayer's tax return information from another tax return preparer pursuant to the provisions of § 301.7216-2(d)(2).
(iv)
Otherwise compensated.
A tax return preparer described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section includes any person who—
(A) Is compensated for preparing a tax return for another person, but not in the course of a business; or
(B) Is compensated for helping, on a casual basis, a relative, friend, or other acquaintance to prepare their tax return.
(v)
Exclusions.
A person is not a tax return preparer merely because he leases office space to a tax return preparer, furnishes credit to a taxpayer whose tax return is prepared by a tax return preparer, furnishes information to a tax return preparer at the taxpayer's request, furnishes access (free or otherwise) to a separate person's tax return preparation Web site through a hyperlink on his own Web site, or otherwise performs some service that only incidentally relates to the preparation of tax returns.
(vi)
Examples.
The application of § 301.7216-1(b)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Bank B is a tax return preparer within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, and an Authorized IRS e-file Provider. B employs one individual, Q, to solicit the necessary tax return information
for the preparation of a tax return; another individual, R, to prepare the return on the basis of the information that is furnished; a secretary, S, who types the information on the returns into a computer; and an administrative assistant, T, who uses a computer to file electronic versions of the tax returns. Under these circumstances, only R is a tax return preparer for purposes of section 7701(a)(36), but all four employees are tax return preparers for purposes of section 7216, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

# Example 2.
Tax return preparer P contracts with department store D to rent space in D's store. D advertises that taxpayers who use P's services may charge the cost of having their tax return prepared to their charge account with D. Under these circumstances, D is not a tax return preparer because it provides space, credit, and services only incidentally related to the preparation of tax returns.
(3)
Tax return information
—(i)
In general.
The term
tax return information
means any information, including, but not limited to, a taxpayer's name, address, or identifying number, which is furnished in any form or manner for, or in connection with, the preparation of a tax return of the taxpayer. This information includes information that the taxpayer furnishes to a tax return preparer and information furnished to the tax return preparer by a third party. Tax return information also includes information the tax return preparer derives or generates from tax return information in connection with the preparation of a taxpayer's return.
(A) Tax return information can be provided directly by the taxpayer or by another person. Likewise, tax return information includes information received by the tax return preparer from the IRS in connection with the processing of such return, including an acknowledgment of acceptance or notice of rejection of an electronically filed return.
(B) Tax return information includes statistical compilations of tax return information, even in a form that cannot be associated with, or otherwise identify, directly or indirectly, a particular taxpayer. See § 301.7216-2(o) for limited use of tax return information to make statistical compilations without taxpayer consent and to use the statistical compilations for limited purposes.
(C) Tax return information does not include information identical to any tax return information that has been furnished to a tax return preparer if the identical information was obtained otherwise than in connection with the preparation of a tax return.
(D) Information is considered “in connection with tax return preparation,” and therefore tax return information, if the taxpayer would not have furnished the information to the tax return preparer but for the intention to engage, or the engagement of, the tax return preparer to prepare the tax return.
(ii)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph (b)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer A purchases computer software designed to assist with the preparation and filing of her income tax return. When A loads the software onto her computer, it prompts her to register her purchase of the software. In this situation, the software provider is a tax return preparer under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section and the information that A provides to register her purchase is tax return information because she is providing it in connection with the preparation of a tax return.

# Example 2.
Corporation A is a brokerage firm that maintains a Web site through which its clients may access their accounts, trade stocks, and generally conduct a variety of financial activities. Through its Web site, A offers its clients free access to its own tax preparation software. Taxpayer B is a client of A and has furnished A his name, address, and other information when registering for use of A's Web site to use A's brokerage services. In addition, A has a record of B's brokerage account activity, including sales of stock, dividends paid, and IRA contributions made. B uses A's tax preparation software to prepare his tax return. The software populates some fields on B's return on the basis of information A already maintains in its databases. A is a tax return preparer within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section because it has prepared and provided software for use in preparing tax returns. The information in A's databases that the software accesses to populate B's return,
i.e.
, the registration information and brokerage account activity, is not tax return information because A did not receive that information in connection with the preparation of a tax return. Once A uses the information to populate the return, however, the information associated with the return becomes tax return information. If A retains the information in a form in which A can identify that the information was used
in connection with the preparation of a return, the information in that form is tax return information. If, however, A retains the information in a database in which A cannot identify whether the information was used in connection with the preparation of a return, then that information is not tax return information.
(4)
Use
—(i)
In general.
Use of tax return information includes any circumstance in which a tax return preparer refers to, or relies upon, tax return information as the basis to take or permit an action.
(ii)
Example.
The application of this paragraph (b)(4) may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Preparer G is a tax return preparer as defined by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section. If G determines, upon preparing a return, that the taxpayer is eligible to make a contribution to an individual retirement account (IRA), G will ask whether the taxpayer desires to make a contribution to an IRA. G does not ask about IRAs in cases in which the taxpayer is not eligible to make a contribution. G is using tax return information when it asks whether a taxpayer is interested in making a contribution to an IRA because G is basing the inquiry upon knowledge gained from information that the taxpayer furnished in connection with the preparation of the taxpayer's return.
(5)
Disclosure.
The term
disclosure
means the act of making tax return information known to any person in any manner whatever. To the extent that a taxpayer's use of a hyperlink results in the transmission of tax return information, this transmission of tax return information is a disclosure by the tax return preparer subject to penalty under section 7216 if not authorized by regulation.
(6)
Hyperlink.
For purposes of section 7216, a hyperlink is a device used to transfer an individual using tax preparation software from a tax return preparer's Web page to a Web page operated by another person without the individual having to separately enter the Web address of the destination page.
(7)
Request for consent.
A request for consent includes any effort by a tax return preparer to obtain the taxpayer's consent to use or disclose the taxpayer's tax return information. The act of supplying a taxpayer with a paper or electronic form that meets the requirements of a revenue procedure published pursuant to § 301.7216-3(a) is a request for a consent. When a tax return preparer requests a taxpayer's consent, any associated efforts of the tax return preparer, including, but not limited to, verbal or written explanations of the form, are part of the request for consent.
(c)
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
Any applicable requirements of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Public Law 106-102 (113 Stat. 1338), do not supersede, alter, or affect the requirements of section 7216 and §§ 301.7216-1 through 301.7216-3. Similarly, the requirements of section 7216 and §§ 301.7216-1 through 301.7216-3 do not override any requirements or restrictions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which are in addition to the requirements or restrictions of section 7216 and §§ 301.7216-1 through 301.7216-3.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to disclosures or uses of tax return information occurring on or after January 1, 2009.
[T.D. 9375, 73 FR 1067, Jan. 7, 2008]
§ 301.7216-2
Permissible disclosures or uses without consent of the taxpayer.
(a)
Disclosure pursuant to other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to any disclosure of tax return information if the disclosure is made pursuant to any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code or the regulations thereunder.
(b)
Disclosures to the IRS.
The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to any disclosure of tax return information to an officer or employee of the IRS.
(c)
Disclosures or uses for preparation of a taxpayer's return
—(1)
Updating Taxpayers' Tax Return Preparation Software.
If a tax return preparer provides software to a taxpayer that is used in connection with the preparation or filing of a tax return, the tax return preparer may use the taxpayer's tax return information to update the taxpayer's software for the purpose of addressing changes in IRS forms, e-file specifications and administrative, regulatory and legislative guidance or to test and ensure the software's technical capabilities without the taxpayer's consent under § 301.7216-3.
(2)
Tax return preparers located within the same firm in the United States.
If a taxpayer furnishes tax return information to a tax return preparer located within the United States, including any territory or possession of the United States, an officer, employee, or member of a tax return preparer may use the tax return information, or disclose the tax return information to another officer, employee, or member of the same tax return preparer, for the purpose of performing services that assist in the preparation of, or assist in providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of, the taxpayer's tax return. If an officer, employee, or member to whom the tax return information is to be disclosed is located outside of the United States or any territory or possession of the United States, the taxpayer's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to any disclosure is required.
(3)
Furnishing tax return information to tax return preparers located outside the United States.
If a taxpayer initially furnishes tax return information to a tax return preparer located outside of the United States or any territory or possession of the United States, an officer, employee, or member of a tax return preparer may use tax return information, or disclose any tax return information to another officer, employee, or member of the same tax return preparer, for the purpose of performing services that assist in the preparation of, or assist in providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of, the tax return of a taxpayer by or for whom the information was furnished without the taxpayer's consent under § 301.7216-3.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c):

# Example 1.
Preparer P provides tax return preparation software to Taxpayer T for T to use in the preparation of its 2009 income tax return. For the 2009 tax year, and using T's tax return information furnished while registering for the software, P would like to update the tax return preparation software that T is using to account for last minute changes made to the tax laws for the 2009 tax year. P is not required to obtain T's consent to update the tax return preparation software. P may perform a software update regardless of whether the software update will affect T's particular return preparation activities.

# Example 2.
T is a client of Firm, which is a tax return preparer. E, an employee at Firm's State A office, receives tax return information from T for use in preparing T's income tax return. E discloses the tax return information to P, an employee in Firm's State B office; P uses the tax return information to process T's income tax return. Firm is not required to receive T's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to E's disclosure of T's tax return information to P because the tax return information is disclosed to an employee employed by the same tax return preparer located within the United States.

# Example 3.
Same facts as
Example 2
except T's tax return information is disclosed to FE who is located in Firm's Country F office. FE uses the tax return information to process T's income tax return. After processing, FE returns the processed tax return information to E in Firm's State A office. Because FE is outside of the United States, Firm is required to obtain T's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to E's disclosure of T's tax return information to FE.

# Example 4.
T, Firm's client, is temporarily located in Country F. She initially furnishes her tax return information to employee FE in Firm's Country F office for the purpose of having Firm prepare her U.S. income tax return. FE makes the substantive determinations concerning T's tax liability and forwards T's tax return information to FP, an employee in Firm's Country P office, for the purpose of processing T's tax return information. FP processes the return information and forwards it to Partner at Firm's State A office in the United States for review and delivery to T. Because T initially furnished the tax return information to a tax return preparer outside of the United States, T's prior consent for disclosure or use under § 301.7216-3 was not required. An officer, employee, or member of Firm in the United States may use T's tax return information or disclose the tax return information to another officer, employee, or member of Firm without T's prior consent under § 301.7216-3 as long as any disclosure or use of T's tax return information is within the United States. Firm is required to receive T's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to any subsequent disclosure of T's tax return information to a tax return preparer located outside of the United States.
(d)
Disclosures to other tax return preparers
—(1)
Preparer-to-preparer disclosures.
Except as limited in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an officer, employee, or member of a tax return preparer may disclose tax return information of a taxpayer to another tax return preparer (other than an officer,
employee, or member of the same tax return preparer) located in the United States (including any territory or possession of the United States) for the purpose of preparing or assisting in preparing a tax return, or obtaining or providing auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of any tax return, so long as the services provided are not substantive determinations or advice affecting the tax liability reported by taxpayers. A substantive determination involves an analysis, interpretation, or application of the law. The authorized disclosures permitted under this paragraph (d)(1) include one tax return preparer disclosing tax return information to another tax return preparer for the purpose of having the second tax return preparer transfer that information to, and compute the tax liability on, a tax return of the taxpayer by means of electronic, mechanical, or other form of tax return processing service. The authorized disclosures permitted under this paragraph (d)(1) also include disclosures by a tax return preparer to an Authorized IRS
e-file
Provider for the purpose of electronically filing the return with the IRS. Authorized disclosures also include disclosures by a tax return preparer to a second tax return preparer for the purpose of making information concerning the return available to the taxpayer. This would include, for example, whether the return has been accepted or rejected by the IRS, or the status of the taxpayer's refund. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a tax return preparer may not disclose tax return information to another tax return preparer for the purpose of the second tax return preparer providing substantive determinations without first receiving the taxpayer's consent in accordance with the rules under § 301.7216-3.
(2)
Disclosures to contractors.
A tax return preparer may disclose tax return information to a person under contract with the tax return preparer in connection with the programming, maintenance, repair, testing, or procurement of equipment or software used for purposes of tax return preparation only to the extent necessary for the person to provide the contracted services, and only if the tax return preparer ensures that all individuals who are to receive disclosures of tax return information receive a written notice that informs them of the applicability of sections 6713 and 7216 to them and describes the requirements and penalties of sections 6713 and 7216. Contractors receiving tax return information pursuant to this section are tax return preparers under section 7216 because they are performing auxiliary services in connection with tax return preparation. See § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(B) and (D).
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (d):

# Example 1.
E, an employee at Firm's State A office, receives tax return information from T for Firm's use in preparing T's income tax return. E makes substantive determinations and forwards the tax return information to P, an employee at Processor; Processor is located in State B. P places the tax return information on the income tax return and furnishes the finished product to E. E is not required to receive T's prior consent under § 301.7216-3 before disclosing T's tax return information to P because Processor's services are not substantive determinations and the tax return information remained in the United States at Processor's State B office during the entire course of the tax return preparation process.

# Example 2.
Firm, a tax return preparer, offers income tax return preparation services. Firm's contract with its software provider, Contractor, requires Firm to periodically randomly select certain taxpayers' tax return information solely for the purpose of testing the reliability of the software sold to Firm. Under its agreement with Contractor, Firm discloses tax return information to Contractor's employee, C, who services Firm's contract without providing Contractor or C with a written notice that describes the requirements of and penalties under sections 7216 and 6713. C uses the tax return information solely for quality assurance purposes. Firm's disclosure of tax return information to C was an impermissible disclosure because Firm failed to ensure that C received a written notice that describes the requirements and penalties of sections 7216 and 6713.

# Example 3.
E, an employee of Firm in State A in the United States, receives tax return information from T for use in preparing T's income tax return. After E enters T's tax return information into Firm's computer, that information is stored on a computer server that is physically located in State A. Firm contracts with Contractor, located in Country F, to prepare its clients' tax returns. FE, an employee of Contractor, uses a computer in Country F and inputs a password to view
T's income tax information stored on the computer server in State A to prepare T's tax return. A computer program permits FE to view T's tax return information, but prohibits FE from downloading or printing out T's tax return information from the computer server. Because Firm is disclosing T's tax return information outside of the United States, Firm is required to obtain T's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to the disclosure to FE. As provided in § 301.7216-3(b)(5), however, Firm may not obtain consent to disclose T's social security number (SSN) to a tax return preparer located outside of the United States or any territory or possession of the United States.

# Example 4.
A, an employee at Firm A, receives tax return information from T for Firm's use in preparing T's income tax return. A forwards the tax return information to B, an employee at another firm, Firm B, to obtain advice on the issue of whether T may claim a deduction for a certain business expense. A is required to receive T's prior consent under § 301.7216-3 before disclosing T's tax return information to B because B's services involve a substantive determination affecting the tax liability that T will report.
(e)
Disclosure or use of information in the case of related taxpayers.
(1) In preparing a tax return of a second taxpayer, a tax return preparer may use, and may disclose to the second taxpayer in the form in which it appears on the return, any tax return information that the tax return preparer obtained from a first taxpayer if—
(i) The second taxpayer is related to the first taxpayer within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(ii) The first taxpayer's tax interest in the information is not adverse to the second taxpayer's tax interest in the information; and
(iii) The first taxpayer has not expressly prohibited the disclosure or use.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, a taxpayer is related to another taxpayer if they have any one of the following relationships: Husband and wife, child and parent, grandchild and grandparent, partner and partnership, trust or estate and beneficiary, trust or estate and fiduciary, corporation and shareholder, or members of a controlled group of corporations as defined in section 1563.
(3) See § 301.7216-3 for disclosure or use of tax return information of the taxpayer in preparing the tax return of a second taxpayer when the requirements of this paragraph are not satisfied.
(f) D
isclosure pursuant to an order of a court, or an administrative order, demand, request, summons or subpoena which is issued in the performance of its duties by a Federal or State agency, the United States Congress, a professional association ethics committee or board, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 will not apply to any disclosure of tax return information if the disclosure is made pursuant to any one of the following documents:
(1) The order of any court of record, Federal, State, or local.
(2) A subpoena issued by a grand jury, Federal or State.
(3) A subpoena issued by the United States Congress.
(4) An administrative order, demand, summons or subpoena that is issued in the performance of its duties by—
(i) Any Federal agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(f), or
(ii) A State agency, body, or commission charged under the laws of the State or a political subdivision of the State with the licensing, registration, or regulation of tax return preparers.
(5) A written request from a professional association ethics committee or board investigating the ethical conduct of the tax return preparer.
(6) A written request from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in connection with an inspection under section 104 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 U.S.C. 7214, or an investigation under section 105 of such Act, 15 U.S.C. 7215, for use in accordance with such Act.
(g)
Disclosure for use in securing legal advice, Treasury investigations or court proceedings.
A tax return preparer may disclose tax return information—
(1) To an attorney for purposes of securing legal advice;
(2) To an employee of the Treasury Department for use in connection with any investigation of the tax return preparer (including investigations relating to the tax return preparer in its capacity as a practitioner) conducted by the IRS or the Treasury Department; or
(3) To any officer of a court for use in connection with proceedings involving
the tax return preparer (including proceedings involving the tax return preparer in its capacity as a practitioner), or the return preparer's client, before the court or before any grand jury that may be convened by the court.
(h)
Certain disclosures by attorneys and accountants.
The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to any disclosure of tax return information permitted by this paragraph (h).
(1)(i) A tax return preparer who is lawfully engaged in the practice of law or accountancy and prepares a tax return for a taxpayer may use the taxpayer's tax return information, or disclose the information to another officer, employee or member of the tax return preparer's law or accounting firm, consistent with applicable legal and ethical responsibilities, who may use the tax return information for the purpose of providing other legal or accounting services to the taxpayer. As an example, a lawyer who prepares a tax return for a taxpayer may use the tax return information of the taxpayer for, or in connection with, rendering legal services, including estate planning or administration, or preparation of trial briefs or trust instruments, for the taxpayer or the estate of the taxpayer. In addition, the lawyer who prepared the tax return may disclose the tax return information to another officer, employee or member of the same firm for the purpose of providing other legal services to the taxpayer. As another example, an accountant who prepares a tax return for a taxpayer may use the tax return information, or disclose it to another officer, employee or member of the firm, for use in connection with the preparation of books and records, working papers, or accounting statements or reports for the taxpayer. In the normal course of rendering the legal or accounting services to the taxpayer, the attorney or accountant may make the tax return information available to third parties, including stockholders, management, suppliers, or lenders, consistent with the applicable legal and ethical responsibilities, unless the taxpayer directs otherwise. For rules regarding disclosures outside of the United States, see § 301.7216-2(c) and (d).
(ii) A tax return preparer's law or accounting firm does not include any related or affiliated firms. For example, if law firm A is affiliated with law firm B, officers, employees and members of law firm A must receive a taxpayer's consent under § 301.7216-3 before disclosing the taxpayer's tax return information to an officer, employee or member of law firm B.
(2) A tax return preparer who is lawfully engaged in the practice of law or accountancy and prepares a tax return for a taxpayer may, consistent with the applicable legal and ethical responsibilities, take the tax return information into account, and may act upon it, in the course of performing legal or accounting services for a client other than the taxpayer, or disclose the information to another officer, employee or member of the tax return preparer's law or accounting firm to enable that other officer, employee or member to take the information into account, and act upon it, in the course of performing legal or accounting services for a client other than the taxpayer. This is permissible when the information is, or may be, relevant to the subject matter of the legal or accounting services for the other client, and consideration of the information by those performing the services is necessary for the proper performance of the services. In no event, however, may the tax return information be disclosed to a person who is not an officer, employee or member of the law or accounting firm, unless the disclosure is exempt from the application of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 by reason of another provision of §§ 301.7216-2 or 301.7216-3.
(3)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, a member of an accounting firm, renders an opinion on a financial statement of M Corporation that is part of a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. After the registration statement is filed, but before its effective date, B, a member of the same accounting firm, prepares an income tax return for N Corporation. In the course of preparing N's income tax return, B discovers that N does business with M and concludes that the information given by N should be considered by A to determine whether the financial statement opined on by A contains an untrue
statement of material fact or omits a material fact required to keep the statement from being misleading. B discloses to A the tax return information of N for this purpose. A determines that there is an omission of material fact and that an amended statement should be filed. A so advises M and the Securities and Exchange Commission. A explains that the omission was revealed as a result of confidential information that came to A's attention after the statement was filed, but A does not disclose the identity of the taxpayer or the tax return information itself. Section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 do not apply to B's disclosure of N's tax return information to A and A's use of the information in advising M and the Securities and Exchange Commission of the necessity for filing an amended statement. Section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 would apply to a disclosure of N's tax return information to M or to the Securities and Exchange Commission unless the disclosure is exempt from the application of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 by reason of another provision of either this section or § 301.7216-3.

# Example 2.
A, a member of an accounting firm, is conducting an audit of M Corporation, and B, a member of the same accounting firm, prepares an income tax return for D, an officer of M. In the course of preparing the return, B obtains information from D indicating that D, pursuant to an arrangement with a supplier doing business with M, has been receiving from the supplier a percentage of the amounts that the supplier invoices to M. B discloses this information to A who, acting upon it, searches in the course of the audit for indications of a kickback scheme. As a result, A discovers information from audit sources that independently indicate the existence of a kickback scheme. Without revealing the tax return information A has received from B, A brings to the attention of officers of M the audit information indicating the existence of the kickback scheme. Section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 do not apply to B's disclosure of D's tax return information to A, A's use of D's information in the course of the audit, and A's disclosure to M of the audit information indicating the existence of the kickback scheme. Section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 would apply to a disclosure to M, or to any other person not an employee or member of the accounting firm, of D's tax return information furnished to B.
(i)
Corporate fiduciaries.
A trust company, trust department of a bank, or other corporate fiduciary that prepares a tax return for a taxpayer for whom it renders fiduciary, investment, or other custodial or management services may, unless the taxpayer directs otherwise—
(1) Disclose or use the taxpayer's tax return information in the ordinary course of rendering such services to or for the taxpayer; or
(2) Make the information available to the taxpayer's attorney, accountant, or investment advisor.
(j)
Disclosure to taxpayer's fiduciary.
If, after furnishing tax return information to a tax return preparer, the taxpayer dies or becomes incompetent, insolvent, or bankrupt, or the taxpayer's assets are placed in conservatorship or receivership, the tax return preparer may disclose the information to the duly appointed fiduciary of the taxpayer or his estate, or to the duly authorized agent of the fiduciary.
(k)
Disclosure or use of information in preparation or audit of State or local tax returns or assisting a taxpayer with foreign country tax obligations.
The provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall apply to the disclosure by any tax return preparer of any tax return information in the preparation of, or in connection with the preparation of, any tax return of the taxpayer under the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, of the District of Columbia, of any territory or possession of the United States, or of a country other than the United States. The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to the use by any tax return preparer of any tax return information in the preparation of, or in connection with the preparation of, any tax return of the taxpayer under the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, of the District of Columbia, of any territory or possession of the United States, or of a country other than the United States. The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to the disclosure or use by any tax return preparer of any tax return information in the audit of, or in connection with the audit of, any tax return of the taxpayer under the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States.
(l)
Payment for tax preparation services.
A tax return preparer may use and disclose, without the taxpayer's written consent, tax return information that the taxpayer provides to the tax return preparer to pay for tax preparation services to the extent necessary to
process or collect the payment. For example, if the taxpayer gives the tax return preparer a credit card to pay for tax preparation services, the tax return preparer may disclose the taxpayer's name, credit card number, credit card expiration date, and amount due for tax preparation services to the credit card company, as necessary, to process the payment. Any tax return information that the taxpayer did not give the tax return preparer for the purpose of making payment for tax preparation services may not be used or disclosed by the tax return preparer without the taxpayer's prior written consent, unless otherwise permitted under another provision of this section.
(m)
Retention of records.
A tax return preparer may retain tax return information of a taxpayer, including copies of tax returns, in paper or electronic format, prepared on the basis of the tax return information, and may use the information in connection with the preparation of other tax returns of the taxpayer or in connection with an examination by the Internal Revenue Service of any tax return or subsequent tax litigation relating to the tax return. The provisions of paragraph (n) of this section regarding the transfer of a taxpayer list also apply to the transfer of any records and related papers to which this paragraph applies.
(n)
Lists for solicitation of tax return preparation business.
(1) A tax return preparer, other than a person who is a tax return preparer solely because the person provides auxiliary services as defined in § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(iii), may compile and maintain a separate list containing solely items of tax return information. The following items of tax return information are permissible: The names, mailing addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, taxpayer entity classification (including “individual” or the specific type of business entity), and income tax return form number (for example, Form 1040-EZ) of taxpayers whose tax returns the tax return preparer has prepared or processed. The Internal Revenue Service may issue guidance, by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter), describing other types of information that may be included in a list compiled and maintained pursuant to this paragraph. This list may be used by the compiler solely to contact the taxpayers on the list for the purpose of providing tax information and general business or economic information or analysis for educational purposes, or soliciting additional tax return preparation services. The list may not be used to solicit any service or product other than tax return preparation services. The compiler of the list may not transfer the taxpayer list, or any part thereof, to any other person unless the transfer takes place in conjunction with the sale or other disposition of the compiler's tax return preparation business. Due diligence conducted prior to a proposed sale of a compiler's tax return preparation business is in conjunction with the sale or other disposition of a compiler's tax return preparation business and will not constitute a transfer of the list if conducted pursuant to a written agreement that requires confidentiality of the tax return information disclosed and expressly prohibits the further disclosure or use of the tax return information for any purpose other than that related to the purchase of the tax return preparation business. A person who acquires a taxpayer list, or a part thereof, in conjunction with a sale or other disposition of a tax return preparation business falls under the provisions of this paragraph with respect to the list. The term
list,
as used in this paragraph (n), includes any record or system whereby the types of information expressly authorized for inclusion in a taxpayer list pursuant to the terms of this paragraph (n) are retained. The provisions of this paragraph (n) also apply to the transfer of any records and related papers to which this paragraph (n) applies.
(2)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (n):

# Example 1.
Preparer A is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A). Preparer A's office is located in southeast Pennsylvania, and Preparer A prepares federal and state income tax returns for taxpayers who live in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, and Delaware. Preparer A maintains a list of taxpayer clients containing the information allowed by this paragraph (n). Preparer A provides quarterly state income tax information updates to his
individual taxpayer clients by email or U.S. mail. To ensure that his clients only receive the information updates that are relevant to them, Preparer A uses his list to direct his outreach efforts towards the relevant clients by searching his list to filter it by zip code and income tax return form number (Form 1040 and corresponding state income tax return form number). Preparer A may use the list information in this manner without taxpayer consent because he is providing tax information for educational or informational purposes and is targeting clients based solely upon tax return information that is authorized by this paragraph (n) (by zip code, which is part of a taxpayer's address, and by income tax return form number). Without taxpayer consent, Preparer A also may deliver this information to his clients by email, U.S. mail, or other method of delivery that uses only information authorized by this paragraph (n).

# Example 2.
Preparer B is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A). Preparer B maintains a list of taxpayer clients containing the information allowed by this paragraph (n). Preparer B provides monthly federal income tax information updates in the form of a newsletter to all of her taxpayer clients by email or U.S. mail. When Preparer B hires a new employee who participates or assists in tax return preparation, she announces that hire in the newsletter for the month that follows the hiring. Each announcement includes a photograph of the new employee, the employee's name, the employee's telephone number, a brief listing of the employee's qualifications, and a brief listing of the employee's employment responsibilities. Preparer B may use the tax return information described in this paragraph (n) in this manner without taxpayer consent because she is providing tax information for educational or informational purposes to provide general federal income tax information updates. Preparer B may include the new employee announcements in the form described because this is considered tax information for informational purposes, provided the announcements do not contain solicitations for non-tax return preparation services. Without taxpayer consent, Preparer B also may deliver this information to her clients by email, U.S. mail, or other method of delivery that uses only information authorized by this paragraph (n).
(o)
Producing statistical information in connection with tax return preparation business.
(1) A tax return preparer may use tax return information, subject to the limitations specified in this paragraph (o), to produce a statistical compilation of data described in § 301.7216-1(b)(3)(i)(B). The purpose for and disclosure or use of the statistical compilation requiring data acquired during the tax return preparation process must relate directly to the internal management or support of the tax return preparer's tax return preparation business, or to bona fide research or public policy discussions concerning state or federal taxation. A tax return preparer may not disclose the statistical compilation, or any part thereof, to any other person unless disclosure of the statistical compilation is anonymous as to taxpayer identity, does not disclose an aggregate figure containing data from fewer than ten tax returns, and is in direct support of the tax return preparer's tax return preparation business or of bona fide research or public policy discussions concerning state or federal taxation. A statistical compilation is anonymous as to taxpayer identity if it is in a form which cannot be associated with, or otherwise identify, directly or indirectly, a particular taxpayer. For purposes of this paragraph, marketing and advertising is in direct support of the tax return preparer's tax return preparation business provided the marketing and advertising is not false, misleading, or unduly influential. This paragraph, however, does not authorize the disclosure or use in marketing or advertising of any statistical compilations, or part thereof, that identify dollar amounts of refunds, credits, or deductions associated with tax returns, or percentages relating thereto, whether or not the data are statistical, averaged, aggregated, or anonymous. Disclosures made in support of fundraising activities conducted by volunteer return preparation programs and other organizations described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) in direct support of their tax return preparation businesses are not marketing and advertising under this paragraph. A tax return preparer who produces a statistical compilation of data described in § 301.7216-1(b)(3)(i)(B) may disclose the compilation to comply with financial accounting or regulatory reporting requirements whether or not the statistical compilation is anonymous as to taxpayer identity or discloses an aggregate figure containing data from fewer than ten tax returns.
(2) A tax return preparer may not sell or exchange for value a statistical compilation of data described in § 301.7216-1(b)(3)(i)(B), in whole or in part, except in conjunction with the transfer of assets made pursuant to the sale or other disposition of the tax return preparer's tax return preparation business. The provisions of paragraph (n) of this section regarding the transfer of a taxpayer list also apply to the transfer of any statistical compilations of data to which this paragraph applies. A person who acquires a statistical compilation, or a part thereof, pursuant to the operation of this paragraph (o) or in conjunction with a sale or other disposition of a tax return preparation business is subject to the provisions of this paragraph with respect to the compilation.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (o):

# Example 1.
Preparer A is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A). In 2009, A used tax return information to produce a statistical compilation of data for both internal management purposes and to support A's tax return preparation business. The statistical compilation included an aggregate figure containing the information that A prepared 32 S corporation tax returns in 2009. In 2010, A decided to embark upon a new marketing campaign emphasizing its experience preparing small business tax returns. In the campaign, A discloses the aggregate figure containing the number of S corporation tax returns prepared in 2009. A's disclosure does not include any information that can be associated with or identify any specific taxpayers. A may disclose the anonymous statistical compilation without taxpayer consent.

# Example 2.
Preparer B is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A). In 2010, in support of B's tax return preparation business, B wants to advertise that the average tax refund obtained for its clients in 2009 was $2,800. B may not disclose this information because it contains a statistical compilation reflecting average refund amounts.

# Example 3.
Preparer C is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A) and is a volunteer income tax assistance program. In 2010, in support of C's tax return preparation business, C submits a grant application to a charitable foundation to fund C's operations providing free tax return preparation services to low- and moderate-income families. In support of C's request, C includes anonymous statistical data consisting of aggregated figures containing data from ten or more tax returns showing that, in 2009, C provided services to 500 taxpayers, that 95 percent of the taxpayer population served by C received the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), and that the average amount of the EITC received was $3,300. Despite the fact that this information constitutes an average credit amount, C may disclose the information to the charitable foundation because disclosures made in support of fundraising activities conducted by volunteer income tax assistance programs and other organizations described in section 501(c) of the Code in direct support of their tax return preparation business are not considered marketing and advertising for purposes of § 301.7216-2(o)(1).

# Example 4.
Preparer D is a tax return preparer as defined by § 301.7216-1(b)(2)(i)(A). In December 2009, D produced an anonymous statistical compilation of tax return information obtained during the 2009 filing season. In 2010, D wants to disclose portions of the anonymous statistical compilation from aggregated figures containing data from ten or more tax returns in connection with the marketing of its financial advisory and asset planning services. D is required to receive taxpayer consent under § 301.7216-3 before disclosing the tax return information contained in the anonymous statistical compilation because the disclosure is not being made in support of D's tax return preparation business.
(p)
Disclosure or use of information for quality, peer, or conflict reviews.
(1) The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to any disclosure for the purpose of a quality or peer review to the extent necessary to accomplish the review. A quality or peer review is a review that is undertaken to evaluate, monitor, and improve the quality and accuracy of a tax return preparer's tax preparation, accounting, or auditing services. A quality or peer review may be conducted only by attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents, and enrolled actuaries who are eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. See Department of the Treasury Circular 230, 31 CFR part 10. Tax return information may also be disclosed to persons who provide administrative or support services to an individual who is conducting a quality or peer review under this paragraph (p), but only to the extent necessary for the reviewer to conduct the review. Tax return information gathered in conducting a review may be used only for purposes of a review. No tax return
information identifying a taxpayer may be disclosed in any evaluative reports or recommendations that may be accessible to any person other than the reviewer or the tax return preparer being reviewed. The tax return preparer being reviewed will maintain a record of the review, including the information reviewed and the identity of the persons conducting the review. After completion of the review, no documents containing information that may identify any taxpayer by name or identification number may be retained by a reviewer or by the reviewer's administrative or support personnel.
(2) The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to any disclosure necessary to accomplish a conflict review. A conflict review is a review undertaken to comply with requirements established by any federal, state, or local law, agency, board or commission, or by a professional association ethics committee or board, to either identify, evaluate, or monitor actual or potential legal and ethical conflicts of interest that may arise when a tax return preparer is employed or acquired by another tax return preparer, or to identify, evaluate, or monitor actual or potential legal and ethical conflicts of interest that may arise when a tax return preparer is considering engaging a new client. Tax return information gathered in conducting a conflict review may be used only for purposes of a conflict review. No tax return information identifying a taxpayer may be disclosed in any evaluative reports or recommendations that may be accessible to any person other than those responsible for identifying, evaluating, or monitoring legal and ethical conflicts of interest. No tax return information identifying a taxpayer may be disclosed outside of the United States or a territory or possession of the United States unless the disclosing and receiving tax return preparers have procedures in place that are consistent with good business practices and designed to maintain the confidentiality of the disclosed tax return information.
(3) Any person (including administrative and support personnel) receiving tax return information in connection with a quality, peer, or conflict review is a tax return preparer for purposes of sections 7216(a) and 6713(a). Tax return information disclosed and used for purposes of a quality, peer, or conflict review shall not be disclosed or used for any other purpose.
(q)
Disclosure to report the commission of a crime.
The provisions of section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1 shall not apply to the disclosure of any tax return information to the proper Federal, State, or local official in order, and to the extent necessary, to inform the official of activities that may constitute, or may have constituted, a violation of any criminal law or to assist the official in investigating or prosecuting a violation of criminal law. A disclosure made in the bona fide but mistaken belief that the activities constituted a violation of criminal law is not subject to section 7216(a) and § 301.7216-1.
(r)
Disclosure of tax return information due to a tax return preparer's incapacity or death.
In the event of incapacity or death of a tax return preparer, disclosure of tax return information may be made for the purpose of assisting the tax return preparer or his legal representative (or the representative of a deceased tax return preparer's estate) in operating the business. Any person receiving tax return information under the provisions of this paragraph (r) is a tax return preparer for purposes of sections 7216(a) and 6713(a).
(s)
Effective/applicability date.
Paragraphs (n), (o), and (p) of this section apply to disclosures or uses of tax return information occurring on or after December 28, 2012. All other paragraphs of this section apply to disclosures or uses of tax return information occurring on or after January 1, 2009.
[T.D. 9375, 73 FR 1069, Jan. 7, 2008, as amended by T.D. 9478, 75 FR 52, Jan. 4, 2010; T.D. 9608, 77 FR 76404, Dec. 28, 2012]
§ 301.7216-3
Disclosure or use permitted only with the taxpayer's consent.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Taxpayer consent.
Unless section 7216 or § 301.7216-2 specifically authorizes the disclosure or use of tax return information, a tax return preparer may not disclose or use a taxpayer's tax return information prior to obtaining a written consent from
the taxpayer, as described in this section. A tax return preparer may disclose or use tax return information as the taxpayer directs as long as the preparer obtains a written consent from the taxpayer as provided in this section. The consent must be knowing and voluntary. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, conditioning the provision of any services on the taxpayer's furnishing consent will make the consent involuntary, and the consent will not satisfy the requirements of this section.
(2)
Taxpayer consent to a tax return preparer furnishing tax return information to another tax return preparer.
(i) A tax return preparer may condition its provision of preparation services upon a taxpayer's consenting to disclosure of the taxpayer's tax return information to another tax return preparer for the purpose of performing services that assist in the preparation of, or provide auxiliary services in connection with the preparation of, the tax return of the taxpayer.
(ii)
Example.
The application of this paragraph (a)(2) may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Preparer P, who is located within the United States, is retained by Company C to provide tax return preparation services for employees of Company C. An employee of Company C, Employee E, works for C outside of the United States. To provide tax return preparation services for E, P requires the assistance of and needs to disclose E's tax return information to a tax return preparer who works for P's affiliate located in the country where E works. P may condition its provision of tax return preparation services upon E consenting to the disclosure of E's tax return information to the tax return preparer in the country where E works.
(3)
The form and contents of taxpayer consents
—(i)
In general.
All consents to disclose or use tax return information must satisfy the following requirements—
(A) A taxpayer's consent to a tax return preparer's disclosure or use of tax return information must include the name of the tax return preparer and the name of the taxpayer.
(B) If a taxpayer consents to a disclosure of tax return information, the consent must identify the intended purpose of the disclosure. Except as provided in § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(iii), if a taxpayer consents to a disclosure of tax return information, the consent must also identify the specific recipient (or recipients) of the tax return information. If the taxpayer consents to use of tax return information, the consent must describe the particular use authorized. For example, if the tax return preparer intends to use tax return information to generate solicitations for products or services other than tax return preparation, the consent must identify each specific type of product or service for which the tax return preparer may solicit use of the tax return information. Examples of products or services that must be identified include, but are not limited to, balance due loans, mortgage loans, mutual funds, individual retirement accounts, and life insurance.
(C) The consent must specify the tax return information to be disclosed or used by the return preparer.
(D) If a tax return preparer to whom the tax return information is to be disclosed is located outside of the United States, the taxpayer's consent under § 301.7216-3 prior to any disclosure is required. See § 301.7216-2(c) and (d).
(E) A consent to disclose or use tax return information must be signed and dated by the taxpayer.
(ii)
The form and contents of taxpayer consents with respect to taxpayers filing a return in the Form 1040 series—guidance describing additional requirements for taxpayer consents with respect to Form 1040 series filers.
The Secretary may issue guidance, by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter), describing additional requirements for tax return preparers regarding the format and content of consents to disclose and use tax return information with respect to taxpayers filing a return in the Form 1040 series, e.g., Form 1040, Form 1040NR, Form 1040A, or Form 1040EZ.
(iii)
The form and contents of taxpayer consents with respect to all other taxpayers.
A consent to disclose or use tax return information with respect to a taxpayer not filing a return in the Form 1040 series may be in any format, including an engagement letter to a client, as long as the consent complies with the requirements of § 301.7216-
3(a)(3)(i). Additionally, the requirements of § 301.7216-3(c)(1) are inapplicable to consents to disclose or use tax return information with respect to taxpayers not filing a return in the Form 1040 series. Solely for purposes of a consent issued under § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(iii), in lieu of identifying specific recipients of an intended disclosure under § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(i)(B), a consent may allow disclosure to a descriptive class of entities engaged by a taxpayer or the taxpayer's affiliate for purposes of services in connection with the preparation of tax returns, audited financial statements, or other financial statements or financial information as required by a government authority, municipality or regulatory body.
(iv)
Examples.
The application of § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(iii) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Consistent with applicable legal and ethical responsibilities, Preparer Z sends its client, a corporation, Taxpayer C, an engagement letter. Part of the engagement letter requests the consent of Taxpayer C for the purpose of disclosing tax return information to an investment banking firm to assist the investment banking firm in securing long term financing for Taxpayer C. The engagement letter includes language and information that meets the requirements of § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(i), including: (I) Preparer Z's name, Taxpayer C's name, and a signature and date line for Taxpayer C; and (II) a statement that “Taxpayer C authorizes Preparer Z to disclose the portions of Taxpayer C's 2009 tax return information to the firm retained by Taxpayer C necessary for the purposes of assisting Taxpayer C secure long term financing.” The engagement letter satisfies the requirements of § 301.7216-3(a)(3) for the disclosure of the information provided therein for the specific purpose stated.

# Example 2.
Consistent with applicable legal and ethical responsibilities, Preparer N sends its client, a corporation, Taxpayer D, an engagement letter. Part of the engagement letter requests the consent of Taxpayer D for the purpose of disclosing tax return information to Preparer N's affiliated firms located outside of the United States for the purposes of preparation of Taxpayer D's 2009 tax return”. The engagement letter includes language and information that meets the requirements of § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(i), including: (I) Preparer N's name, Taxpayer D's name, and a signature and date line for Taxpayer D; (II) a statement that “Taxpayer D authorizes Preparer N to disclose Taxpayer D's 2009 tax return information to Preparer N's affiliates located outside of the United States for the purposes of assisting Preparer N prepare Taxpayer D's 2009 tax return”; and (III) a statement that, in providing consent, Taxpayer D acknowledges that its tax return information for 2009 will be disclosed to tax return preparers located abroad. The engagement letter satisfies the requirements of § 301.7216-3(a)(3) for the disclosure of the information provided therein for the specific purpose stated.
(b)
Timing requirements and limitations
—(1)
No retroactive consent.
A taxpayer must provide written consent before a tax return preparer discloses or uses the taxpayer's tax return information.
(2)
Time limitations on requesting consent in solicitation context.
A tax return preparer may not request a taxpayer's consent to disclose or use tax return information for purposes of solicitation of business unrelated to tax return preparation after the tax return preparer provides a completed tax return to the taxpayer for signature.
(3)
No requests for consent after an unsuccessful request.
With regard to tax return information for each income tax return that a tax return preparer prepares, if a taxpayer declines a request for consent to the disclosure or use of tax return information for purposes of solicitation of business unrelated to tax return preparation, the tax return preparer may not solicit from the taxpayer another consent for a purpose substantially similar to that of the rejected request.
(4)
No consent to the disclosure of a taxpayer's social security number to a return preparer outside of the United States with respect to a taxpayer filing a return in the Form 1040 Series
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a tax return preparer located within the United States, including any territory or possession of the United States, may not obtain consent to disclose the taxpayer's social security number (SSN) with respect to a taxpayer filing a return in the Form 1040 Series, for example, Form 1040, Form 1040NR, Form 1040A, or Form 1040EZ, to a tax return preparer located outside of the United States or any territory or possession of the United States. Thus, if a tax return preparer located within the United States (including any territory or possession of the United States) obtains
consent from an individual taxpayer to disclose tax return information to another tax return preparer located outside of the United States, as provided under §§ 301.7216-2(c) and 301.7216-2(d), the tax return preparer located in the United States may not disclose the taxpayer's SSN, and the tax return preparer must redact or otherwise mask the taxpayer's SSN before the tax return information is disclosed outside of the United States. If a tax return preparer located within the United States initially receives or obtains a taxpayer's SSN from another tax return preparer located outside of the United States, however, the tax return preparer within the United States may, without consent, retransmit the taxpayer's SSN to the tax return preparer located outside the United States that initially provided the SSN to the tax return preparer located within the United States. For purposes of this section, a tax return preparer located outside of the United States does not include a tax return preparer who is continuously and regularly employed in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States and who is in a temporary travel status outside of the United States.
(ii)
Exception.
A tax return preparer located within the United States, including any territory or possession of the United States, may obtain consent to disclose the taxpayer's SSN to a tax return preparer located outside of the United States or any territory or possession of the United States only if the tax return preparer within the United States discloses the SSN to a tax return preparer outside of the United States through the use of an adequate data protection safeguard as defined by the Secretary in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter) and verifies the maintenance of the adequate data protection safeguards in the request for the taxpayer's consent pursuant to the specifications described by the Secretary in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
(5)
Duration of consent.
A consent document may specify the duration of the taxpayer's consent to the disclosure or use of tax return information. If a consent agreed to by the taxpayer does not specify the duration of the consent, the consent to the disclosure or use of tax return information will be effective for a period of one year from the date the taxpayer signed the consent.
(c)
Special rules
—(1)
Multiple disclosures within a single consent form or multiple uses within a single consent form.
A taxpayer may consent to multiple uses within the same written document, or multiple disclosures within the same written document. A single written document, however, cannot authorize both uses and disclosures; rather one written document must authorize the uses and another separate written document must authorize the disclosures. Furthermore, a consent that authorizes multiple disclosures or multiple uses must specifically and separately identify each disclosure or use. See § 301.7216-3(a)(3)(iii) for an exception to this rule for certain taxpayers.
(2)
Disclosure of entire return.
A consent may authorize the disclosure of all information contained within a return. A consent authorizing the disclosure of an entire return must provide that the taxpayer has the ability to request a more limited disclosure of tax return information as the taxpayer may direct.
(3)
Copy of consent must be provided to taxpayer.
The tax return preparer must provide a copy of the executed consent to the taxpayer at the time of execution. The requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) may also be satisfied by giving the taxpayer the opportunity, at the time of executing the consent, to print the completed consent or save it in electronic form.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to disclosures or uses of tax return information occurring on or after January 1, 2009.
[T.D. 9375, 73 FR 1073, Jan. 7, 2008, as amended by T.D. 9409, 73 FR 37806, July 2, 2008; T.D. 9437, 73 FR 76217, Dec. 16, 2008]

# penalties applicable to certain taxes
§ 301.7231-1
Failure to obtain license for collection of foreign items.
For provisions relating to the obtaining of a license for the collection of foreign items, see section 7001 and § 301.7001-1.

# Other Offenses
§ 301.7269-1
Failure to produce records.
Whoever fails to comply with any duty imposed upon him by section 6018, 6036 (in the case of an executor), or 6075(a), or, having in his possession or control any record, file, or paper, containing or supposed to contain any information concerning the estate of the decedent, or, having in his possession or control any property comprised in the gross estate of the decedent, fails to exhibit the same upon request of any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service who desires to examine the same in the performance of his duties under chapter 11 of the Code (relating to estate taxes) shall be liable to a penalty of not exceeding $500, to be recovered with costs of suit, in a civil action in the name of the United States.
§ 301.7272-1
Penalty for failure to register.
(a) Any person who fails to register with the district director as required by the Code or by regulations issued thereunder shall be liable to a penalty of $50 except that on and after September 3, 1958, this section shall not apply to persons required to register under subtitle E of the Code, or persons engaging in a trade or business on which a special tax is imposed by such subtitle.
(b) For provisions relating to registration under sections 4101, 4412, 4455, 4722, 4753, and 4804(d), see the regulations relating to the particular tax. For regulations under section 7011, see § 301.7011-1.

# Forfeitures

# property subject to forfeiture
§ 301.7304-1
Penalty for fraudulently claiming drawback.
Whenever any person fraudulently claims or seeks to obtain an allowance of drawback on goods, wares, or merchandise on which no internal tax shall have been paid, or fraudulently claims any greater allowance of drawback than the tax actually paid, he shall forfeit triple the amount wrongfully or fraudulently claimed or sought to be obtained, or the sum of $500, at the election of the district director.

# provisions common to forfeitures
§ 301.7321-1
Seizure of property.
Any property subject to forfeiture to the United States under any provision of the Code may be seized by the district director or assistant regional commissioner (alcohol, tobacco, and firearms). Upon seizure of property by the district director he shall notify the assistant regional commissioner (alcohol, tobacco, and firearms) for the region wherein the district is located who will take charge of the property and arrange for its disposal or retention under the provisions of law and regulations applicable thereto.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12794, June 29, 1972; T.D. ATF-33, 41 FR 44038, Oct. 6, 1976]
§ 301.7322-1
Delivery of seized property to U.S. marshal.
Any forfeitable property which may be seized under the provisions of the Code may, at the option of the assistant regional commissioner (alcohol, tobacco, and firearms) be delivered to the U.S. marshal of the judicial district wherein the property was seized, and remain in the care and custody and under the control of such marshal, pending the disposal thereof as provided by law.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12794, June 29, 1972; T.D. ATF-33, 41 FR 44038, Oct. 6, 1976]
§ 301.7324-1
Special disposition of perishable goods.
For regulations relating to the disposal of perishable goods, see § 172.30 of this chapter (Disposition of Seized Personal Property).
§ 301.7325-1
Personal property valued at $2,500 or less.
For regulations relating to the forfeiture of personal property valued at $2,500 or less, see part 172 of this chapter (Disposition of Seized Personal Property).
§ 301.7326-1
Disposal of forfeited or abandoned property in special cases.
(a)
Coin-operated gaming devices.
For regulations relating to the disposal of coin-operated gaming devices, see § 172.65 of this chapter (Disposition of Seized Personal Property).
(b)
Narcotics.
For regulations relating to the disposal of forfeited narcotic drugs, see 21 CFR 302.56. For the disposal of forfeited marihuana, see 26 CFR (1939) 152.99 and 152.100 (Regulations under the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, as amended).
(c)
Firearms.
For regulations relating to the disposal of forfeited firearms or ammunition, see § 178.166 of this chapter (Commerce in Firearms and Ammunition), and § 179.182 of this chapter (Machine Guns, Destructive Devices, and Certain Other Firearms).
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12796, June 29, 1972]
§ 301.7327-1
Customs laws applicable.
For regulations relating to the remission or mitigation of forfeitures, see part 172 of this chapter (Disposition of Seized Personal Property).

# Judicial Proceedings

# Civil Actions by the United States
§ 301.7401-1
Authorization.
(a)
In general.
No civil action for the collection or recovery of taxes, or of any fine, penalty, or forfeiture, shall be commenced unless the Commissioner (or the Director, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, with respect to the provisions of subtitle E of the Code), or the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service or his delegate authorizes or sanctions the proceedings and the Attorney General or his delegate directs that the action be commenced.
(b)
Property held by banks.
The Commissioner shall not authorize or sanction any civil action for the collection or recovery of taxes, or of any fine, penalty, or forfeiture, from any deposits held in a foreign office of a bank engaged in the banking business in the United States or a possession of the United States unless the Commissioner believes—
(1) That the taxpayer is within the jurisdiction of a U.S. court at the time the civil action is authorized or sanctioned and that the bank is in possession of (or obligated with respect to) deposits of the taxpayer in an office of the bank outside the United States or a possession of the United States; or
(2) That the taxpayer is not within the jurisdiction of a U.S. court at the time the civil action is authorized or sanctioned, that the bank is in possession of (or obligated with respect to) deposits of the taxpayer in an office outside the United States or a possession of the United States, and that such deposits consist, in whole or in part, of funds transferred from the United States or a possession of the United States in order to hinder or delay the collection of a tax imposed by the Code.
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “possession of the United States” includes Guam, the Midway Islands, the Panama Canal Zone, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and Wake Island.
[32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7188, 37 FR 12796, June 29, 1972]
§ 301.7403-1
Action to enforce lien or to subject property to payment of tax.
(a)
Civil actions.
In any case where there has been a refusal or neglect to pay any tax, or to discharge any liability in respect thereof, whether or not levy has been made, the Attorney General or his delegate, at the request of the Commissioner (or the Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, or the Chief Counsel for the Bureau, with respect to the provisions of subtitle E of the Code), or the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service or his delegate, may direct a civil action to be filed in a district court of the United States to enforce the lien of the United States under the Code with respect to such tax or liability or to subject any property, of whatever nature, of the delinquent, or in which he has any right, title or interest, to the payment of such tax or liability. In any such proceeding, at the instance of the United States, the court may appoint a receiver to enforce the lien, or, upon
certification by the Commissioner or the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service during the pendency of such proceedings that it is in the public interest, may appoint a receiver with all the powers of a receiver in equity.
(b)
Bid by the United States.
If property is sold to satisfy a first lien held by the United States, the United States may bid at the sale a sum which does not exceed the amount of its lien and the expenses of the sale. See also 31 U.S.C. 195.
[T.D. 7305, 39 FR 9950, Mar. 15, 1974]
§ 301.7404-1
Authority to bring civil action for estate taxes.
(a) If the estate tax imposed by chapter 11 of the Code is not paid on or before the last date prescribed for payment, the district director shall proceed to collect the tax under the provisions of general law; or appropriate proceedings in the name of the United States may be commenced in any court having jurisdiction to subject the property of the decedent to be sold under the judgment or decree of the court.
(b) The remedy by action provided in section 7404 is not exclusive. The district director may proceed to collect the tax by levy, as provided in section 6331, on any or all property or rights to property of the estate, or collection may be enforced by an appropriate action against the executor, certain transferees, trustees, and beneficiaries for their personal liability. See § 20.2002-1 of this chapter (Estate Tax Regulations).
§ 301.7406-1
Disposition of judgments and moneys recovered.
All judgments and moneys recovered or received for taxes, costs, forfeitures, and penalties shall be paid to the district director as collections of internal revenue taxes.
§ 301.7409-1
Action to enjoin flagrant political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations.
(a)
Letter to organization.
When the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) concludes that a section 501(c)(3) organization has engaged in flagrant political intervention and is likely to continue to engage in political intervention that involves political expenditures, the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) shall send a letter to the organization providing it with the facts based on which the Service believes that the organization has been engaging in flagrant political intervention and is likely to continue to engage in political intervention that involves political expenditures. The organization will have 10 calendar days after the letter is sent to respond by establishing that it will immediately cease engaging in political intervention, or by providing the Service with sufficient information to refute the Service's evidence that it has been engaged in flagrant political intervention. The Internal Revenue Service will not proceed to seek an injunction under section 7409 until after the close of this 10-day response period.
(b)
Determination by Commissioner.
If the organization does not respond within 10 calendar days to the letter under paragraph (a) of this section in a manner sufficient to dissuade the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) of the need for an injunction, the file will be forwarded to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue will personally determine whether to forward to the Department of Justice a recommendation that it immediately bring an action to enjoin the organization from making further political expenditures. The Commissioner may also recommend that the court action include any other action that is appropriate in ensuring that the assets of the section 501(c)(3) organization are preserved for section 501(c)(3) purposes. The authority of the Commissioner to make the determinations described in this paragraph may not be delegated to any other persons.
(c)
Flagrant political intervention.
For purposes of this section,
flagrant political intervention
is defined as participation in, or intervention in (including the publication and distribution of statements), any political campaign by a section 501(c)(3) organization on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office in violation of the prohibition on such participation or intervention in section 501(c)(3) and
the regulations thereunder if the participation or intervention is flagrant.
(d)
Effective date.
This section is effective December 5, 1995.
[T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995]

# Proceedings by Taxpayers and Third Parties
§ 301.7422-1
Special rules for certain excise taxes imposed by chapter 42 or 43.
(a)
Finality of refund proceeding.
For purposes of sections 4941, 4942, 4943, 4944, 4945, 4951, 4952, 4955, 4958, 4961, 4963, 4971, and 4975, and the regulations thereunder, a decision in a suit for refund instituted under the provisions of this section shall be final—
(1) Upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a notice of appeal from a decision of the United States Claims Court or of the United States District Court, if no timely notice of appeal is filed; or
(2) Upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for certiorari from a decision of the United States Claims Court, or from a decision of the United States District Court, which has been affirmed or the appeal dismissed by the United States Court of Appeals, if no timely petition for certiorari is filed; or
(3) If a petition for certiorari has been filed, thirty days from the denial of such petition; or
(4) Thirty days from the date of a decision of the United States Supreme Court if no timely petition for rehearing is filed; however, if a timely petition for rehearing from such a decision is filed, and is denied, thirty days from the denial thereof; or
(5) If a decision is entered upon a rehearing or if a decision is modified or reversed as the result of a decision of a higher court, upon the expiration, with respect to the decision on rehearing or the modified or reversed decision, of periods similar to those provided in subparagraphs (1) through (4).
(b)
Right to bring action.
With respect to any taxable event, payment of the full amount of first tier tax for the taxable period shall constitute sufficient payment in order to maintain an action under this section with respect to the second tier tax.
(c)
Limitation on suit for refund.
No suit may be maintained under this section for the credit or refund of any tax imposed under section 4941, 4942, 4943, 4944, 4945, 4951, 4952, 4955, 4958, 4971, or 4975 with respect to any taxable event unless—
(1) No other suit has been maintained for credit or refund of any tax imposed by such sections with respect to such taxable event; and
(2) No petition has been filed in the Tax Court with respect to a deficiency in any tax imposed by such sections with respect to such taxable event.
(d)
Final determination of issues.
For purposes of this section, any suit for the credit or refund of any tax imposed under section 4941, 4942, 4943, 4944, 4945, 4951, 4952, 4955, 4958, 4971, or 4975, together with a supplemental proceeding (if any) under section 4961 (b), with respect to any taxable event, shall constitute a suit to determine all questions with respect to any other tax imposed with respect to such taxable event under such sections. Consequently, failure by the parties to the suit to bring before the Court any question described in the preceding sentence shall constitute a bar to the question.
(e)
Definitions.
For definitions of the terms “taxable event,” “first tier tax,” and “second tier tax,” see § 53.4963-1.
[T.D. 8084, 51 FR 16305, May 2, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995; T.D. 8920, 66 FR 2171, Jan. 10, 2001]
§ 301.7423-1
Repayments to officers or employees.
The Commissioner is authorized to repay to any officer or employee of the United States the full amount of such sums of money as may be recovered against him in any court, for any internal revenue taxes collected by him, with the cost and expense of suit, and all damages and costs recovered against any officer or employee of the United States in any suit brought against him by reason of anything done in the official performance of his duties under the Code.
§ 301.7424-2
Intervention.
If the United States is not a party to a civil action or suit, the United States may intervene in such action or suit to
assert any lien arising under title 26 of the United States Code on the property which is the subject of such action or suit. The provisions of section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code (except subsection (b)) and of section 1444 of title 28 of the United States Code shall apply in any case in which the United States intervenes as if the United States had originally been named a defendant in such action or suit. If the application of the United States to intervene is denied, the adjudication in such civil action or suit shall have no effect upon such lien.
[T.D. 7305, 39 FR 9951, Mar. 15, 1974]
§ 301.7425-1
Discharge of liens; scope and application; judicial proceedings.
(a)
In general.
A tax lien of the United States, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien of the United States, may be discharged or divested under local law only in the manner prescribed in section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code or in the manner prescribed in section 7425 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 7425 (a) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien when the United States is not joined as a party in the judicial proceedings described in subsection (a) of section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code. These judicial proceedings are plenary in nature and proceed on formal pleadings. Section 7425(b) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien in the event of a nonjudicial sale with respect to the property involved. Section 7425 (c) contains special rules relating to the notice of sale requirements contained in section 7425(b). Section 301.7425-2 contains rules with respect to the nonjudicial sales described in section 7425(b). Paragraph (a) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules with respect to the notice of sale provisions of section 7425(c)(1). Paragraph (b) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules relating to the consent to sale provisions of section 7425(c)(2). Paragraph (c) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules relating to the sale of perishable goods provisions of section 7425(c)(3). Paragraph (d) of § 301.7425-3 contains the requirements with respect to the contents of a notice of sale. Section 301.7425-4 prescribes rules with respect to the redemption of real property by the United States.
(b)
Effective date.
The provisions of section 7425, as added by the Federal Tax Lien Act of 1966, are effective with respect to sales described in section 7425 occurring after November 2, 1966. The notice of sale provisions of section 7425 (c) (1) or (3) do not apply to sales occurring after Nobember 2, 1966, if the seller of the property performed an act before November 3, 1966, which act at the time of performance was required and effective under local law with respect to the sale. An example of such an act is publication of a notice of the sale in a local newspaper before November 3, 1966, if local law requires such publication before a sale and the publication is effective under local law. Accordingly, in such a case, it is not necessary to notify the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to the provisions of section 7425 (c) (1) or (3). With respect to a notice of sale required under section 7425 (c) (1) or (3)—
(1) Any notice of sale given to an office of the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury Department during the period November 3, 1966, through December 21, 1966, shall be considered as adequate;
(2) Any notice of sale given during the period December 22, 1966, through January 31, 1968, which complies with the provisions of either—
(i) Revenue Procedure 67-25, 1967-1 C.B. 626 (based on Technical Information Release 873, dated December 22, 1966), or
(ii) Section 301.7425-3, shall be considered as adequate; and
(3) Any notice of sale given after January 31, 1968, which complies with the provisions of § 301.7425-3 shall be considered as adequate.
(c)
Judicial proceedings
—(1)
In general.
Section 7425 (a) provides rules, where the United States is not joined as a party, to determine the effect of a judgment in any civil action or suit described in subsection (a) of section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code (relating to joinder of the United States in certain proceedings), or a judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment, with respect to property on which the United States has or claims
a lien under the provisions of this title. If the United States is improperly named as a party to a judicial proceeding, the effect is the same as if the United States were not joined.
(2)
Notice of lien filed when the proceeding is commenced.
Where the United States is not properly joined as a party in the court proceeding and a notice of lien has been filed in accordance with section 6323 (f) or (g) in the place provided by law for such filing at the time the action or suit is commenced, a judgment or judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment shall be made subject to and without disturbing the lien of the United States.
(3)
Notice of lien not filed when the proceeding is commenced
—(i)
General rule.
Where the United States is not joined as a party in the court proceeding and either a notice of lien has not been filed in accordance with section 6323 (f) or (g) in the place provided by law for such filing at the time the action or suit is commenced, or the law makes no provision for that filing, a judgment or judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment shall have the same effect with respect to the discharge or divestment of the lien of the United States as may be provided with respect to these matters by the local law of the place where the property is situated.
(ii)
Examples.
The provisions of subparagraph (3) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, the first mortgagee of an apartment building located in State Y, commenced a foreclosure action on the mortgage prior to the time that a notice of a Federal tax lien, on that building, had been filed. Under the law of Y, junior liens on real property are discharged by a judicial sale pursuant to a judgment in a foreclosure action. Therefore, the Federal tax lien on the building will be discharged by the judicial sale. This result is the same whether the tax lien arose before or after the date of commencement of the foreclosure action and whether notice of the tax lien was filed at any time after commencement of the foreclosure action.

# Example 2.
On January 10, 1969, B dies testate and devises Blackacre to C. At B's death, Blackacre is subject to a first mortgage held by D. Realty is subject to administration as part of a decedent's estate under the laws of State X. However, C takes possession of Blackacre with the assent of E, the executor of B's estate. On January 5, 1970, D commences a foreclosure action on the mortgage. Under the law of X, junior liens on real property are discharged by a judicial sale pursuant to a judgment in a foreclosure action. After commencement of the proceedings, an assessment for estate taxes is made and, thereafter, a notice of lien is filed in accordance with section 6323. The special lien on Blackacre, arising at the date of B's death, for estate taxes under section 6324(a) will be discharged by the judicial sale because there are no provisions for filing a notice thereof under law and junior liens are discharged by the sale under local law. The lien is discharged even though the executor failed to obtain a discharge of his personal liability under section 2204. Furthermore, the general lien on Blackacre under section 6321 will be discharged by the judicial sale because the foreclosure action was commenced prior to the time that a notice of lien was filed.
(4)
Proceeds of a judicial sale.
If a judicial sale of property pursuant to a judgment in any civil action or suit to which the United States is not a party discharges a lien of the United States arising under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the United States may claim the proceeds of the sale (exclusive of costs) prior to the time that distribution of the proceeds is ordered. The claim of the United States in such a case is treated as having the same priority with respect to the proceeds as the lien had with respect to the property which was discharged from the lien by the judicial sale.
[T.D. 7430, 41 FR 35178, Aug. 20, 1976]
§ 301.7425-2
Discharge of liens; nonjudicial sales.
(a)
In general.
Section 7425(b) contains provisions with respect to the effect on the interest of the United States in property in which the United States has or claims a lien, or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien, of a sale made pursuant to—
(1) An instrument creating a lien on the property sold,
(2) A confession of judgment on the obligation secured by an instrument creating a lien on the property sold, or
(3) A statutory lien on the property sold.
For purposes of this section, such a sale is referred to as a “nonjudicial
sale.” The term “nonjudicial sale” includes, but is not limited to, the divestment of the taxpayer's interest in property which occurs by operation of law, by public or private sale, by forfeiture, or by termination under provisions contained in a contract for a deed or a conditional sales contract. Under section 7425(b)(1), if a notice of lien is filed in accordance with section 6323 (f) or (g), or the title derived from the enforcement of a lien is recorded as provided by local law, more than 30 days before the date of sale, and the appropriate district director is not given notice of the sale (in the manner prescribed in § 301.7425-3), the sale shall be made subject to and without disturbing the lien or title of the United States. Under section 7425(b)(2)(C), in any case in which notice of the sale is given to the district director not less than 25 days prior to the date of sale (in the manner prescribed in section 7425(c)(1)), the sale shall have the same effect with respect to the discharge or divestment of the lien or title as may be provided by local law with respect to other junior liens or other titles derived from the enforcement of junior liens. A nonjudicial sale pursuant to a lien which is junior to a tax lien does not divest the tax lien, even though notice of the nonjudicial sale is given to the appropriate district director. However, under the provisions of section 6325(b) and § 301.6325-1, a district director may discharge the property from a tax lien, including a tax lien which is senior to another lien upon the property.
(b)
Date of sale.
In the case of a nonjudicial sale subject to the provisions of section 7425(b), in order to compute any period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, the date of sale shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(1) In the case of divestment of junior liens on property resulting directly from a public sale, the date of sale is deemed to be the date the public sale is held, regardless of the date under local law on which junior liens on the property are divested or the title to the property is transferred,
(2) In the case of divestment of junior liens on property resulting directly from a private sale, the date of sale is deemed to be the date title to the property is transferred, regardless of the date junior liens on the property are divested under local law, and
(3) In the case of divestment of junior liens on property not resulting directly from a public or private sale, the date of sale is deemed to be the date on which junior liens on the property are divested under local law.
For provisions relating to the right of redemption of the United States, see section 7425(d) and § 301.7425-4.
(c)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i) Under the law of State M, upon entry of judgment, the judgment creditor obtains a statutory lien upon the real property of the judgment debtor, and certain procedures are provided by which the judgment creditor may execute by public sale upon such real property. These procedures provide, among other things, for notification by personal service or registered or certified mail to other lien creditors, if any, and publication of a notice of the sale in a local newspaper. After the expiration of a prescribed period of time after such notification and publication, the sheriff of the county where the real property is located may sell the property at public sale. After payment of the amount bid at the public sale, the sheriff issues to the purchaser a deed to the real property, and the interests of junior lienors in the property are divested.
(ii) For purposes of this section, such an execution sale is a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b) because the sale is made pursuant to a statutory lien on the property sold. The date of sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date on which the public sale is held because junior liens on the real property are divested directly as a result of the public sale. This result obtains even though the junior liens are legally divested on a later date when the sheriff issues the deed.

# Example 2.
(i) Under the law of State N, mortgages on real property may contain a power of sale which authorizes the mortgagee, upon breach by the mortgagor of one of the conditions of the mortgage, to have the mortgaged property sold at public sale. This public sale must be preceded by notice by advertisement in a local newspaper, and the time, place, description of the property, and other terms of the sale must be specified. The purchaser at such a public sale obtains a title to the real property which is not subject to a right of redemption by the mortgagor and which divests the interests of the junior lienors in the property.
(ii) For purposes of this section, a sale pursuant to such a power of sale is a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b) because the sale is made pursuant to the mortgage instrument which created a lien on the property sold. The date of the sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date of the public sale because junior liens on the property are divested directly as a result of the public sale.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example 2 except that the purchaser at the public sale obtains a title which is defeasible by the exercise of a right of redemption in the mortgagor. The purchaser's title divests the interests of junior lienors in the property as of the time of public sale. The interests of junior leinors in the property revive if the mortgagor exercises his right of redemption. The date of the sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date of the public sale because junior liens on the property are divested directly as a result of the public sale although such junior liens may be revived by a subsequent redemption by the mortgagor.

# Example 4.
(i) Under the law of State O, upon breach by a mortgagor of real property of one of the conditions of the mortgage, the mortgagee may foreclose the mortgage by securing possession of the property by one of several procedures provided by statute. These procedures are generally referred to as “strict foreclosure.” In order for a foreclosure to be effective under these procedures, a certificate attesting the fact of entry must be recorded with the proper registrar of deeds within 30 days after the mortgagee enters the property. During the one-year period following the date on which the certificate of entry is recorded, the mortgagor or a junior lienor may redeem the property by paying the mortgagee the amount of the mortgage obligation. If, during such one-year period the property is not redeemed and the mortgagee's possession is continued, the interests of the mortgagor and the junior lienors in the property are divested as of the date such one-year period expires.
(ii) For purposes of this section, such a foreclosure procedure is a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b) because it results in the divestment of the mortgagor's interest in the property by operation of law pursuant to the mortgage which created a lien on the property. In addition, because there is no public or private sale which directly results in the divestment of junior liens on the property, the date of sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date on which the one-year period following the recording of the certificate of entry expires.

# Example 5.
The law of State P contains a procedure which permits a county to collect a delinquent tax assessment with respect to real property by the means of a tax sale of the property. First, a notice of a public auction with respect to the tax assessment on the real property is published in a local newspaper. At the public auction, the purchaser, upon payment of the delinquent taxes and interest, obtains from the county tax collector a tax certificate with respect to the real property. Because the obtaining of this tax certificate does not directly result in the divestment of either the owner's title or junior liens with respect to the property, the public auction is not a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b). At any time before a tax deed with respect to the property is issued by the clerk of the county court, the owner or any holder of a lien or other interest with respect to the property may obtain the tax certificate by paying the holder of the tax certificate the amount of the taxes, interest, and costs. After a date which is two years after the date on which the tax assessment became delinquent, the holder of the tax certificate may request the clerk of the county court to have the property advertised for sale. After advertisement of the sale, the clerk of the county court conducts a public sale of the real property and the purchaser obtains a tax deed. The interests of all junior lienors in the property are divested and the property is not subject to a right of redemption under the law of State P. For purposes of this section, this public sale is considered to be a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b) because the sale is made pursuant to a statutory lien on the property sold. The date of the sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date on which the public sale is held at which the purchaser obtains a tax deed as this sale directly results in the divestment of junior liens on the property.

# Example 6.
The law of State Q contains a provision which permits a county to collect a delinquent tax assessment with respect to real property by the means of a tax sale of the property. After public notice is given, a “tax sale” of the real property is conducted. Upon payment of the delinquent taxes and interest, a purchaser obtains a tax certificate with respect to the real property. If there is no purchaser at the tax sale, the property is deemed to be bid in by the State. Because the obtaining of this tax certificate by a purchaser or State Q does not directly result in the divestment of either the owner's title or junior liens with respect to the property, the tax sale is not a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b). Following the tax sale, there is a three-year period during which any person having an interest in the property may redeem the property by paying the holder of the tax certificate the
amount of taxes, interest, and costs. Unless, redeemed, the holder of the tax certificate may obtain an absolute title at the expiration of the period of redemption provided he serves a notice of the expiration of the redemption period upon the owner at least 60 days prior to the date of expiration. Because there is no public or private sale which directly results in the divestment of junior liens on the property, the date of sale, for purposes of computing a period of time determined with reference to the date of sale, is the date on which the holder of the tax certificate obtains absolute title.
[T.D. 7430, 41 FR 35178, Aug. 20, 1976]
§ 301.7425-3
Discharge of liens; special rules.
(a)
Notice of sale requirements
—(1)
In general.
Except in the case of the sale of perishable goods described in paragraph (c) of this section, a notice (as described in paragraph (d) of this section) of a nonjudicial sale shall be given, in writing by registered or certified mail or by personal service, not less than 25 days prior to the date of sale (determined under the provisions of § 301.7425-2(b)), to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) official, office and address specified in IRS Publication 786, “Instructions for Preparing a Notice of Nonjudicial Sale of Property and Application for Consent to Sale,” or any successor publication. The relevant IRS publications may be downloaded from the IRS Internet site at
http://www.irs.gov.
Under this section, a notice of sale is not effective if it is given to an office other than the office listed in the relevant publication. The provisions of sections 7502 (relating to timely mailing treated as timely filing) and 7503 (relating to time for performance of acts where the last day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday) apply in the case of notices required to be made under this paragraph.
(2)
Postponement of scheduled sale
—(i)
Where notice of sale is given.
In the event that notice of a sale is given in accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), with respect to a scheduled sale which is postponed to a later time or date, the seller of the property is required to give notice of the postponement to the IRS in the same manner as is required under local law with respect to other secured creditors. For example, assume that in State M local law requires that in the event of a postponement of a scheduled foreclosure sale of real property, an oral announcement of the postponement at the place and time of the scheduled sale constitutes sufficient notice to secured creditors of the postponement. Accordingly, if at the place and time of a scheduled sale in State M an oral announcement of the postponement is made, the Internal Revenue Service is considered to have notice of the postponement for the purpose of this subparagraph.
(ii)
Where notice of sale is not given.
In the event that—
(A) Notice of a nonjudicial sale would not be required under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (a), if the sale were held on the originally scheduled date,
(B) Because of a postponement of the scheduled sale, more than 30 days elapse between the originally scheduled date of the sale and the date of the sale, and
(C) A notice of lien with respect to the property to be sold is filed more than 30 days before the date of the sale, notice of the sale is required to be given to the IRS in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In any case in which notice of sale is required to be given with respect to a scheduled sale, and notice of the sale is not given, any postponement of the scheduled sale does not affect the rights of the United States under section 7425(b).
(iii)
Examples.
The provisions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A nonjudicial sale of Blackacre, belonging to A, a delinquent taxpayer, is scheduled for December 2, 1968. As no notice of lien is filed applicable to Blackacre more than 30 days before December 2, 1968, no notice of sale is given to the IRS. On December 2, 1968, the sale of Blackacre is postponed until January 15, 1969. A notice of lien with respect to Blackacre is properly filed on January 2, 1969. The sale of blackacre is held on January 15, 1969. Even though more than 30 days elapsed between the originally scheduled date of the sale (December 2, 1968) and the date of the sale (January 15, 1969), no notice of sale is required to be given to the IRS because the notice of lien was not filed more than 30 days before the date of the sale.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example 1 except that a notice of lien is filed on November 29, 1968, in accordance with section 6323. Because more than 30 days elapsed between the originally scheduled date of the sale and the date of the sale, and the notice of lien is filed (on November 29, 1968) more than 30 days before the date of the sale (January 15, 1969), notice of the sale, in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, is required to be given to the distirct director.

# Example 3.
A nonjudicial sale of Whiteacre, belonging to B, a delinquent taxpayer, is scheduled for December 2, 1968. A notice of lien applicable to Whiteacre is filed on November 12, 1968, in accordance with section 6323. As the notice of lien was not filed more than 30 days before December 2, 1968, no notice of sale is given to the IRS. On December 2, 1968, the sale of Whiteacre is postponed until December 20, 1968. The sale of Whiteacre is held on December 20, 1968. Even though more than 30 days elapsed between the date notice of lien was filed (November 12, 1968) and the date of the sale (December 20, 1968), no notice of sale is required to be given to the IRS because not more than 30 days elapsed between the date of the originally scheduled sale (December 2, 1968) and the date the sale was actually held (December 20, 1968).
(b)
Consent to sale
—(1)
In general.
Notwithstanding the notice of sale provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a nonjudicial sale of property shall discharge or divest the property of the lien and title of the United States if the IRS consents to the sale of the property free of the lien or title. Pursuant to section 7425(c)(2), where adequate protection is afforded the lien or title of the United States, the IRS may, in its discretion, consent with respect to the sale of property in appropriate cases. Such consent shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be subject to such limitations and conditions as the IRS may require. However, the IRS may not consent to a sale of property under this section after the date of sale, as determined under § 301.7425-2(b). For provisions relating to the authority of the IRS to release a lien or discharge property subject to a tax lien, see section 6325 and the section 6325 regulations.
(2)
Application for consent.
Any person desiring the IRS's consent to sell property free of a tax lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien of the United States in the property shall submit to the IRS, at the office and address specified in the relevant IRS publications, a written application, in triplicate, declaring that it is made under penalties of perjury, and requesting that such consent be given. The application shall contain the information required in the case of a notice of sale, as set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and, in addition, shall contain a statement of the reasons why the consent is desired.
(c)
Sale of perishable goods
—(1)
In general.
A notice (as described in paragraph (d) of this section) of a nonjudicial sale of perishable goods (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) shall be given in writing, by registered or certified mail or delivered by personal service, at any time before the sale, to the IRS official and office specified in the relevant IRS publications, at the address specified in such publications. Under this section, a notice of sale is not effective if it is given to an office other than the office listed in the relevant publication. If a notice of a nonjudicial sale is timely given in the manner described in this paragraph, the nonjudicial sale shall discharge or divest the tax lien, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien, of the United States in the property. The provisions of sections 7502 (relating to timely mailing treated as timely filing) and 7503 (relating to time for performance of acts where the last day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday) apply in the case of notices required to be made under this paragraph. The seller of the perishable goods shall hold the proceeds (exclusive of costs) of the sale as a fund, for not less than 30 days after the date of the sale, subject to the liens and claims of the United States, in the same manner and with the same priority as the liens and claims of the United States had with respect to the property sold. If the seller fails to hold the proceeds of the sale in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph and if the IRS asserts a claim to the proceeds within 30 days after the date of sale, the seller shall be personally liable to the United States for an amount equal to the value of the interest of the United States in the fund. However, even if the proceeds of the sale are not so held by
the seller, but all the other provisions of this paragraph are satisfied, the buyer of the property at the sale takes the property free of the liens and claims of the United States. In the event of a postponement of the scheduled sale of perishable goods, the seller is not required to notify the IRS of the postponement. For provisions relating to the authority of the IRS to release a lien or discharge property subject to a tax lien, see section 6325 and the regulations.
(2)
Definition of perishable goods.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term “perishable goods” means any tangible personal property which, in the reasonable view of the person selling the property, is liable to perish or become greatly reduced in price or value by keeping, or cannot be kept without great expense.
(d)
Content of notice of sale
—(1)
In general.
With respect to a notice of sale described in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the notice will be considered adequate if it contains the information described in paragraph (d)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.
(i) The name and address of the person submitting the notice of sale;
(ii) A copy of each notice of Federal Tax Lien (Form 668) affecting the property to be sold, or the following information as shown on each such Notice of Federal Tax Lien—
(A) The IRS office named thereon,
(B) The name and address of the taxpayer, and
(C) The date and place of filing of the notice;
(iii) With respect to the property to be sold, the following information—
(A) A detailed description, including location, of the property affected by the notice (in the case of real property, the street address, city, and State and the legal description contained in the title or deed to the property and, if available, a copy of the abstract of title),
(B) The date, time, place, and terms of the proposed sale of the property, and
(C) In the case of a sale of perishable property described in paragraph (c) of this section, a statement of the reasons why the property is believed to be perishable; and
(iv) The approximate amount of the principal obligation, including interest, secured by the lien sought to be enforced and a description of the other expenses (such as legal expenses, selling costs, etc.) which may be charged against the sale proceeds.
(2)
Inadequate notice.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a notice of sale described in paragraph (a) of this section that does not contain the information described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be considered inadequate by the IRS. If the IRS determines that the notice is inadequate, the IRS will give written notification of the items of information which are inadequate to the person who submitted the notice. A notice of sale that does not contain the name and address of the person submitting such notice shall be considered to be inadequate for all purposes without notification of any specific inadequacy. In any case where a notice of sale does not contain the information required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to a Notice of Federal Tax Lien, the IRS may give written notification of such omission without specification of any other inadequacy and such notice of sale shall be considered inadequate for all purposes. In the event the IRS gives notification that the notice of sale is inadequate, a notice complying with the provisions of this section (including the requirement that the notice be given not less than 25 days prior to the sale in the case of a notice described in paragraph (a) of this section) must be given. However, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in such a case the IRS may, in its discretion, consent to the sale of the property free of the lien or title of the United States even though notice of the sale is given less than 25 days prior to the sale. In any case where the person who submitted a timely notice, which indicates his name and address, does not receive more than 5 days prior to the date of sale written notification from the IRS that the notice is inadequate, the notice shall be considered adequate for purposes of this section.
(3)
Acknowledgment of notice.
If a notice of sale described in paragraph (a)
or (c) of this section is submitted in duplicate to the IRS with a written request that receipt of the notice be acknowledged and returned to the person giving the notice, this request will be honored by the IRS. The acknowledgment by the IRS will indicate the date and time of the receipt of the notice.
(4)
Disclosure of adequacy of notice.
The IRS is authorized to disclose, to any person who has a proper interest, whether an adequate notice of sale was given under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Any person desiring this information should submit to the IRS a written request that clearly describes the property sold or to be sold, identifies the applicable notice of lien, gives the reasons for requesting the information, and states the name and address of the person making the request. The request should be submitted to the IRS official, office and address specified in IRS Publication 4235, “Technical Services (Advisory) Group Addresses,” or any successor publication. The relevant IRS publications may be downloaded from the IRS Internet site at
http://www.irs.gov.
(e)
Effective/applicability date.
These regulations are effective on July 8, 2008.
[T.D. 7430, 41 FR 35180, Aug. 20, 1976, as amended by T.D. 9344, 72 FR 39739, July 20, 2007; T.D. 9410, 73 FR 38916, July 8, 2008]
§ 301.7425-4
Discharge of liens; redemption by United States.
(a)
Right to redeem
—(1)
In general.
In the case of a nonjudicial sale of real property to satisfy a lien prior to the tax lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien, the district director may redeem the property within the redemption period (as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section). The right of redemption of the United States exists under section 7425(d) even though the district director has consented to the sale under section 7425(c)(2) and § 301.7425-3(b). For purposes of this section, the term “nonjudicial sale” shall have the same meaning as used in paragraph (a) of § 301.7425-2.
(2)
Redemption period.
For purposes of this section, the redemption period shall be—
(i) The period beginning with the date of the sale (as determined under paragraph (b) of § 301.7425-2) and ending with the 120th day after such date, or
(ii) The period for redemption of real property allowable with respect to other secured creditors, under the local law of the place where the real property is located, whichever expires later. Whichever period is applicable, section 7425 and this section shall govern the amount to be paid and the procedure to be followed.
(3)
Limitations.
In the event a sale does not ultimately discharge the property from the tax lien (whether by reason of local law or the provisions of section 7425(b)), the provisions of this section do not apply because the tax lien will continue to attach to the property after the sale. In a case in which the Internal Revenue Service is not entitled to a notice of sale under section 7425(b) and § 301.7425-3, the United States does not have a right of redemption under section 7425(d). However, in such a case, if a tax lien has attached to the property at the time of sale, the United States has the same right of redemption, if any, which is afforded similar creditors under the local law of the place in which the property is situated.
(b)
Amount to be paid
—(1)
In general.
In any case in which a district director exercises the right to redeem real property under section 7425(d), the amount to be paid is the sum of the following amounts—
(i) The actual amount paid for the property (as determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section) being redeemed (which, in the case of a purchaser who is the holder of the lien being foreclosed, shall include the amount of the obligation secured by such lien to the extent legally satisfied by reason of the sale);
(ii) Interest on the amount paid (described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) at the sale by the purchaser of the real property computed at the rate of 6 percent per annum for the period from the date of the sale (as determined under paragraph (b) of § 301.7425-2) to the date of redemption;
(iii) The amount, if any, equal to the excess of (A) the expenses necessarily incurred to maintain such property (as
determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section) by the purchaser (and his successor in interest, if any) over (B) the income from such property realized by the purchaser (and his successor in interest, if any) plus a reasonable rental value of such property (to the extent the property is used by or with the consent of the purchaser or his successor in interest or is rented at less than its reasonable rental value); and
(iv) With respect to a redemption made after December 31, 1976, the amounts, if any, of a payment made by the purchaser or his successor in interest after the foreclosure sale to a holder of a senior lien (to the extent provided under paragraph (b)(4) of this section).
(2)
Actual amount paid.
(i) The actual amount paid for property by a purchaser, other than holder of the lien being foreclosed, is the amount paid by him at the sale. For purposes of this subdivision, the amount paid by the purchaser at the sale includes deferred payments upon the bid price. The actual amount paid does not include costs and expenses incurred prior to the foreclosure sale by the purchaser except to the extent such expenses are included in the amount bid and paid for the property. For example, the actual amount paid does not normally include the expenses of the purchaser such as title searches, professional fees, or interest on debt incurred to obtain funds to purchase the property.
(ii) In the case of a purchaser who is the holder of the lien being foreclosed, the actual amount paid is the sum of (A) the amount of the obligation secured by such lien to the extent legally satisfied by reason of the sale and (B) any additional amount bid and paid at the sale. For purposes of this section, a purchaser who acquires title as a result of a nonjudicial foreclosure sale is treated as the holder of the lien being foreclosed if a lien (or any interest reserved, created, or conveyed as security for the payment of a debt or fulfillment of other obligation) held by him is partially or fully satisfied by reason of the foreclosure sale. For example, a person whose title is derived from a tax deed issued under local law shall be treated as a purchaser who is the holder of the lien foreclosed in a case where a tax certificate, evidencing a lien on the property arising from the payment of property taxes, ripens into title. The amount paid by a purchaser at the sale includes deferred payments upon any portion of the bid price which is in excess of the amount of the lien being foreclosed. The actual amount paid does not include costs and expenses incurred prior to the foreclosure sale by the purchaser except to the extent such expenses are included in the amount of the lien being foreclosed which is legally satisfied by reason of the sale or in the amount bid and paid at the sale. Where the lien being foreclosed attaches to other property not subject to the foreclosure sale, the amount legally satisfied by reason of the sale does not include the amount of such lien that attaches to the other property. However, for purposes of the preceding sentence, the amount of the lien that attaches to the other property shall be considered to be equal to the amount by which the value of the other property exceeds the amount of any other senior lien on that property. Where, after the sale, the holder of the lien being foreclosed has the right to the unpaid balance of the amount due him, the amount legally satisfied by reason of the sale does not include the amount of such lien to the extent a deficiency judgment may be obtained therefor. However, for purposes of the preceding sentence, an amount, with respect to which the holder of the lien being foreclosed would otherwise have a right to a deficiency judgment, shall be considered to be legally satisfied by reason of the foreclosure sale to the extent that the holder has waived his right to a deficiency judgment prior to the foreclosure sale. For this purpose, the waiver must be in writing and legally binding upon the foreclosing lienholder as of the time the sale is concluded. If, prior to the foreclosure, payments have been made by the foreclosing lienholder to a holder of a superior lien, the payments are included in the actual amount paid to the extent they give rise to an interest which is legally satisfied by reason of the foreclosure sale.
(3)
Excess expenses incurred by purchaser.
(i) Expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the property
after the foreclosure sale and before redemption by the United States are taken into account in determining if there are excess expenses payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. Expenses incurred by the purchaser prior to the foreclosure sale are not considered under this subparagraph. (See paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section for circumstances under which such expenses may be included in the amount to be paid.) Expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the property include, for example, rental agent commissions, repair and maintenance expenses, utilities expenses, legal fees incurred after the foreclosure sale and prior to redemption in defending the title acquired through the foreclosure sale, and a proportionate amount of casualty insurance premiums and ad valorem taxes. Improvements made to the property are not considered as an expense unless the amounts incurred for such improvements are necessarily incurred to maintain the property.
(ii) At any time prior to the expiration of the redemption period applicable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the district director may, by certified or registered mail or hand delivery, request a written itemized statement of the amount claimed by the purchaser or his successor in interest to be payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. Unless the purchaser or his successor in interest furnishes the written itemized statement within 15 days after the request is made by the district director, it shall be presumed that no amount is payable for expenses in excess of income and the Internal Revenue Service shall tender only the amount otherwise payable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If a purchaser or his or her successor in interest has failed to furnish the written itemized statement within 15 days after the request therefor is made by the district director, or there is a disagreement as to the amount properly payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, or if there were additional excess expenses that were not claimed in the original itemized statement, the purchaser or his or her successor in interest may submit a written itemized statement to the district director within 30 days after the date of redemption. If the purchaser or his or her successor in interest fails to timely submit such a written itemized statement, no amount shall be payable for expenses in excess of income.
(4)
Payments made by purchaser or his successor in interest to a senior lienor.
(i) The amount to be paid upon a redemption by the United States made after December 31, 1976, shall include the amount of a payment made by the purchaser or his successor in interest to a holder of a senior lien to the extent a request for the reimbursement thereof (made in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section) is approved as provided under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section. This paragraph applies only to a payment made after the foreclosure sale and before the redemption to a holder of a lien that was, immediately prior to the foreclosure sale, superior to the lien foreclosed. A payment of principal or interest to a senior lienor shall be taken into account. Generally, the portion, if any, of a payment which is to be held in escrow for the payment of an expense, such as hazard insurance or real property taxes, is not considered under this paragraph. However, a payment by the escrow agent of a real property tax or special assessment lien, which was senior to the lien foreclosed, shall be considered to be a payment made by the purchaser or his successor in interest for purposes of this paragraph. With respect to real property taxes assessed after the foreclosure sale, see paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, relating to excess expenses incurred by the purchaser.
(ii) Before the expiration of the redemption period applicable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the district director shall, in any case where a redemption is contemplated, send notice to the purchaser (or his successor in interest of record) by certified or registered mail or hand delivery of his right under this subparagraph to request reimbursement (payable in the event the right to redeem under section 7425(d) is exercised) for a payment made to a senior lienor. No later than 15 days after the notice from the district director is sent, the request for
reimbursement shall be mailed or delivered to the office specified in such notice and shall consist of—
(A) A written itemized statement, signed by the claimant, of the amount claimed with respect to a payment made to a senior lienor, together with the supporting evidence requested in the notice from the district director, and
(B) A waiver or other document that will be effective upon redemption by the United States to discharge the property from, or transfer to the United States, any interest in or lien on the property that may arise under local law with respect to the payment made to a senior lienor.
Upon a showing of reasonable cause, a district director may, in his discretion and at any time before the expiration of the applicable period for redemption, grant an extension for a reasonable period of time to submit, amend, or supplement a request for reimbursement. Unless a request for reimbursement is timely submitted (determined with regard to any extension of time granted), no amount shall be payable to the purchaser or his successor in interest on account of a payment made to a senior lienor if the right to redeem under section 7425(d) is exercised. A waiver or other document submitted pursuant to this subdivision shall be treated as effective only to the extent of the amount included in the redemption price under this paragraph. If the right to redeem is not exercised or a request for reimbursement is withdrawn, the district director shall, by certified or registered mail or hand delivery, return to the purchaser or his successor any waiver or other document submitted pursuant to this subdivision as soon as is practicable.
(iii) A request for reimbursement submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall be considered to be approved for the total amount claimed by the purchaser, and payable in the event the right to redeem is exercised, unless the district director sends notice to the claimant, by certified or registered mail or hand delivery, of the denial of the amount claimed within 30 days after receipt of the request or 15 days before expiration of the applicable period for redemption, whichever is later. The notification of denial shall state the grounds for denial. If such notice of denial is given, the request for reimbursement for a payment made to a senior lienor shall be treated as having been withdrawn by the purchaser or his successor and the Internal Revenue Service shall tender only the amount otherwise payable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If a request for reimbursement is treated as having been withdrawn under the preceding sentence, payment for amounts described in this subparagraph may, in the discretion of the district director, be made after the redemption upon the resolution of the disagreement as to the amount properly payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
(5)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, a delinquent taxpayer, owns Blackacre located in State X upon which B holds a mortgage. After the mortgage is properly recorded, a notice of tax lien is filed under section 6323(f) which is applicable to Blackacre. Subsequently, A defaults on the mortgage and B forecloses on the mortgage which has an outstanding obligation in the amount of $100,000. At the foreclosure sale, B bids $50,000 and obtains title to Blackacre as a result of the sale. At the time of the foreclosure sale, Blackacre has a fair market value of $75,000. Under the laws of State X, the mortgage obligation is fully satisfied by operation of the foreclosure sale per se and the mortgagee cannot obtain a deficiency judgment. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the district director must pay $100,000 in order to redeem Blackacre.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example 1 except that under the laws of State X, the amount bid is the amount of the obligation legally satisfied as a result of the foreclosure sale, and in the case in which the amount of the obligation exceeds the amount bid, the mortgagee has the right to a judgment for the deficiency computed as the difference between the amount of the obligation and the amount bid. B does not waive, prior to the foreclosure sale, his right to a deficiency judgment. In such a case, the district director must, under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, pay $50,000 in order to redeem Blackacre, whether or not B seeks a judgment for the deficiency.

# Example 3.
C, a delinquent taxpayer, owns Greenacre located in State Y upon which D holds a first mortgage and E holds a second mortgage. After the mortgages are properly recorded, a notice of tax lien is filed under
section 6323(f) which is applicable to Greenacre. Subsequently, C defaults on both mortgages and E pays $5,000 to D, which is the portion of D's obligation which is in default. The second mortgage held by E is an outstanding obligation in the amount of $100,000. Under the laws of State Y, E may treat the amount paid to D as an addition to his second mortgage upon foreclosure by him. E forecloses upon the security interest held by him. At the foreclosure sale, E bids $50,000 and obtains title to Greenacre subject to D's mortgage as a result of the foreclosure sale. Under the laws of State Y, the mortgage obligation legally satisfied is the amount bid and E has the right to a judgment for a deficiency in the amount of $55,000 ($100,000 plus $5,000 less $50,000). In such a case, the district director must, under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, pay $50,000 in order to redeem Greenacre, whether or not E seeks a judgment for the deficiency.

# Example 4.
The law of State Z contains a procedure which permits a county to collect a delinquent tax assessment with respect to real property by the means of a “tax sale” of the property. Pursuant to this procedure, a public auction is conducted on January 15, 1970, to collect the delinquent property taxes assessed against Whiteacre, which is owned by F. At the auction, a bid of $1,000 (representing the tax, costs, and interest due at the time of the auction) is made by G. Subsequently, G pays the amount bid to the county and obtains a tax certificate with respect to Whiteacre. Under this tax sale procedure, the obtaining of the tax certificate does not directly result in the divestment of either F's title or any junior liens on Whiteacre. On January 15, 1973, the period under this tax sale procedure during which F could have redeemed Whiteacre expires. Further, more than 30 days before January 15, 1973, a notice of tax lien affecting Whiteacre is filed under section 6323(f) with respect to F's delinquent Federal income taxes. Under the state tax sale procedure, the amount which would be required to be paid by F to G on January 15, 1973, to redeem Whiteacre is $1,350 (the $1,000 amount bid, interest of $300, and costs of $50). However, Whiteacre is not redeemed by F under the state procedure and, on January 16, 1973, G obtains a tax deed to Whiteacre. Under the law of State Z, the issuance of the tax deed results in the divestment of F's title and junior liens on Whiteacre. Thus, under § 301.7425-2(b), the date of sale is January 16, 1973, for purposes of section 7425(b). The amount legally satisfied by reason of the sale is the amount G is entitled to receive, immediately prior to the expiration of the period for redemption under the law of State Z, if Whiteacre were redeemed at such time. Thus, the district director must, under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, pay $1,350 in order to redeem Whiteacre.
(c)
Certificate of redemption
—(1)
In general.
If a district director exercise the right of redemption of the United States described in paragraph (a) of this section, he shall apply to the officer designated by local law, if any, for the documents necessary to evidence the fact of redemption and to record title to the redeemed property in the name of the United States. If no such officer has been designated by local law or if the officer designated by local law fails to issue the necessary documents, the district director is authorized to issue a certificate of redemption for the property redeemed by the United States.
(2)
Filing.
The district director shall, without delay, cause either the documents issued by the local officer or the certificate of redemption executed by the district director to be filed with the local office where certificates of redemption are generally filed. If a certificate of redemption is issued by the district director and if the State in which the real property redeemed by the United States is situated has no office with which certificates of redemption may be filed, the district director shall file the certificate of redemption in the office of the clerk of the United States district court for the judicial district in which the redeemed property is situated.
(3)
Effect of certificate of redemption.
A certificate of redemption executed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the regularity of the redemption. When a certificate of redemption is recorded, it shall transfer to the United States all the rights, title, and interest in and to the redeemed property acquired by the person, from whom the district director redeemed the property, by virtue of the sale of the property. Therefore, if under local law the purchaser takes title free of liens junior to the lien of the foreclosing lienholder, the United States takes title free of such junior liens upon redemption of the property. If a certificate of redemption has been erroneously prepared and filed because the redemption was not effective, the district director shall issue a document
revoking such certificate of redemption and such document shall be conclusively binding upon the United States against a purchaser of the property or a holder of a lien upon the property.
(4)
Application for release of right of redemption.
Upon application of a party with a proper interest in the real property sold in a nonjudicial sale described in section 7425(b) and § 301.7425-2 which real property is subject to the right of redemption of the United States described in this section, the district director may, in his discretion, release the right of redemption with respect to the property. The application for the release shall be submitted in writing to a district director and shall contain such information as the district director may require. If the district director determines that the right of redemption of the United States is without value, no amount shall be required to be paid with respect to the release of the right of redemption.
[T.D. 7430, 41 FR 35181, Aug. 20, 1976, as amended by T.D. 8596, 60 FR 28720, June 2, 1995]
§ 301.7426-1
Civil actions by persons other than taxpayers.
(a)
Actions permitted
—(1)
Wrongful levy
—(i)
In general.
If a levy has been made on property or property has been sold pursuant to a levy, any person (other than the person against whom is assessed the tax out of which such levy arose) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States based upon such person's claim—
(A) That such person has an interest in, or lien on, such property which is senior to the interest of the United States; and
(B) That such property was wrongfully levied upon.
(ii)
Debt owed by another Federal agency.
Section 7426 and this paragraph (a) apply when a levy is made by the Internal Revenue Service on a debt owed to a taxpayer by another Federal agency. By contrast, section 7426 and this paragraph (a) do not apply if the Internal Revenue Service requests payment from another Federal agency pursuant to a request for setoff.
(2)
Surplus proceeds.
If property has been sold pursuant to levy, any person (other than the person against whom is assessed the tax out of which such levy arose) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States based upon such person's claim that he—
(i) Has an interest in or lien on such property junior to that of the United States; and
(ii) Is entitled to the surplus proceeds of such sale.
(3)
Substituted sale proceeds.
Any person who claims to be legally entitled to all or any part of the amount which is held as a fund from the sale of property pursuant to an agreement described in section 6325(b)(3) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States to obtain the relief provided by section 7426 (b)(4). It is not necessary that the claimant be a party to the agreement which provides for the substitution of the sale proceeds for the property subject to the lien.
(4)
Substitution of value.
A person who obtains a certificate of discharge under section 6325(b)(4) with respect to any property may, within 120 days after the day on which the certificate is issued, bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States for a determination of whether the value of the interest of the United States (if any) in such property is less than the value determined by the appropriate official. A civil action under this provision shall be the exclusive judicial remedy for a person other than the taxpayer who obtains a certificate of discharge for a filed notice of Federal tax lien.
(b)
Adjudication
—(1)
Wrongful levy.
If the court determines that property has been wrongfully levied upon, the court may—
(i) Grant an injunction to prohibit the enforcement of such levy or to prohibit a sale of such property if such sale would irreparably injure rights in the property which are superior to the rights of the United States in such property; or
(ii) Order the return of specific property if the United States is in possession of such property; or
(iii) Grant a judgment for the amount of money levied upon; or
(iv) Grant a judgment for an amount not exceeding the amount received by the United States from the sale of such property (which, in the case of property declared purchased by the United States at a sale, shall be the greater of the minimum amount determined pursuant to section 6335(e) or the amount received by the United States from the resale of such property).
For purposes of this paragraph, a levy is wrongful against a person (other than the taxpayer against whom the assessment giving rise to the levy is made), if (
a
) the levy is upon property exempt from levy under section 6334, or (
b
) the levy is upon property in which the taxpayer had no interest at the time the lien arose or thereafter, or (
c
) the levy is upon property with respect to which such person is a purchaser against whom the lien is invalid under section 6323 or 6324 (a)(2) or (b), or (
d
) the levy or sale pursuant to levy will or does effectively destroy or otherwise irreparably injure such person's interest in the property which is senior to the Federal tax lien. A levy may be wrongful against a holder of a senior lien upon the taxpayer's property under certain circumstances although legal rights to enforce his interest survive the levy procedure. For example, the levy may be wrongful against such a person if the property is an obligation which is collected pursuant to the levy rather than sold and nothing thereafter remains for the senior lienholder, or the property levied upon is of such a nature that when it is sold at a public sale the property subject to the senior lien is not available for the senior lienholder as a realistic source for the enforcement of his interest. Some of the factors which should be taken into account in determining whether property remains or will remain a realistic source from which the senior lienholder may realize collection are: (
1
) The nature of the property, (
2
) the number of purchasers, (
3
) the value of each unit sold or to be sold, (
4
) whether, as a direct result of the distraint sale, the costs of realizing collection from the security have or will be so substantially increased as to render the security substantially valueless as a source of collection, and (
5
) whether the property subject to the distraint sale constitutes substantially all of the property available as security for the payment of the indebtedness to the senior lienholder.
(2)
Example.
The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
On April 10, 1972, A makes a $10,000 loan to B which is partially secured by a $5,000 obligation owed to B by C. Under local law, A's security interest in the obligation owed to B by C is protected against a subsequent judgment lien arising out of an unsecured obligation. Thus, under section 6323(h)(1), A's security interest exists as of April 10, 1972, for purposes of determining priorities against a tax lien under section 6323. On April 17, 1972, an assessment of $6,000 is made against B with respect to his delinquent Federal tax liability. Thereafter, notice of lien is filed pursuant to section 6323(f) with respect to B's delinquent tax liability. On July 10, 1972, a notice of levy is served upon C to reach the amount owed by him to B. C pays over the $5,000 obligation in satisfaction of the levy and, under local law, the obligation is discharged as to A. Because the levy effectively destroyed A's senior security interest in the obligation owed to B by C, the levy is wrongful as to A for purposes of section 7426. Under these circumstances, the levy is wrongful with respect to A even if, under local law. A may have a cause of action in contract against B for the $10,000 loan or may have a cause of action in tort against C for the amount of the $5,000 payment which defeated A's security interest in the obligation owed by C to B.
(3)
Surplus proceeds.
If the court determines that the interest or lien of any party to an action under section 7426 was transferred to the proceeds of a sale of the property, the court may grant a judgment in an amount equal to all or any part of the amount of the surplus proceeds of such sale. The term “surplus proceeds” means those proceeds realized on a sale of property remaining after application of the provisions of section 6342(a).
(4)
Substituted sale proceeds.
If the court determines that a party has an interest in or lien on the amount held as a fund pursuant to an agreement described in section 6325(b)(3), the court may grant a judgment in an amount equal to all or any part of the amount of such fund.
(5)
Substitution of value.
If the court determines that the determination by the appropriate official of the value of the interest of the United States in the property exceeds the actual value of such interest, the court may grant a judgment ordering a refund of the amount deposited, or a release of the bond, to the extent that the aggregate of those amounts exceeds the value as determined by the court.
(c)
Effective date.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section is effective as of December 23, 1993.
(d) Paragraphs (a)(4) and (b)(5) of this section apply to any request for a certificate of discharge made after January 31, 2008.
[T.D. 7305, 39 FR 9951, Mar. 15, 1974, as amended by T.D. 8541, 59 FR 26601, May 23, 1994; 73 FR 5744, Jan. 31, 2008]
§ 301.7426-2
Recovery of damages in certain cases.
(a)
In general.
In addition to remedies related to wrongful levy set forth in § 301.7426-1(b), if a district court of the United States finds in any action brought under section 7426 that any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service recklessly or intentionally, or by reason of negligence, disregarded any provision of this title, the United States shall be liable to the plaintiff for damages. The plaintiff has a duty to mitigate damages. The total amount of damages recoverable under this section is the lesser of $1,000,000 ($100,000 in the case of negligence), or the sum of—
(1) Actual, direct economic damages as defined in § 301.7433-1(b) sustained as a proximate result of the reckless, intentional, or negligent actions of the officer or employee, reduced by the amount of any damages awarded under § 301.7426-1(b); and
(2) Costs of the action as defined in § 301.7433-1(c).
(b)
Administrative remedies must be exhausted.
The court may not award a judgment for damages under paragraph (a) of this section unless the court determines that the plaintiff has filed an administrative claim pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, and has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
No request for damages in a district court of the United States prior to filing an administrative claim.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, no request for damages under paragraph (a) of this section shall be maintained in any district court of the United States before the earlier of the following dates—
(i) The date the decision is rendered on a claim filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; or
(ii) The date that is six months after the date an administrative claim is filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) If an administrative claim is filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section during the last six months of the period of limitations described in paragraph (f) of this section, the claimant may file an action in a district court of the United States any time after the administrative claim is filed and before the expiration of the period of limitations.
(d)
Procedures for an administrative claim
—(1)
Manner.
An administrative claim for the lesser of $1,000,000 ($100,000 in the case of negligence) or actual, direct economic damages as defined in § 301.7433-1(b) shall be sent in writing to the Area Director, Attn: Compliance Technical Support Manager of the area in which the taxpayer currently resides.
(2)
Form.
The administrative claim shall include—
(i) The name, taxpayer identification number, current address and current home and work telephone numbers (indicating any convenient times to be contacted) of the person making the claim;
(ii) The grounds, in reasonable detail, for the claim (include copies of any available substantiating documentation or correspondence with the Internal Revenue Service);
(iii) A description of the damages incurred by the claimant filing the claim (include copies of any available substantiating documentation or evidence);
(iv) The dollar amount of the claim, including any damages that have not yet been incurred but which are reasonably foreseeable (include copies of
any available substantiating documentation or evidence); and
(v) The signature of the claimant or duly authorized representative.
(3)
Duly authorized representative.
For purposes of this paragraph (d), a duly authorized representative is any attorney, certified public accountant, enrolled actuary, or any other person permitted to represent the claimant before the Internal Revenue Service who is not disbarred or suspended from practice before the Internal Revenue Service and who has a written power of attorney executed to the claimant.
(e)
No liability for damages for any sum in excess of the dollar amount sought in the administrative claim. See
§ 301.7433-1(f).
(f)
Period of limitations
—(1)
Time for filing.
A civil action under paragraph (a) of this section must be brought in a district court of the United States within two years after the date the cause of action accrues.
(2)
Right of action accrues.
A cause of action under paragraph (a) of this section accrues when the plaintiff has had a reasonable opportunity to discover all essential elements of a possible cause of action.
(g)
Recovery of costs under section 7430. See
§ 301.7433-1(h).
(h)
Effective date.
This section is applicable March 25, 2003.
[T.D. 9050, 68 FR 14319, Mar. 25, 2003]
§ 301.7429-1
Review of jeopardy and termination assessment and jeopardy levy procedures; information to taxpayer.
Not later than 5 days after the day on which an assessment is made under section 6851(a), 6852(a), 6861(a), or 6862, or a levy is made under section 6331(a) without complying with the notice before levy provisions of section 6331(d), the district director shall provide the taxpayer a written statement setting forth the information upon which the district director relies in authorizing such assessment or levy.
[T.D. 8453, 57 FR 58985, Dec. 14, 1992]
§ 301.7429-2
Review of jeopardy and termination assessment and jeopardy levy procedures.
(a)
Request for administrative review.
Any request for the review of a jeopardy or termination assessment or jeopardy levy provided for by section 7429(a)(2) shall be filed with the district director within 30 days after the statement described in § 301.7429-1 is given to the taxpayer. However, if no statement is given within the 5 day period described in § 301.7429-1, any request for review of the jeopardy or termination assessment or jeopardy levy shall be filed within 35 days after the date such assessment or levy is made. Such request shall be in writing, shall state fully the reasons for the request, and shall be supported by such evidence as will enable the district director to make the redetermination described in section 7429(a)(3).
(b)
Administrative review.
In determining whether the assessment is reasonable and the amount assessed is appropriate, or whether the jeopardy levy is reasonable, the district director shall take into account not only information available at the time the assessment or jeopardy levy is made but also information which subsequently becomes available.
(c)
Abatement of assessment.
For rules relating to the abatement of assessments made under sections 6851 and 6861 see §§ 301.6861-1(e), 301.6861-1(f) and 1.6851-1(d) of this chapter.
[T.D. 8453, 57 FR 58985, Dec. 14, 1992]
§ 301.7429-3
Review of jeopardy and termination assessment and jeopardy levy procedures; judicial action.
(a)
Time for bringing judicial action.
An action for judicial review described in section 7429(b) may be instituted by the taxpayer during the period beginning on the earlier of—
(1) The date the district director notifies the taxpayer of the determination described in section 7429(a)(3) and ending on the 90th day thereafter; or
(2) The 16th day after the request described in section 7429(a)(2) was made by the taxpayer and ending on the 90th day thereafter.
(b)
Extension of period for judicial review.
The United States Government may not by itself seek an extension of the 20 day period described in section 7429(b)(3), but it may join with the taxpayer in seeking such an extension.
(c)
Jurisdiction for determination.
In general, the United States district court will have exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for a determination described in section 7429(b). However, if a petition for a redetermination of a deficiency has been timely filed with the Tax Court prior to the making of an assessment or levy that is subject to the section 7429 review procedures, and one or more of the taxes and tax periods before the Tax Court as a result of the petition is also included in the written statement that was provided to the taxpayer, then the Tax Court will have jurisdiction concurrent with the district courts over any civil action for a judicial determination with respect to all the taxes and tax periods included in the written statement. In all other cases, the appropriate United States district court continues to have exclusive jurisdiction over such an action.
[T.D. 8453, 57 FR 58985, Dec. 14, 1992]
§ 301.7430-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the captions that appear in §§ 301.7430-1 through 301.7430-6.

# § 301.7430-1 Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) In general.
(b) Requirements.
(1) In general.
(2) Participates.
(3) Tax matter.
(4) Failure to agree to extension of time for assessments.
(c) Revocation of a determination that an organization is described in section 501(c)(3).
(d) Actions involving summonses, levies, liens, jeopardy and termination assessments, etc.
(e) Exception to requirement that party pursue administrative remedies.
(f) Examples.
(g) Effective date.

# § 301.7430-2 Requirements and procedures for recovery of reasonable administrative costs.
(a) Introduction.
(b) Requirements for recovery.
(1) Determination by the Internal Revenue Service.
(i) Jurisdiction.
(ii) Administrative proceeding.
(iii) Administrative proceeding date.
(iv) Reasonable administrative costs.
(v) Prevailing party.
(vi) Not unreasonably protracted.
(vii) Procedural requirements.
(2) Determination by court.
(c) Procedure for recovering reasonable administrative costs.
(1) In general.
(2) Where request must be filed.
(3) Contents of request.
(i) Statements.
(ii) Affidavit or affidavits.
(iii) Documentation and information.
(4) Form of request.
(5) Period for requesting costs from the Internal Revenue Service.
(6) Notice.
(7) Appeal to Tax Court.
(d) Unreasonable protraction of administrative proceeding.
(e) Examples.

# § 301.7430-3 Administrative proceeding and administrative proceeding date.
(a) Administrative proceeding.
(b) Collection action.
(c) Administrative proceeding date.
(1) General rule.
(2) Notice of the decision of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Appeals.
(3) Notice of deficiency.
(4) First letter of proposed deficiency that allows the taxpayer an opportunity for administrative review in the Office of Appeals.
(d) Examples.

# § 301.7430-4 Reasonable administrative costs.
(a) In general.
(b) Costs described.
(1) In general.
(2) Representative and specially qualified representative.
(i) Representative.
(ii) Specially qualified representative.
(3) Limitation on fees for a representative.
(i) In general.
(ii) Cost of living adjustment.
(iii) Special factor adjustment.
(A) In general.
(B) Special factor.
(C) Limited availability.
(D) Local availability of tax expertise.
(E) Difficulty of the issues.
(F) Example.
(c) Certain costs excluded.
(1) Costs not incurred in an administrative proceeding.
(2) Costs incurred in an administrative proceeding but not reasonable.
(i) In general.
(ii) Special rule for expert witness' fees on issue of prevailing market rates.
(3) Litigation costs.
(4) Examples.
(d) Pro bono representation.
(1) In general.
(2) Requirements.
(3) Nominal fee.
(4) Payment when representation provided for a nominal fee.
(5) Requirements.
(6) Hourly rate.
(7) Examples.

# § 301.7430-5 Prevailing party.
(a) In general.
(b) Position of the Internal Revenue Service.
(c) Examples.
(d) Substantially justified.
(1) In general.
(2) Position in courts of appeal.
(3) Examples.
(4) Included costs.
(5) Examples.
(6) Exception.
(7) Presumption.
(e) Amount in controversy.
(f) Most significant issue or set of issues presented.
(1) In general.
(2) Example.
(g) Net worth and size limitations.
(1) Individuals.
(2) Estates and trusts.
(3) Others.
(4) Special rule for charitable organizations and certain cooperatives.
(5) Special rule for TEFRA partnerships.
(6) Determining net worth.
(h) Determination of prevailing party.
(i) Examples.

# § 301.7430-6 Effective/applicability dates.

# § 301.7430-7 Qualified offers.
(a) In general.
(b) Requirements for treatment as a prevailing party based upon having made a qualified offer.
(1) In general.
(2) Liability under the last qualified offer.
(3) Liability pursuant to the judgment.
(c) Qualified offer.
(1) In general.
(2) To the United States.
(3) Specifies the offered amount.
(4) Designated at the time it is made as a qualified offer.
(5) Remains open.
(6) Last qualified offer.
(7) Qualified offer period.
(8) Interest as a contested issue.
(d) [Reserved].
(e) Examples.
(f) Effective date.

# § 301.7430-8 Administrative costs incurred in damage actions for violations of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(a) In general.
(b) Prevailing party.
(c) Administrative proceeding.
(d) Costs incurred after filing of bankruptcy petition.
(e) Time for filing claim for administrative costs.
(f) Effective date.
[T.D. 8542, 59 FR 29360, June 7, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8725, 62 FR 39118, July 22, 1997; T.D. 9756, 81 FR 10483, Mar. 1, 2016]
§ 301.7430-1
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a)
In general.
Section 7430(b)(1) provides that a court shall not award reasonable litigation costs in any civil tax proceeding under section 7430(a) unless the court determines that the prevailing party has exhausted the administrative remedies available to the party within the Internal Revenue Service. This section sets forth the circumstances in which such administrative remedies shall be deemed to have been exhausted.
(b)
Requirements
—(1)
In general.
A party has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service with respect to any tax matter for which an Appeals office conference is available under §§ 601.105 and 601.106 of this chapter (other than a tax matter described in paragraph (c) of this section) unless—
(i) The party, prior to filing a petition in the Tax Court or a civil action for refund in a court of the United States (including the Court of Federal Claims), participates, either in person or through a qualified representative described in § 601.502 of this chapter, in an Appeals office conference; or
(ii) If no Appeals office conference is granted, the party, prior to the issuance of a statutory notice in the case of a petition in the Tax Court or the issuance of a notice of disallowance in the case of a civil action for refund in a court of the United States (including the Court of Federal Claims)—
(A) Requests an Appeals office conference in accordance with §§ 601.105 and 601.106 of this chapter or any successor published guidance; and
(B) Files a written protest if a written protest is required to obtain an Appeals office conference.
(2)
Participates.
For purposes of this section, a party or qualified representative of the party described in § 601.502 of this chapter participates in an Appeals office conference if the party or qualified representative discloses to the Appeals office all relevant information regarding the party's tax matter
to the extent such information and its relevance were known or should have been known to the party or qualified representative at the time of such conference.
(3)
Tax matter.
For purposes of this section, “tax matter” means a matter in connection with the determination, collection or refund of any tax, interest, penalty, addition to tax or additional amount under the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)
Failure to agree to extension of time for assessments.
Any failure by the prevailing party to agree to an extension of the time for the assessment of any tax will not be taken into account for purposes of determining whether the prevailing party has exhausted the administrative remedies available to the party within the Internal Revenue Service.
(c)
Revocation of a determination that an organization is described in section 501(c)(3).
A party has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service with respect to a revocation of a determination that it is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) unless, prior to filing a declaratory judgment action under section 7428, the party has exhausted its administrative remedies in accordance with section 7428, and any regulations, rules, and revenue procedures thereunder.
(d)
Actions involving summonses, levies, liens, jeopardy and termination assessments, etc.
(1) A party has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service with respect to a matter other than one to which paragraph (b) or (c) of this section applies (including summonses, levies, liens, and jeopardy and termination assessments) unless, prior to filing an action in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court and the Court of Federal Claims)—
(i) The party follows all applicable Internal Revenue Service procedures for contesting the matter (including filing a written protest or claim, requesting an administrative appeal, and participating in an administrative hearing or conference); or
(ii) If there are no applicable Internal Revenue Service procedures, the party submits to the Area Director of the area having jurisdiction over the dispute a written claim for relief reciting facts and circumstances sufficient to show the nature of the relief requested and that the party is entitled to the requested relief, and the Area Director denies the claim for relief in writing or fails to act on the claim within a reasonable period after the claim is received by the Area Director.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, a
reasonable period
is—
(i) The 5-day period preceding the filing of a petition to quash an administrative summons issued under section 7609;
(ii) The 5-day period preceding the filing of a wrongful levy action in which a demand for the return of property is made;
(iii) The period expressly provided for administrative review of the party's claim by an applicable provision of the Internal Revenue Code that expressly provides for the pursuit of administrative remedies (such as the 16-day period provided under section 7429(b)(1)(B) relating to review of jeopardy assessment procedures); or
(iv) The 60-day period following receipt of the claim for relief in all other cases.
(e)
Actions involving willful violations of the automatic stay under section 362 or the discharge provisions under section 524 of the Bankruptcy Code
—(1)
Section 7433 claims.
A party has not exhausted administrative remedies within the Internal Revenue Service with respect to asserted violations of the automatic stay under section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code or the discharge provisions under section 524 of the Bankruptcy Code unless it files an administrative claim for damages or for relief from a violation of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code with the Chief, Local Insolvency Unit, for the judicial district in which the bankruptcy petition that is the basis for the asserted automatic stay or discharge violation was filed pursuant to § 301.7433-2(e) and satisfies the other conditions set forth in § 301.7433-2(d) prior to filing a petition under section 7433.
(2)
Section 362(h) claims.
A party has not exhausted administrative remedies within the Internal Revenue Service
with respect to asserted violations of the automatic stay under section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code unless it files an administrative claim for relief from a violation of section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code with the Chief, Local Insolvency Unit, for the judicial district in which the bankruptcy petition that is the basis for the asserted automatic stay violation was filed pursuant to § 301.7433-2(e) and satisfies the other conditions set forth in § 301.7433-2(d) prior to filing a petition under section 362(h) of the Bankruptcy Code.
(f)
Exception to requirement that party pursue administrative remedies.
If the conditions set forth in paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(4) of this section are satisfied, a party's administrative remedies within the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed to have been exhausted for purposes of section 7430.
(1) The Internal Revenue Service notifies the party in writing that the pursuit of administrative remedies in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section is unnecessary.
(2) In the case of a petition in the Tax Court—
(i) The party did not receive a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) prior to the issuance of the statutory notice and the failure to receive such notice was not due to actions of the party (such as a failure to supply requested information or a current mailing address to the Internal Revenue Service office or service center having jurisdiction over the tax matter); and
(ii) The party does not refuse to participate in an Appeals office conference while the case is in docketed status.
(3) In the case of a civil action for refund involving a tax matter other than a tax matter described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the party—
(i) Participates in an Appeals office conference with respect to the tax matter prior to issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to such tax matter; or
(ii) Did not receive written notification that an Appeals office conference was available prior to issuance of a notice of disallowance and the failure to receive such a notification was not due to the actions of the party (such as the failure to supply requested information or a current mailing address to the Internal Revenue Service office or service center having jurisdiction over the tax matter); or
(iii) Did not receive either written or oral notification that an Appeals office conference had been granted within six months from the date of the filing of the claim for refund and the failure to receive such notice was not due to actions of the party (such as the failure to supply requested information or a current mailing address to the Internal Revenue Service office or service center having jurisdiction over the tax matter).
(4) In the case of a civil action for refund involving a tax matter under sections 6703 or 6694—
(i) The party did not receive a notice of proposed disallowance prior to issuance of a notice of disallowance and the failure to receive such notice was not due to actions of the party (such as the failure to supply requested information or a current mailing address to the Internal Revenue Service office or service center having jurisdiction over the tax matter); or
(ii) During the six-month period following the day on which the party's claim for refund is filed, the party's claim for refund is not denied, and the Internal Revenue Service has failed to process the claim with due diligence.
(g)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer A exchanges property held for investment for similar property and claims that the gain on the exchange is not recognized under section 1031. The Internal Revenue Service conducts a field examination and determines that there has not been a like-kind exchange. No agreement is reached on the matter and a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) is sent to A. A does not file a request for an Appeals office conference. A pays the amount of the proposed deficiency and files a claim for refund. A notice of proposed disallowance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service. A does not request an Appeals office conference and, instead, files a civil action for refund in a United States District Court. A has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1
except that, after receiving the notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter), A
files a request for an Appeals office conference. No agreement is reached at the conference. A pays the amount of the proposed deficiency and files a claim for refund. A notice of proposed disallowance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service. A does not request an Appeals office conference and files a civil action for refund in a United States District Court. A has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1
except A first requests an Appeals office conference after A's receipt of the notice of proposed disallowance. A is granted an Appeals office conference and A participates in such conference. A has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 4.
Taxpayer B receives a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) after completion of a field examination. B provided to the Internal Revenue Service during the examination all relevant information under the taxpayer's control and all relevant legal arguments supporting the taxpayer's position. B properly requests an Appeals office conference. The Appeals office, to obtain an additional period of time to consider the tax matter, requests that B sign Form 872 to extend the time for an assessment of tax, but B declines. Appeals then denies the request for a conference and issues a notice of deficiency. B has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 5.
Taxpayer C receives a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) and a written statement that C need not file a written protest or request an Appeals office conference since a conference will not be granted. C files a petition in the Tax Court after receiving the statutory notice of deficiency. C's administrative remedies within the Internal Revenue Service are deemed to have been exhausted.

# Example 6.
On January 2, the Internal Revenue Service serves a summons issued under section 7609 on third-party recordkeeper D to produce records of taxpayer E. On January 5, notice of the summons is given to E. The last day on which E may file a petition in a court of the United States to quash the summons is January 25. Thereafter, E files a written claim for relief with the Internal Revenue Service office having jurisdiction over the matter together with a copy of the summons. The claim and copy are received by the Internal Revenue Service office on January 20. On January 25, E files a petition to quash the summons. E has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 7.
A notice of Federal tax lien is filed in County M on March 3, in the name of F. On April 2, F pays the entire liability thereby satisfying the lien. On May 2, F files a written claim with the Internal Revenue Service office having jurisdiction over the tax matter demanding a certificate of release of lien. Thereafter, F provides the Internal Revenue Service office with a copy of the notice of Federal tax lien and a copy of the canceled check in satisfaction of the lien, which are received by the district director on May 15. F's claim is deemed to have been filed on May 15. Accordingly, F must wait until after July 14 (60 days following the filing of the claim for relief on May 15) to commence an action, in order to have exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 8.
A revenue officer seizes an automobile to effect collection of G's liability on January 10. On January 22, H submits a written claim to the Internal Revenue Service office having jurisdiction over the tax matter claiming that H purchased the automobile from G for an adequate consideration before the tax lien against G arose, and demands immediate return of the automobile. A copy of the title certificate and H's canceled check are submitted with the claim. The claim is received by the Internal Revenue Service office on January 25. On January 30, H brings a wrongful levy action. H has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 9.
The Internal Revenue Service issues a revenue ruling which holds that ear piercing does not affect a function or structure of the body within the meaning of section 213 and therefore is not deductible. Taxpayer I deducts the costs of ear piercing and, following an examination, receives a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) disallowing the treatment of these costs. Because of the revenue ruling, I believes a conference would not aid in the resolution of the tax dispute. Accordingly, I does not request an Appeals office conference. After receiving a statutory notice of deficiency, I files a petition in the Tax Court. I has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service. The issuance of a revenue ruling covering the same fact situation but taking a contrary position does not constitute notification by the Internal Revenue Service to I that the pursuit of administrative remedies is unnecessary. Similarly, the issuance to I of a private letter ruling or technical advice does not constitute notification by the Internal Revenue Service that the pursuit of administrative remedies is unnecessary.

# Example 10.
Taxpayer J is assessed a penalty under section 6701 for aiding in the understatement of the tax liability of another person. J pays 15% of the penalty in accordance with section 6703 and files a claim for refund on June 15. J is not issued a notice of
proposed disallowance and thus cannot participate in an Appeals office conference within six months of the filing of the claim for refund. J brings an action on December 23. J has exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service.

# Example 11.
Taxpayer K receives a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter) and neither requests nor participates in an Appeals office conference. The Service then issues a statutory notice of deficiency (90-day letter). Upon receiving the statutory notice, and after filing a petition with the Tax Court, K requests an Appeals office conference. K has not exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service because the request for an Appeals office conference was made after the issuance of the statutory notice.
(h)
Effective date.
This section applies to court proceedings described in section 7430 filed in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court) after May 7, 1992.
[T.D. 8543, 59 FR 29357, June 7, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8725, 62 FR 39118, July 22, 1997; T.D. 9050, 68 FR 14319, Mar. 25, 2003; T.D. 9050, 68 FR 16351, Apr. 3, 2003; T.D. 9756, 81 FR 10484, Mar. 1, 2016]
§ 301.7430-2
Requirements and procedures for recovery of reasonable administrative costs.
(a)
Introduction.
Section 7430(a)(1) provides for the recovery, under certain circumstances, of reasonable administrative costs incurred in connection with an administrative proceeding before the Internal Revenue Service. Paragraph (b) of this section lists the requirements that a taxpayer must meet to be entitled to an award of reasonable administrative costs from the Internal Revenue Service. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the procedures that a taxpayer must follow to recover reasonable administrative costs. Paragraphs (b) and (c) apply to requests for administrative costs regarding all administrative proceedings within the Internal Revenue Service.
(b)
Requirements for recovery
—(1)
Determination by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Internal Revenue Service will grant a taxpayer's request for recovery of reasonable administrative costs incurred in connection with an administrative proceeding under section 7430 and this section only if—
(i)
Jurisdiction.
The underlying substantive issues or the issue of reasonable administrative costs are not, and have never been, before any court of the United States (including the Tax Court or United States Court of Federal Claims) with jurisdiction over those issues;
(ii)
Administrative proceeding.
The costs were incurred in connection with an administrative proceeding as defined in § 301.7430-3(a);
(iii)
Administrative proceeding date.
The costs were incurred on or after the administrative proceeding date as defined in § 301.7430-3(c);
(iv)
Reasonable administrative costs.
The costs were reasonable administrative costs as defined in § 301.7430-4;
(v)
Prevailing party.
The taxpayer is a prevailing party as defined in § 301.7430-5;
(vi)
Not unreasonably protracted.
The administrative proceeding was not unreasonably protracted by the taxpayer as discussed in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(vii)
Procedural requirements.
The taxpayer follows the procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Determination by court.
