
# Subpart B—Hearing Procedures
13.20
Submissions to a Board.
13.25
Disclosure of data and information by the participants.
13.30
Proceedings of a Board.

# Subpart C—Records of a Hearing Before a Board
13.40
Administrative record of a Board.
13.45
Examination of administrative record.
13.50
Record for administrative decision.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 551-558, 701-721; 15 U.S.C. 1451-1461; 21 U.S.C. 141-149, 321-393, 467f, 679, 821, 1034; 28 U.S.C. 2112; 42 U.S.C. 201, 262, 263b-263n, 264.

# Source:
44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 13 appear at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 13.1
Scope.
The procedures in this part apply when—
(a) The Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it is in the public interest to hold a public hearing before a Public Board of Inquiry (
Board
) with respect to any matter before FDA;
(b) Under specific sections of this chapter a matter before FDA is subject to a hearing before a Board; or
(c) Under § 12.32, a person who has a right to an opportunity for a formal evidentiary public hearing waives that opportunity and requests that a Board act as an administrative law tribunal concerning the matters involved, and the Commissioner decides to accept this request.
§ 13.5
Notice of a hearing before a Board.
If the Commissioner determines that a Board should be established to conduct a hearing on any matter, a notice of hearing will be published in the
Federal Register
setting forth the following information:
(a) If the hearing is under § 13.1 (a) or (b), all applicable information described in § 12.32(e).
(1) Any written document that is to be the subject matter of the hearing will be published as a part of the notice, or the notice will refer to it if the document has already been published in the
Federal Register
or state that the document is available from the Dockets Management Staff or an agency employee designated in the notice.
(2) For purposes of a hearing under § 13.1 (a) or (b), all participants who file a notice of participation under § 12.32(e)(6)(ii) are deemed to be parties and entitled to participate in selection of the Board under § 13.15(b).
(b) If the hearing is in lieu of a formal evidentiary hearing, as provided in § 13.1(c), all of the information described in § 12.32(e).
[44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 26375, June 18, 1982]
§ 13.10
Members of a Board.
(a) All members of a Board are to have medical, technical, scientific, or other qualifications relevant to the issues to be considered, are subject to the conflict of interest rules applicable to special Government employees, and are to be free from bias or prejudice concerning the issues involved. A member of a Board may be a full-time or part-time Federal Government employee or may serve on an FDA advisory committee but, except with the agreement of all parties, may not currently be a full-time or part-time employee of FDA or otherwise act as a special Government employee of FDA.
(b) Within 30 days of publication of the notice of hearing, the director of the center of FDA responsible for a matter before a Board, the other parties to the proceeding, and any person whose petition was granted and is the subject of the hearing, shall each submit to the Dockets Management Staff the names and full curricula vitae of five nominees for members of the Board. Nominations are to state that
the nominee is aware of the nomination, is interested in becoming a member of the Board, and appears to have no conflict of interest.
(1) Any two or more persons entitled to nominate members may agree upon a joint list of five qualified nominees.
(2) The lists of nominees must be submitted to the persons entitled to submit a list of nominees under this paragraph but not to all participants. Within 10 days of receipt of the lists of nominees, such persons may submit comments to the Dockets Management Staff on whether the nominees of the other persons meet the criteria established in paragraph (a) of this section. A person submitting comments to the Dockets Management Staff shall submit them to all persons entitled to submit a list of nominees.
(3) The lists of nominees and comments on them are to be held in confidence by the Dockets Management Staff as part of the administrative record of the proceeding and are not to be made available for public disclosure, and all persons who submit or receive them shall similarly hold them in confidence. This portion of the administrative record remains confidential but is available for judicial review in the event that it becomes relevant to any issue before a court.
(c) After reviewing the lists of nominees and any comments, the Commissioner will choose three qualified persons as members of a Board. One member will be from the lists of nominees submitted by the director of the center and by any person whose petition was granted and is the subject of the hearing. The second will be from the lists of nominees submitted by the other parties. The Commissioner may choose the third member from any source. That member is the Chairman of the Board.
(1) If the Commissioner is unable to find a qualified person with no conflict of interest from among a list of nominees or if additional information is needed, the Commissioner will request the submission of the required additional nominees or information.
(2) If a person fails to submit a list of nominees as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner may choose a qualified member without further consultation with that person.
(3) The Commissioner will announce the members of a Board by filing a memorandum in the record of the proceeding and sending a copy to all participants.
(d) Instead of using the selection method in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the director of the center, the other parties to the proceeding, and any person whose petition was granted and is the subject of the hearing, may, with the approval of the Commissioner, agree that a standing advisory committee listed in § 14.80 constitutes the Board for a particular proceeding, or that another procedure is to be used for selection of the members of the Board, or that the Board consists of a larger number of members.
(e) The members of a Board serve as consultants to the Commissioner and are special Government employees or Government employees. A Board functions as an administrative law tribunal in the proceeding and is not an advisory committee subject to the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act or part 14.
(f) The Chairman of the Board has the authority of a presiding officer set out in § 12.70.
[44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 8994, Mar. 6, 1985]
§ 13.15
Separation of functions; ex parte communications; administrative support.
(a) The proceeding of a Board are subject to the provisions of § 10.55 relating to separation of functions and ex parte communications. Representatives of the participants in any proceeding before a Board, including any members of the office of the Chief Counsel of FDA assigned to advise the center responsible for the matter, may have no contact with the members of the Board, except as participants in the proceeding, and may not participate in the deliberations of the Board.
(b) Administrative support for a Board is to be provided only by the office of the Commissioner and the office of the Chief Counsel for FDA.
[44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Subpart B—Hearing Procedures
§ 13.20
Submissions to a Board.
(a) Submissions are to be filed with the Dockets Management Staff under § 10.20.
(b) The person making a submission shall serve copies of it on each participant in the proceeding, except as provided in §§ 13.10(b)(2) and 13.45. Submissions of documentary data and information need not be sent to each participant, but any accompanying transmittal letter, summary, statement of position, certification under paragraph (d) of this section, or similar document must be.
(c) A submission must be mailed to the address shown in the notice of appearance or personally delivered.
(d) All submissions are to be accompanied by a certificate of service, or a statement that service is not required.
(e) No written submission or other portion of the administrative record may be held in confidence, except as provided in §§ 13.10(b)(2) and 13.45.
(f) A participant who believes that compliance with the requirements of this section constitutes an unreasonable financial burden may submit to the Commissioner a petition to participate in forma pauperis in the form and manner specified in § 12.82.
§ 13.25
Disclosure of data and information by the participants.
(a) Before the notice of hearing is published under § 13.5, the director of the center responsible for the matters involved in the hearing must submit to the Dockets Management Staff—
(1) The relevant portions of the existing administrative record of the proceeding. Portions of the administrative record not relevant to the issues in the hearing are not part of the administrative record;
(2) A list of all persons whose views will be presented orally or in writing at the hearing;
(3) All documents in the director's files containing factual information, whether favorable or unfavorable to the director's position, which relate to the issues involved in the hearing.
Files
means the principal files in the center in which documents relating to the issues in the hearing are ordinarily kept, e.g., the food additive master file and the food additive petition in the case of issues concerning a food additive, or the new drug application in the case of issues concerning a new drug. Internal memoranda reflecting the deliberative process, and attorney work product and material prepared specifically for use in connection with the hearing, are not required to be submitted;
(4) All other documentary information relied on; and
(5) A signed statement that, to the best of the director's knowledge and belief, the submission complies with this section.
(b) Within the time prescribed in the notice of hearing published under § 13.5, each participant shall submit to the Dockets Management Staff all information specified in paragraph (a)(2) through (5) of this section and any objections that the administrative record filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is incomplete. With respect to the information specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, participants are to exercise reasonable diligence in identifying documents in files comparable to those described in that paragraph.
(c) The submissions required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be supplemented later in the proceeding, with the approval of the Board, on a showing that the views of the persons or the material contained in the supplement was not known or reasonably available when the initial submission was made or that the relevance of the views of the persons or the material contained in the supplement could not reasonably have been foreseen.
(d) The failure to comply substantially and in good faith with this section in the case of a participant constitutes a waiver of the right to participate further in the hearing and in the case of a party constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(e) The Chairman rules on questions relating to this section. Any participant dissatisfied with a ruling may petition the Commissioner for interlocutory review.
[44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 8994, Mar. 6, 1985; 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 13.30
Proceedings of a Board.
(a) The purpose of a Board is to review medical, scientific, and technical issues fairly and expeditiously. The proceedings of a Board are conducted as a scientific inquiry rather than a legal trial.
(b) A Board may not hold its first hearing until after all participants have submitted the information required by § 13.25.
(c) The Chairman calls the first hearing of the Board. Notice of the time and location of the first hearing is to be published at least 15 days in advance and the hearing will be open to the public. All participants will have an opportunity at the first hearing to make an oral presentation of the information and views which in their opinion are pertinent to the resolution of the issues being considered by a Board. A participant's presentation may be made by more than one person. The Chairman determines the order of the presentation. Participants may not interrupt a presentation, but members of the Board may ask questions. At the conclusion of a presentation, each of the other participants may briefly comment on the presentation and may request that the Board conduct further questioning on specified matters. Members of the Board may then ask further questions. Any other participant may be permitted to ask questions if the Chairman determines that it will help resolve the issues.
(d) The hearing is informal and the rules of evidence do not apply. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views may be made or considered, but other participants may comment upon or rebut all such information and views. No participant may interrupt the presentation of another participant for any reason.
(e) Within the time specified by the Board after its first hearing, participants may submit written rebuttal information and views in accordance with § 13.20. The Chariman will then schedule a second hearing, if requested and justified by a participant. A second hearing, and any subsequent hearing, will be called only if the Chairman concludes that it is needed to fully and fairly present information that cannot otherwise adequately be considered and to properly resolve the issues. Notice of the time and location of any hearing is to be published at least 15 days in advance. The hearing is open to the public.
(f) A Board may consult with any person who it concludes may have information or views relevant to the issues.
(1) The consultation may occur only at an announced hearing of a Board. Participants have the right to suggest or, with the permission of the Chairman, ask questions of the consultant and present rebuttal information and views, as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section except that written statements may be submitted to the Board with the consent of all participants.
(2) A participant may submit a request that the Board consult with a specific person who may have information or views relevant to the issues. The request will state why the person should be consulted and why the person's views cannot be furnished to the Board by means other than having FDA arrange for the person's appearance. The Board may, in its discretion, grant or deny the request.
(g) All hearings are to be transcribed. All hearings are open to the public, except that a hearing under § 10.20(j)(3) is closed to all persons except those persons making and participating in the presentation and Federal Government executive branch employees and special Government employees. At least a majority of Board members are to be present at every hearing. The executive sessions of a Board, during which a Board deliberates on the issues, are to be closed and are not transcribed. All members of the Board shall vote on the report of the Board.
(h) All legal questions are to be referred to the Chief counsel for FDA for resolution. The Chief Counsel's advice on any matter of procedure or legal authority is to be transmitted in writing and made a part of the record or presented in open session and transcribed.
(i) At the conclusion of all public hearings the Board will announce that the record is closed to receiving information. The Board will provide an opportunity for participants to submit
written statements of their positions, with proposed findings and conclusions, and may in its discretion, provide an opportunity for participants to summarize their positions orally.
(j) The Board will prepare a decision on all issues. The decision is to include specific findings and references supporting and explaining the Board's conclusions, and a detailed statement of the reasoning on which the conclusions are based. Any member of the Board may file a separate report stating additional or dissenting views.

# Subpart C—Records of a Hearing Before a Board
§ 13.40
Administrative record of a Board.
(a) The administrative record of a hearing before a Board consists of the following:
(1) All relevant
Federal Register
notices.
(2) All written submissions under § 13.20.
(3) The transcripts of all hearings of the Board.
(4) The initial decision of the Board.
(b) The record of the administrative proceeding is closed—
(1) Relevant to receiving information and data, at the time specified in § 13.30(i); and
(2) Relevant to pleadings, at the time specified in § 13.30(i) for filing a written statement of position with proposed findings and conclusions.
(c) The Board may, in its discretion, reopen the record to receive further evidence at any time before filing an initial decision.
§ 13.45
Examination of administrative record.
(a) The availability for public examination and copying of each document which is a part of the administrative record of the hearing is governed by § 10.20(j). Each document available for public examination or copying is placed on public display in the office of the Dockets Management Staff promptly upon receipt in that office.
(b) Lists of nominees and comments submitted on them under § 13.10(b)(3) are not subject to disclosure unless they become an issue in a court proceeding.
§ 13.50
Record for administrative decision.
The administrative record of the hearing specified in § 13.40(a) constitutes the exclusive record for decision.
Pt. 14

# PART 14—PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE

# Subpart A—General Provisions.
Sec.
14.1
Scope.
14.5
Purpose of proceedings before an advisory committee.
14.7
Administrative remedies.
14.10
Applicability to Congress.
14.15
Committees working under a contract with FDA.

# Subpart B—Meeting Procedures
14.20
Notice of hearing before an advisory committee.
14.22
Meetings of an advisory committee.
14.25
Portions of advisory committee meetings.
14.27
Determination to close portions of advisory committee meetings.
14.29
Conduct of a hearing before an advisory committee.
14.30
Chairperson of an advisory committee.
14.31
Consultation by an advisory committee with other persons.
14.33
Compilation of materials for members of an advisory committee.
14.35
Written submissions to an advisory committee.
14.39
Additional rules for a particular advisory committee.

# Subpart C—Establishment of Advisory Committees
14.40
Establishment and renewal of advisory committees.
14.55
Termination of advisory committees.

# Subpart D—Records of Meetings and Hearings Before Advisory Committees
14.60
Minutes and reports of advisory committee meetings.
14.61
Transcripts of advisory committee meetings.
14.65
Public inquiries and requests for advisory committee records.
14.70
Administrative record of a public hearing before an advisory committee.
14.75
Examination of administrative record and other advisory committee records.

# Subpart E—Members of Advisory Committees
14.80
Qualifications for members of standing policy and technical advisory committees.
14.82
Nominations of voting members of standing advisory committees.
14.84
Nominations and selection of nonvoting members of standing technical advisory committees.
14.86
Rights and responsibilities of nonvoting members of advisory committees.
14.90
Ad hoc advisory committee members.
14.95
Compensation of advisory committee members.

# Subpart F—Standing Advisory Committees
14.100
List of standing advisory committees.

# Subpart G—Technical Electronic Products Radiation Safety Standards Committee
14.120
Establishment of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC).
14.122
Functions of TEPRSSC.
14.125
Procedures of TEPRSSC.
14.127
Membership of TEPRSSC.
14.130
Conduct of TEPRSSC meetings; availability of TEPRSSC records.

# Subpart H—Color Additive Advisory Committees
14.140
Establishment of a color additive advisory committee.
14.142
Functions of a color additive advisory committee.
14.145
Procedures of a color additive advisory committee.
14.147
Membership of a color additive advisory committee.
14.155
Fees and compensation pertaining to a color additive advisory committee.

# Subpart I—Advisory Committees for Human Prescription Drugs
14.160
Establishment of standing technical advisory committees for human prescription drugs.
14.171
Utilization of an advisory committee on the initiative of FDA.
14.172
Utilization of an advisory committee at the request of an interested person.
14.174
Advice and recommendations in writing.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 1451-1461; 21 U.S.C. 41-50, 141-149, 321-394, 467f, 679, 821, 1034; 28 U.S.C. 2112; 42 U.S.C. 201, 262, 263b, 264, 284m, 284m-1; Pub. L. 107-109, 115 Stat. 1419.

# Source:
44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 14 appear at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 14.1
Scope.
(a) This part governs the procedures when any of the following applies:
(1) The Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it is in the public interest for a standing or ad hoc policy or technical public advisory committee (
advisory committee
or
committee
) to hold a public hearing and to review and make recommendations on any matter before FDA and for interested persons to present information and views at an oral public hearing before the advisory committee.
(2) Under specific provisions in the FD
C Act or other sections of this chapter, a matter is subject to a hearing before an advisory committee. The specific provisions are—
(i) Section 14.120 on review of a performance standard for an electronic product by the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC);
(ii) Section 14.140 on review of the safety of color additives;
(iii) Section 14.160 on review of the safety and effectiveness of human prescription drugs;
(iv) Section 330.10 on review of the safety and effectiveness of over-the-counter drugs;
(v) [Reserved]
(vi) Part 860, on classification of devices;
(vii) Section 514(b)(5) of the FD
C Act on establishment, amendment, or revocation of a device performance standard;
(viii) Section 515 of the FD
C Act on review of device premarket approval applications and product development protocols; and
(ix) Section 520(f) of the FD
C Act on review of device good manufacturing practice regulations.
(3) A person who has a right to an opportunity for a formal evidentiary public hearing under part 12 waives that opportunity and instead under § 12.32 requests a hearing before an advisory committee, and the Commissioner, as a matter of discretion, accepts the request.
(b) In determining whether a group is a
public advisory committee
as defined in § 10.3(a) and thus subject to this part and to the Federal advisory Committee Act, the following guidelines will be used:
(1) An advisory committee may be a standing advisory committee or an ad hoc advisory committee. All standing advisory committees are listed in § 14.100.
(2) An advisory committee may be a policy advisory committee or a technical advisory committee. A policy advisory committee advises on broad and general matters. A technical advisory committee advises on specific technical or scientific issues, which may relate to regulatory decisions before FDA.
(3) An advisory committee includes any of its subgroups when the subgroup is working on behalf of the committee. Section 14.40(d) describes when a subgroup will be established as an advisory committee separate from the parent committee.
(4) A committee composed entirely of full-time Federal Government employees is not an advisory committee.
(5) An advisory committee ordinarily has a fixed membership, a defined purpose of providing advice to the agency on a particular subject, regular or periodic meetings, and an organizational structure, for example, a Chairperson and staff, and serves as a source of independent expertise and advice rather than as a representative of or advocate for any particular interest. The following groups are not advisory committees:
(i) A group of persons convened on an ad hoc basis to discuss a matter of current interest to FDA, but which has no continuing function or organization and does not involve substantial special preparation.
(ii) A group of two or more FDA consultants meeting with the agency on an ad hoc basis.
(iii) A group of experts who are employed by a private company or a trade association which has been requested by FDA to provide its views on a regulatory matter pending before FDA.
(iv) A consulting firm hired by FDA to provide advice regarding a matter.
(6) An advisory committee that is utilized by FDA is subject to this subpart even though it was not established by FDA. In general, a committee is
utilized
when FDA requests advice or recommendations from the committee on a specific matter in order to obtain an independent review and consideration of the matter, and not when FDA is merely seeking the comments of all interested persons or of persons who have a specific interest in the matter.
(i) A committee formed by an independent scientific or technical organization is utilized if FDA requests advice of that committee rather than of the parent organization, or if the circumstances show that the advice given is that of the committee and not of the parent organization. A committee formed by an independent scientific or technical organization is not utilized if FDA requests advice of the organization rather than of a committee and if the recommendations of any committee formed in response to the request are subject to substantial independent policy and factual review by the governing body of the parent organization.
(ii) A committee is not utilized by FDA if it provides only information, as contrasted with advice or opinions or recommendations.
(iii) FDA is charged with seeking out the views of all segments of the public on enforcement of the laws administered by the Commissioner. The fact that a group of individuals or a committee meets regularly with FDA, for example, a monthly meeting with consumer representatives, does not make that group or committee an advisory committee. Thus, this subpart does not apply to routine meetings, discussions, and other dealings, including exchanges of views, between FDA and any committee representing or advocating the particular interests of consumers, industry, professional organizations, or others.
(7) The inclusion of one or two FDA consultants who are special Government employees on an internal FDA committee does not make that committee an advisory committee.
(8) A Public Board of Inquiry established under part 13, or other similar group convened by agreement between
the parties to a regulatory proceeding pending before FDA to review and prepare an initial decision on the issues in lieu of a formal evidentiary public hearing, is acting as an administrative law tribunal and is not an advisory committee.
(9) An open public conference or meeting conducted under § 10.65(b) is not an advisory committee meeting.
(10) An FDA committee that primarily has operational responsibility rather than that of providing advice and recommendations is not an advisory committee, for example, the Research Involving Human Subjects Committee (RIHSC).
(c) This part applies only when a committee convenes to conduct committee business. Site visits, social gatherings, informal discussions by telephone or during meals or while traveling or at other professional functions, or other similar activities do not constitute a meeting.
(d) An advisory committee that is utilized but not established by FDA is subject to this part only to the extent of such utilization, and not concerning any other activities of such committee.
(e) Any conference or meeting between an employee of FDA and a committee or group which is not an advisory committee shall be subject to § 10.65 or other provisions specifically applicable to the committee or group, for example, part 13 for a Public Board of Inquiry.
(f) This part applies to all FDA advisory committees, except to the extent that specific statutes require otherwise for a particular committee, for example, TEPRSSC and advisory committees established under the Medical Device Amendments of 1976.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013; 81 FR 45409, July 14, 2016]
§ 14.5
Purpose of proceedings before an advisory committee.
(a) An advisory committee is utilized to conduct public hearings on matters of importance that come before FDA, to review the issues involved, and to provide advice and recommendations to the Commissioner.
(b) The Commissioner has sole discretion concerning action to be taken and policy to be expressed on any matter considered by an advisory committee.
§ 14.7
Administrative remedies.
A person who alleges noncompliance by the Commissioner or an advisory committee with any provision of this part or the Federal Advisory Committee Act may pursue the following administrative remedies:
(a) If the person objects to any action, including a failure to act, other than denial of access to an advisory committee document, the person shall submit a petition in the form and in accordance with the requirements of § 10.30. The provisions of § 10.45 relating to exhaustion of administrative remedies are applicable.
(1) If the person objects to past action, the person shall submit the petition within 30 days after the action objected to. If the Commissioner determines that there was noncompliance with any provision of this subpart or of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Commissioner will grant any appropriate relief and take appropriate steps to prevent its future recurrence.
(2) If the person objects to proposed future action, the Commissioner will expedite the review of the petition and make a reasonable effort to render a decision before the action concerned in the petition.
(3) If the person objects to action that is imminent or occurring and which could not reasonably have been anticipated, e.g., the closing of a portion of a meeting which is made known for the first time on the day of the meeting, the matter may be handled by an oral petition in lieu of a written petition.
(b) If the person objects to a denial of access to an advisory committee document, administrative review is in accordance with the procedures established by the Department of Health and Human Services under 45 CFR 5.61—and 45 CFR 5.64.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 1404, Jan. 16, 1990; 85 FR 72906, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 14.10
Applicability to Congress.
This part applies to Congress, individual Members of Congress, and other
employees or representatives of Congress in the same way that they apply to any other member of the public, except that disclosure of advisory committee records to Congress is governed by § 20.87.
§ 14.15
Committees working under a contract with FDA.
(a) FDA may enter into contracts with independent scientific or technical organizations to obtain advice and recommendations on particular matters, and these organizations may in turn undertake such work through existing or new committees. Whether a particular committee working under such a contract is an advisory committee subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act and this subpart depends upon application of the criteria and principles in § 14.1(b).
(b) The following minimum standards apply to any committee of an independent scientific or technical organization which is working under a contract initially executed with FDA after July 1, 1975, but which is determined not to be an advisory committee:
(1) The committee shall give public notice of its meetings and agenda, and provide interested persons an opportunity to submit relevant information and views in writing at any time, and orally at specified times. The notice may be published in the
Federal Register
or disseminated by other reasonable means. It is in any event to be filed with the Dockets Management Staff not less than 15 days before the meeting. The time for oral presentations and the extent to which the committee meets in open session other than for such oral presentations is in the discretion of the committee.
(2) Minutes of open sessions are to be maintained, with all written submissions attached which were made to the committee in open session. After approval, the minutes are to be forwarded to the Dockets Management Staff and placed on public display. The extent to which the committee maintains minutes of closed sessions is in the discretion of the committee.
(3) In selecting the members of the committee, the organization involved is to apply the principles relating to conflicts of interest that FDA uses in establishing a public advisory committee. Those principles are set out or cross-referenced in this part and in part 19. Upon request, FDA will assist or provide guidance to any organization in meeting this requirement.

# Subpart B—Meeting Procedures
§ 14.20
Notice of hearing before an advisory committee.
(a) Before the first of each month, and at least 15 days in advance of a meeting, the Commissioner will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of all advisory committee meetings to be held during the month. Any advisory committee meetings for that month called after the publication of the general monthly notice are to be announced in the
Federal Register
on an individual basis at least 15 days in advance. The Commissioner may authorize an exception to these notice requirements in an emergency or for other reasons requiring an immediate meeting of an advisory committee, in which case public notice will be given at the earliest time and in the most accessible form feasible including, whenever possible, publication in the
Federal Register.
(b) The
Federal Register
notice will include—
(1) The name of the committee;
(2) The date, time, and place of the meeting;
(3) The general function of the committee;
(4) A list of all agenda items, showing whether each will be discussed in an open or closed portion of the meeting;
(5) If any portion of the meeting is closed, a statement of the time of the open and closed portions;
(6) The nature of the subjects to be discussed during, and the reasons for closing, any closed portion of the meeting;
(7) The time set aside for oral statements and other public participation;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of the advisory committee Designated Federal Officer and any other agency employee designated as responsible for the administrative support for the advisory committee;
(9) A statement that written submissions may be made to the advisory
committee through the Designated Federal Officer at any time, unless a cutoff date has been established under § 14.35(d)(2);
(10) When a notice is published in the
Federal Register
less than 15 days before a meeting, an explanation for the lateness of the notice; and
(c) If a public hearing before an advisory committee is used in lieu of a formal evidentiary public hearing under § 14.1(a)(3), an initial notice of hearing is to be published separately in the
Federal Register
containing all the information described in § 12.32(e). This procedure may be used for any other hearing before an advisory committee when the Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it would be informative to the public.
(d) A list of advisory committee meetings will be distributed to the press by the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 26375, June 1, 1982; 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 66 FR 6469, Jan. 22, 2001; 66 FR 12850, Mar. 1, 2001]
§ 14.22
Meetings of an advisory committee.
(a) No advisory committee may conduct a meeting except at the call or with the advance approval of, and with an agenda approved by, the designated Federal employee or alternate. No meeting may be held in the absence of the designated Federal employee.
(1) If any matter is added to the agenda after its publication in the
Federal Register
under § 14.20(b)(4), an attempt is to be made to inform persons known to be interested in the matter, and the change is to be announced at the beginning of the open portion of the meeting.
(2) The advisory committee meeting is to be conducted in accordance with the approved final agenda insofar as practical.
(b) Advisory committee meetings will be held at places that are reasonably accessible to the public. All advisory committee meetings will be held in Washington, DC, or Rockville, MD, or the immediate vicinity, unless the Commissioner receives and approves a written request from the advisory committee for a different location. A different location may be approved when one or more of the following applies:
(1) The total cost of the meeting to the Government will be reduced.
(2) A substantial number of the committee members will be at the location at no expense to FDA for other reasons, e.g., for a meeting of a professional association.
(3) It is a central location more readily accessible to committee members.
(4) There is a need for increased participation available at that location.
(5) The committee wishes to review work or facilities in a specific location.
(6) The committee is concerned with matters that functionally or historically occur in some other location, e.g., the Science Advisory Board of the National Center for Toxicological Research will generally hold meetings in the Little Rock, AR, vicinity.
(c) Advisory committee members may, with the approval of FDA, conduct onsite visits relevant to their work.
(d) Unless the committee charter provides otherwise, a quorum for an advisory committee is a majority of the current voting members of the committee, except as provided in § 14.125(c) for TEPRSSC. Any matter before the advisory committee is to be decided by a majority vote of the voting members present at the time, except that the designated Federal official may require that any final report be voted upon by all current voting members of the committee. Any current voting member of the committee may file a separate report with additional or minority views.
(e) If space is available, any interested person may attend any portion of any advisory committee meeting which is not closed.
(f) Whenever feasible, meetings are to be held in government facilities or other facilities involving the least expense to the public. The size of the meeting room is to be reasonable, considering such factors as the size of the committee, the number of persons expected to attend a meeting, and the resources and facilities available.
(g) The Commissioner may authorize a meeting to be held by conference telephone call. For these meetings, a speaker phone will be provided in a
conference room located in Washington, DC, or Rockville, MD, or the immediate vicinity, to permit public participation in open portions of the meetings, as provided in §§ 14.25 and 14.29. These meetings generally will be brief, and authorized—
(1) For the purpose of taking final votes or otherwise confirming actions taken by the committee at other meetings; or
(2) Where time does not permit a meeting to be held at a central location.
(h) Any portion of a meeting will be closed by the committee Chairperson only when matters are to be discussed which the Commissioner has determined may be considered in closed session under § 14.27(b). If a portion of the meeting is closed, the closed portion will be held after the conclusion of the open portion whenever practicable.
(i) Any committee member may take notes during meetings and report and discuss committee deliberations after a meeting is completed and before official minutes or a report are available, within the rules and regulations adopted by FDA and by the advisory committee with the concurrence of FDA, including all of the following:
(1) There may be no attribution of individual views expressed in a closed session or revealing of numerical votes.
(2) There may be no reporting or discussion of any particular matter if the committee or FDA specifically so directs, e.g., where deliberations are incomplete or involve a sensitive regulatory decision that requires preparation or implementation.
(3) There may be no reporting or discussion of information prohibited from public disclosure under § 14.75.
(4) Notes or minutes kept or reports prepared by a committee member have no status or effect unless adopted into the official minutes or report by the committee.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979; 48 FR 40887, Sept. 12, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]
§ 14.25
Portions of advisory committee meetings.
An advisory committee meeting has the following portions:
(a)
The open public hearing.
Every committee meeting includes an open portion, which constitutes a public hearing during which interested persons may present relevant information or views orally or in writing. The hearing is conducted in accordance with § 14.29.
(b)
The open committee discussion.
A committee discusses any matter pending before it in an open portion of its meeting unless the meeting has been closed for that matter under § 14.27. To the maximum extent feasible, consistent with the policy expressed in § 14.27, a committee conducts its discussion of pending matters in an open portion. No public participation is permissible during this portion of the meeting except with the consent of the committee Chairperson.
(c)
The closed presentation of data.
Information prohibited from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced therein is presented to the committee in a closed portion of its meeting. However, if information is in the form of a summary that is not prohibited from public disclosure, the presentation is to be made in an open portion of a meeting.
(d)
The closed committee deliberations.
Deliberations about matters before an advisory committee may be held in a closed portion of a meeting only upon an appropriate determination by the Commissioner under § 14.27.
§ 14.27
Determination to close portions of advisory committee meetings.
(a) No committee meeting may be entirely closed. A portion of a meeting may be closed only in accordance with a written determination by the Commissioner under this section.
(b) The Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee shall prepare the initial request for a determination to close a portion of a meeting, specifying the matter(s) to be discussed during the closed portion and the reasons why the portion should be closed. The Commissioner, based upon this request and with the concurrence of the Chief Counsel, will determine whether to close a portion of a meeting. The reasons for closing a portion of a meeting will be announced in the
Federal Register
notice of the meeting under § 14.20 in accordance with the following rules:
(1) Any determination to close a portion of a meeting restricts the closing to the shortest possible time consistent with the policy in this section.
(2) A portion of a meeting may be closed only if the Commissioner determines that the closing is permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552b(c), and that the closing is necessary.
(3) Portions of meetings may ordinarily be closed if they concern the review, discussion, and evaluation of drafts or regulations, guidance documents or similar preexisting internal agency documents, but only if their premature disclosure would significantly impede proposed agency action; review of trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information; consideration of matters involving investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes; and review of matters, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(4) Portions of meetings ordinarily may not be closed if they concern review, discussion, and evaluation of general preclinical and clinical test protocols and procedures for a class of drugs or devices; consideration of labeling requirements for a class of marketed drugs and devices; review of information on specific investigational or marketed drugs and devices that have previously been made public; presentation of any other information not exempt from public disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552b(c); the formulation of advice and recommendations to FDA on matters that do not independently justify closing.
(5) No portion of a meeting devoted to matters other than those designated in paragraph (b) (1) through (3) of this section may be closed.
(6) A matter which is properly considered in an open portion of a meeting may instead be considered in a closed portion only if it is so inextricably intertwined with matters to be discussed in a closed portion that it is not feasible to separate them or discussion of the matter in an open portion would compromise the matters to be discussed in the closed portion.
(c) Attendance at a closed portion of a meeting is governed by the following rules:
(1) A portion of a meeting closed for the presentation or discussion of information that constitutes a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 may be attended only by voting advisory committee members, nonvoting members representing consumer interests who are also special government employees as provided in § 14.80(b), the Designated Federal Officer of the advisory committee, a transcriber, consultants, and such other regular employees of FDA (including members of the Office of the Chief Counsel) as the Chairperson of the advisory committee may invite, and by those persons authorized to be present under § 14.25(c), for presentation of information prohibited from public disclosure. A person making a presentation described in § 14.25(c) may be accompanied by a reasonable number of employees, consultants, or other persons in a commercial arrangement within the meaning of § 20.81(a).
(2) A portion of a meeting that has been closed for consideration of existing internal agency documents falling within § 20.62 where premature disclosure is likely to significantly impede proposed agency action; personnel, medical, and similar files, disclosure of which would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy within the meaning of § 20.63; or investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes as defined in § 20.64 may be attended only by committee members (voting and nonvoting), the Designated Federal Officer of the committee, a transcriber, and other regular employees of FDA (including members of the Office of the Chief Counsel) whom the Chairperson of the committee may invite. Consultants, individuals performing personal service contracts, employees of other Federal agencies, and the general public may not attend such portions.
(3) If a person other than a person permitted to attend in accordance with paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section attempts to attend a closed portion of a meeting without the approval of the Designated Federal Officer and the Chairperson, and the matter is brought
to their attention, the person will be required to leave the meeting immediately. This inadvertent and unauthorized attendance does not enable other unauthorized persons to attend, nor does it, of itself, constitute grounds for release of transcripts of closed portions or any other documents otherwise exempt from disclosure under § 14.75 and part 20.
(4) If a person other than a person permitted to attend in accordance with paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section is allowed by the Designated Federal Officer and the Chairperson to attend a closed portion of a meeting, that portion is open to attendance by any interested person.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 65 FR 56479, Sept. 19, 2000]
§ 14.29
Conduct of a hearing before an advisory committee.
(a) For each meeting, the open portion for public participation, which constitutes a public hearing under § 14.25(a), will be at least 1 hour, unless public participation does not last that long, and may last for whatever longer time the committee Chairperson determines will facilitate the work of the committee. The
Federal Register
notice published under § 14.20 will designate the time specifically reserved for the hearing, which is ordinarily the first portion of the meeting. Further public participation in any open portion of the meeting under § 14.25(b) is solely at the discretion of the Chairperson.
(b) An interested person who wishes to be assured of the right to make an oral presentation at a meeting shall inform the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee, orally or in writing, before the meeting.
(1) The person shall state the general nature of the presentation and the approximate time desired. Whenever possible, all written information to be discussed by that person at the meeting should be furnished in advance to the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee. This material may be distributed or mailed by FDA to the committee members in advance of the meeting if time permits, and otherwise will be distributed to the members when they arrive for the meeting. The mailing or distribution may be undertaken only by FDA unless FDA grants permission to a person to mail or distribute the material
(2) Before the meeting, the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee shall determine the amount of time allocated to each person for oral presentation and the time that the presentation is to begin. Each person will be so informed in writing, if time permits, or by telephone. FDA may require persons with common interests to make joint presentations.
(c) The Chairperson of the committee shall preside at the meeting in accordance with § 14.30 and be accompanied by other committee members, who serve as a panel in conducting the hearing portion of the meeting.
(d) Each person may use the allotted time as desired, consistent with an orderly hearing. A person may be accompanied by additional persons, and may present any written information or views for inclusion in the record of the hearing, subject to the requirements of § 14.35(c).
(e) If a person is absent at the time specified for that person's presentation, the persons following will appear in order. An attempt will be made to hear the person at the conclusion of the hearing. Interested persons attending the hearing who did not request an opportunity to make an oral presentation may be given an opportunity to do so at the discretion of the Chairperson.
(f) The Chairperson and other members may question a person concerning that person's presentation. No other person, however, may question the person. The Chairperson may allot additional time when it is in the public interest, but may not reduce the time allotted without consent of the person.
(g) Participants may question a committee member only with that member's permission and only about matters before the committee.
(h) The hearing is informal, and the rules of evidence do not apply. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views may be made or considered, but other participants may comment upon or
rebut matters presented. No participant may interrupt the presentation of another participant.
§ 14.30
Chairperson of an advisory committee.
(a) The advisory committee Chairperson has the authority to conduct hearings and meetings, including the authority to adjourn a hearing or meeting if the Chairperson determines that adjournment is in the public interest, to discontinue discussion of a matter, to conclude the open portion of a meeting, or to take any other action to further a fair and expeditious hearing or meeting.
(b) If the Chairperson is not a full-time employee of FDA, the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee, or alternate, is to be the
designated Federal employee
who is assigned to the advisory committee. The designated Federal employee is also authorized to adjourn a hearing or meeting if the employee determines adjournment to be in the public interest.
§ 14.31
Consultation by an advisory committee with other persons.
(a) A committee may confer with any person who may have information or views relevant to any matter pending before the committee.
(b) An interested person may submit to the committee a written request that it confer with specific persons about any matter pending before the committee. The request is to contain adequate justification. The committee may, in its discretion, grant the request.
(c) A committee may confer with a person who is not a Federal Government executive branch employee only during the open portions of a meeting. The person may, however, submit views in writing to the committee as part of the administrative record under § 14.70. The person may participate at the closed portions of a meeting only if appointed as a special Government employee by the Commissioner as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. This paragraph (c) is not intended to bar the testimony of a person during a closed portion of a meeting about matters prohibited from public disclosure under §§ 14.25(c) and 14.27(c).
(d) To prevent inadvertent violation of Federal conflict of interest laws and laws prohibiting disclosure of trade secrets (18 U.S.C. 208, 21 U.S.C. 331(j), 18 U.S.C. 1905), Federal executive branch employees who are not employees of the Department may not confer, testify, or otherwise participate (other than as observers) at any portion of an advisory committee meeting unless they are appointed as special Government employees by the Commissioner under paragraph (e) of this section. this paragraph does not apply to Federal executive branch employees who are appointed as members of TEPRSSC, as provided in § 14.127.
(e) The Commissioner may appoint persons as special Government employees to be consultants to an advisory committee. Consultants may be appointed to provide expertise, generally concerning a highly technical matter, not readily available from the members of the committee. Consultants may be either from outside the Government or from agencies other than the Food and Drug Administration. Reports, data, information, and other written submissions made to a public advisory committee by a consultant are part of the administrative record itemized in § 14.70.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 42703, Oct. 23, 1990]
§ 14.33
Compilation of materials for members of an advisory committee.
The Commissioner shall prepare and provide to all committee members a compilation of materials bearing upon members' duties and responsibilities, including—
(a) All applicable conflict of interest laws and regulations and a summary of their principal provisions;
(b) All applicable laws and regulations relating to trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information that may not be disclosed publicly and a summary of their principal provisions;
(c) All applicable laws, regulations, and guidance documents relating to the subject matter covered by the advisory committee and a summary of their principal provisions;
(d) All applicable laws, regulations, including the regulations in part 20 of
this chapter, advisory committee charters,
Federal Register
notices, curricula vitae, rules adopted by the advisory committee, and other material relating to the formation, composition, and operation of the advisory committee, and a summary of their principal provisions;
(e) Instructions on whom to contact when questions arise; and
(f) Other material relating to FDA and the subject matter covered by the committee which may facilitate the work of the committee.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 65 FR 56479, Sept. 19, 2000]
§ 14.35
Written submissions to an advisory committee.
(a) Ten copies of written submissions to a committee are to be sent to the Designated Federal Officer unless an applicable
Federal Register
notice or other regulations in this chapter specify otherwise. Submissions are subject to the provisions of § 10.20, except that it is not necessary to send copies to the Dockets Management Staff.
(b) At the request of a committee, or on the Commissioner's own initiative, the Commissioner may issue in the
Federal Register
a notice requesting the submission to the committee of written information and views pertinent to a matter being reviewed by the committee. The notice may specify the manner in which the submission should be made.
(c) At the request of a committee, or on the Commissioner's own initiative, the Commissioner may at any time request the applicant or sponsor of an application or petition about a specific product on which action is pending before FDA, and is being reviewed by an advisory committee, to present or discuss safety, effectiveness, or other data concerning the product during a regularly scheduled meeting of the committee. The request may be for an oral presentation or for a concise, well-organized written summary of pertinent information for review by the committee members before the meeting, or both. Unless specified otherwise, one copy of the written summary along with a proposed agenda outlining the topics to be covered and identifying the participating industry staff members or consultants that will present each topic is to be submitted to the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee at least 3 weeks before the meeting.
(d) An interested person may submit to a committee written information or views on any matter being reviewed. Voluminous data is to be accompanied by a summary. A submission is to be made to the Designated Federal Officer and not directly to a committee member.
(1) FDA will distribute submissions to each member, either by mail or at the next meeting. Submissions will be considered by the committee in its review of the matter.
(2) A committee may establish, and give public notice of, a cutoff date after which submissions about a matter will no longer be received or considered.
(e) The Commissioner will provide the committee all information the Commissioner deems relevant. A member will, upon request, also be provided any material available to FDA which the member believes appropriate for an independent judgment on the matter, e.g., raw data underlying a summary or report, or a briefing on the legal aspects of the matter.
§ 14.39
Additional rules for a particular advisory committee.
(a) In addition to these rules, an advisory committee may, with the concurrence of the designated Federal employee, adopt additional rules which are not inconsistent with this subpart or with other legal requirements.
(b) Any additional rules will be included in the minutes of the meeting when adopted and in the materials compiled under § 14.33 and will be available for public disclosure under § 14.65(c).

# Subpart C—Establishment of Advisory Committees
§ 14.40
Establishment and renewal of advisory committees.
(a) An advisory committee may be established or renewed whenever it is necessary or appropriate for the committee to hold a public hearing and to review and make recommendations on
any matter pending before FDA. Except for committees established by statute, before a committee is established or renewed it must first be approved by the Department pursuant to 45 CFR part 11 and by the General Services Administration.
(b) When an advisory committee is established or renewed, the Commissioner will issue a
Federal Register
notice certifying that the establishment or renewal is in the public interest and stating the structure, function, and purposes of the committee and, if it is a standing advisory committee, shall amend § 14.100 to add it to the list of standing advisory committees. A notice of establishment will be published at least 15 days before the filing of the advisory committee charter under paragraph (c) of this section. A notice of renewal does not require the 15-day notice.
(c) No committee may meet or take action until its charter is prepared and filed as required by section 9(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. This requirement is to be met by an advisory committee utilized by FDA, even though it is not established by the agency, prior to utilization.
(d) The regulations of the Department cited in paragraph (a) of this section provide that the charter of a parent committee may incorporate information concerning activities of a subgroup. In such instances, a subgroup will not be established as a committee distinct from the parent committee. However, a subgroup will be established as a separate committee when the charter of the parent committee does not incorporate the activities of the subgroup, or when the subgroup includes members who are not all drawn from the parent committee.
(e) An advisory committee not required to be established by law will be established or utilized only if it is in the public interest and only if its functions cannot reasonably be performed by other existing advisory committees or by FDA.
(f) An advisory committee must meet the following standards:
(1) Its purpose is clearly defined.
(2) Its membership is balanced fairly in terms of the points of view represented in light of the functions to be performed. Although proportional representation is not required, advisory committee members are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, age, or sex.
(3) It is constituted and utilizes procedures designed to assure that its advice and recommendations are the result of the advisory committee's independent judgment.
(4) Its staff is adequate. The Commissioner designates an Designated Federal Officer and alternate for every advisory committee, who are employees of FDA. The Designated Federal Officer is responsible for all staff support unless other agency employees are designated for this function.
(5) Whenever feasible, or required by statute, it includes representatives of the public interest.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 42703, Oct. 23, 1990]
§ 14.55
Termination of advisory committees.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a standing advisory committee is terminated when it is no longer needed, or not later than 2 years after its date of establishment unless it is renewed for an additional 2-year period. A committee may be renewed for as many 2-year periods as the public interest requires. The requirements for establishment of a committee under § 14.40 also apply to its renewal.
(b) FDA will issue a
Federal Register
notice announcing the reasons for terminating a committee and, if it is a standing committee, amending § 14.100 to delete it from the list.
(c) TEPRSSC is a permanent statutory advisory committee established by section 358(f)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968, transferred to the FD
C Act (21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)(1)(A)), and is not subject to termination and renewal under paragraph (a) of this section, except that a new charter is prepared and filed at the end of each 2-year period as provided in § 14.40(c). Also, the statutory medical device classification panels established under section 513(b)(1) of the FD
C Act (21 U.S.C. 360c(b)(1)) and part 860, and the statutory medical
device good manufacturing practice advisory committees established under section 520(f)(3) of the FD
C Act (21 U.S.C. 360j(f)(3)), are specifically exempted from the normal 2-year duration period.
(d) Color additive advisory committees are required to be established under the circumstances specified in sections 721(b)(5)(C) and (D) of the FD
C Act (21 U.S.C. 379e(b)(5)(C) and (D)). A color additive advisory committee is subject to the termination and renewal requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and of this part.
(e) The Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee is a permanent statutory advisory committee established by section 917 of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (21 U.S.C. 387q) (Pub. L. 111-31) and is not subject to termination and renewal under paragraph (a) of this section.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 75 FR 73953, Nov. 30, 2010; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]

# Subpart D—Records of Meetings and Hearings Before Advisory Committees
§ 14.60
Minutes and reports of advisory committee meetings.
(a) The Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee prepares detailed minutes of all advisory committee meetings, except that less detailed minutes may be prepared for open portions of meetings which under § 14.61, must be transcribed or recorded by the agency. Their accuracy is approved by the committee and certified by the Chairperson. The approval and certification may be accomplished by mail or by telephone.
(b) The minutes include the following:
(1) The time and place of the meeting.
(2) The members, committee staff, and agency employees present, and the names and affiliations or interests of public participants.
(3) A copy of or reference to all written information made available for consideration by the committee at the proceedings.
(4) A complete and accurate description of matters discussed and conclusions reached. A description is to be kept separately for the following portions of the meeting to facilitate their public disclosure: The open portions specified in § 14.25 (a) and (b), any closed portion during which a presentation is made under § 14.25(c), and any closed deliberative portion under § 14.25(d). The minutes of a closed deliberative portion of a meeting may not refer to members by name, except upon their request, or to data or information described in § 14.75(b). Any inadvertent references that occur are to be deleted before public disclosure.
(5) A copy of or reference to all reports received, issued, or approved by the committee.
(6) The extent to which the meeting was open to the public.
(7) The extent of public participation, including a list of members of the public who presented oral or written statements.
(c) For a meeting that has a closed portion, either (1) the minutes of the closed portion are available for public disclosure under § 14.75(a)(6)(i), or (2) if under § 14.75(a)(6)(ii) they are not promptly available, the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee shall prepare a brief summary of the matters considered in an informative manner to the public, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552(b).
(d) Where a significant portion of the meeting of a committee is closed, the committee will issue a report at least annually setting forth a summary of its activities and related matters informative to the public consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552(b). This report is to be a compilation of or be prepared from the individual reports on closed portions of meeting prepared under paragraph (c) of this section.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 85725, Dec. 30, 1980]
§ 14.61
Transcripts of advisory committee meetings.
(a) The agency will arrange for a transcript or recording to be made for each portion of a meeting.
(b) A transcript or recording of an open portion of a meeting made by
FDA is to be included in the record of the committee proceedings.
(c) A transcript or recording of any closed portion of a meeting made by FDA will not be included in the administrative record of the committee proceedings. The transcript or recording will be retained as confidential by FDA, and will not be discarded or erased.
(d) Any transcript or recording of a meeting or portion thereof which is publicly available under this section will be available at actual cost of duplication, which will be, where applicable, the fees established in § 20.45. FDA may furnish the requested transcript or recording for copying to a private contractor who shall charge directly for the cost of copying under § 20.53.
(e) A person attending any open portion of a meeting may, consistent with the orderly conduct of the meeting, record or otherwise take a transcript of the meeting. This transcription will not be part of the administrative record.
(f) Only FDA may make a transcript or recording of a closed portion of a meeting.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003]
§ 14.65
Public inquiries and requests for advisory committee records.
(a) Public inquiries on general committee matters, except requests for records, are to be directed to the Committee Management Officer in the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, Rm. 5103, Silver Spring, MD 20993.
(b) Public inquiries on matters relating to a specific committee, except requests for records, are to be directed to the Designated Federal Officer or the designated agency employee listed in the
Federal Register
notices published under § 14.20.
(c) Requests for public advisory committee records, including minutes, are to be made, to FDA's Division of Freedom of Information (the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov
) under § 20.40 and the related provisions of part 20.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 14.70
Administrative record of a public hearing before an advisory committee.
(a) Advice or recommendations of an advisory committee may be given only on matters covered in the administrative record of the committee's proceedings. Except as specified in other FDA regulations, the administrative record consists of all the following items relating to the matter:
(1) Any transcript or recording of an open portion of a meeting.
(2) The minutes of all portions of all meetings, after any deletions under § 14.60(b)(4).
(3) All written submissions to and information considered by the committee.
(4) All reports made by the committee.
(5) Any reports prepared by a consultant under § 14.31(e).
(b) The record of the proceeding is closed at the time the advisory committee renders its advice or recommendations or at any earlier time specified by the committee or in other sections in this chapter.
§ 14.75
Examination of administrative record and other advisory committee records.
(a) The administrative record and other committee records are available for public disclosure under part 20, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, at the following times:
(1) The written information for consideration by the committee at any meeting: at the same time it is made available to the committee.
(2) The transcript or recording of any open portion of a meeting: as soon as it is available.
(3) The minutes of any open portion of a meeting: after they have been approved by the committee and certified by the Chairperson.
(4) The brief summary of any closed portion of a meeting prepared under § 14.60(c): as soon as it is available.
(5) All written information or views submitted to the committee at an open portion of a meeting: as soon as they are submitted.
(6) The minutes or portions thereof of a closed portion of a meeting—
(i) For a matter not directed to be maintained as confidential under § 14.22(i)(2): After they have been approved by the committee and certified by the Chairperson; and
(ii) For a matter directed to be maintained as confidential under § 14.22(i)(2): After the advice or report of the committee relevant to those minutes or portions thereof is acted upon by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that such minutes or portions thereof may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or advisory committee operations.
(7) Formal advice or a report of the committee: After it has been acted upon, i.e., approved, disapproved, or rejected as inadequate, by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that such formal advice or report may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or committee operations. Such formal advice or report may be retained as confidential while it is under active advisement.
(8) Any other committee records relating to the matter, except transcripts and recordings of closed portions of meetings: After the advice or report of the committee relevant to those records is acted upon by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that the records may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or committee operations.
(b) The following information contained in the administrative record is not available for public examination or copying except as provided in § 12.32(g):
(1) Material provided to the committee by FDA that is exempt from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced there.
(2) Material provided to the advisory committee by a person making a presentation described in § 14.25(c) and which is prohibited from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced there.
(c) The Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305) will maintain a file for each committee containing the following principal records for ready access by the public:
(1) The committee charter.
(2) A list of committee members and their curricula vitae.
(3) The minutes of committee meetings.
(4) Any formal advice or report of the committee.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Subpart E—Members of Advisory Committees
§ 14.80
Qualifications for members of standing policy and technical advisory committees.
(a) Members of a policy advisory committee—
(1) Shall have diverse interests, education, training, and experience; specific technical expertise is not a requirement;
(2) Are subject to the conflict of interest laws and regulations either as special Government employees or as members of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (the Commissioner has determined that, because members representing particular interests, e.g., a representative of labor, industry, consumers, or agriculture, are included on advisory committees specifically for the purpose of representing these interests, any financial interest covered by 18 U.S.C. 208(a) in the class which the member represents is irrelevant to the services which the Government expects from them and thus is hereby exempted under 18 U.S.C. 208(b) as too remote and inconsequential to affect the integrity of their services); and
(3) Shall be voting members.
(b)
Technical advisory committee.
(1) Voting members of technical advisory committees—
(i) Shall have expertise in the subject matter with which the committee is concerned and have diverse professional education, training, and experience so that the committee will reflect a balanced composition of sufficient
scientific expertise to handle the problems that come before it; and
(ii) Except for members of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC), are subject to the conflict of interest laws and regulations either as special Government employees or as members of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service.
(2) The Commissioner shall, when required by statute, and may when not required by statute, provide for nonvoting members of a technical advisory committee to serve as representatives of and liaison with interested organizations. Nonvoting members—
(i) Shall be selected by the interested organizations, as provided in § 14.84; technical expertise in the subject matter with which the committee is involved is not a requirement; and
(ii) May be special Government employees subject to the conflict of interest laws and regulations, except as provided in § 14.84(e).
(c) A person may serve as a voting or nonvoting member on only one FDA advisory committee unless the Commissioner determines in writing that dual membership will aid the work of the committees involved and is in the public interest.
(d) Members of FDA advisory committees, and the Chairperson, are appointed from among those nominated under §§ 14.82 and 14.84 and from any other sources by the Secretary, or, by delegation of authority, by the Assistant Secretary for Health, or the Commissioner.
(e) Members appointed to an advisory committee serve for the duration of the committee, or until their terms of appointment expire, they resign, or they are removed from membership by the Commissioner.
(f) A committee member may be removed from membership for good cause. Good cause includes excessive absenteeism from committee meetings, a demonstrated bias that interferes with the ability to render objective advice, failure to abide by the procedures established in this subpart, or violation of other applicable rules and regulations, e.g., for nonvoting members, the provisions of § 14.86(c).
(g) Consultants appointed under § 14.31(e) are not members of advisory committees.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 50949, Dec. 19, 1988; 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 14.82
Nominations of voting members of standing advisory committees.
(a) The Commissioner will publish one or more notices in the
Federal Register
each year requesting nominations for voting members of all existing standing advisory committees. The notice will invite the submission of nominations for voting members from both individuals and organizations.
(b) The notice announcing the establishment of a new committee under § 14.40(b) will invite the submission of nominations for voting members.
(c) A person may nominate one or more qualified persons to an advisory committee. Nominations will specify the advisory committee for which the nominee is recommended and will include a complete curriculum vitae of the nominee. Nominations are to state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member of the advisory committee, and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude membership.
(d) Voting members serve as individuals and not as representatives of any group or organization which nominated them or with which they may be affiliated.
§ 14.84
Nominations and selection of nonvoting members of standing technical advisory committees.
(a) This section applies when the Commissioner concludes that a technical advisory committee should include nonvoting members to represent and serve as a liaison with interested individuals and organizations.
(b) Except when the Commissioner concludes otherwise, nonvoting members of a technical advisory committee are selected in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and are normally limited to one person selected by consumer groups and organizations and one person selected by industry groups and organizations.
(c) To select a nonvoting member to represent consumer interests, except as
provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the Commissioner publishes a notice in the
Federal Register
requesting nominations for each specific committee, or subcommittee, for which nonvoting members are to be appointed.
(1) A period of 30 days will be permitted for submission of nominations for that committee or subcommittee. Interested persons may nominate one or more qualified persons to represent consumer interests. Although nominations from individuals will be accepted, individuals are encouraged to submit their nominations through consumer organizations as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Nominations of qualified persons for general consideration as nonvoting members of unspecified advisory committees or subcommittees may be made at any time. All nominations are to be submitted in writing to Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, rm. 1503, Silver Spring, MD 20993.
(2) A complete curriculum vitae of any nominee is to be included. Nominations must state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member of an advisory committee, and appears to have no conflict of interest. The nomination must state whether a nominee is interested only in a particular advisory committee or subcommittee, or whether the nominee is interested in becoming a member of any advisory committee or subcommittee. Nominations that do not comply with the requirements of this paragraph will not be considered.
(3) The Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will compile a list of organizations whose objectives are to promote, encourage, and contribute to the advancement of consumer education and to the resolution of consumer problems. All organizations listed are entitled to vote upon the nominees. The list will include organizations representing the public interest, consumer advocacy groups, and consumer/health branches of Federal, State, and local governments. Any organization that meets the criteria may be included on such list on request.
(4) The executive secretary, or other designated agency employee, will review the list of nominees and select three to five qualified nominees to be placed on a ballot. Names not selected will remain on a list of eligible nominees and be reviewed periodically by the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff to determine continued interest. Upon selection of the nominees to be placed on the ballot, the curriculum vitae for each of the nominees will be sent to each of the organizations on the list complied under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, together with a ballot to be filled out and returned within 30 days. After the time for return of the ballots has expired, the ballots will be counted and the nominee who has received the highest number of votes will be selected as the nonvoting member representing consumer interests for that particular advisory committee or subcommittee. In the event of a tie, the Commissioner will select the winner by lot from among those tied for the highest number of votes
(5) If a member representing consumer interests resigns or is removed before termination of the committee on which the member is serving, the following procedures will be used to appoint a replacement to serve out the term of the former member:
(i) The Commissioner will appoint the runner-up, in order of number of ballots received, on the original ballot submitted under paragraph (c)(4) of this section to fill the vacancy. If the runner-up is no longer willing to serve as a member, then the next runner-up will be appointed.
(ii) If none of the nominees on the original ballot is willing to serve, or if there was only one nominee on the original ballot, the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will contact by telephone eligible individuals whose names have been submitted in the past as candidates for membership as representatives of consumer interests. A list of persons who are interested in serving on an advisory committee will then be prepared. The curricula vitae of these persons, together with a ballot, will be sent to a representative number of consumer
organizations that have been determined to be eligible to vote for consumer representatives in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After 4 days have elapsed, the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will contact the consumer organizations by telephone and elicit their votes. The candidate who has received the highest number of votes will be selected. In the event of a tie, the Commissioner will select the winner by lot from among those tied for the highest number of votes.
(d) To select a nonvoting member to represent industry interests, the Commissioner will publish, for each committee for which the Commissioner has determined to appoint a nonvoting member, a notice requesting that, within 30 days, any industry organization interested in participating in the selection of an appropriate nonvoting member to represent industry interests send a letter stating that interest to the FDA employee designated in the notice. After 30 days, a letter will be sent to each organization that has expressed an interest, attaching a complete list of all such organizations, and stating that it is their responsibility to consult with each other in selecting, within 60 days after receipt of the letter, a single nonvoting member to represent industry interests for that committee. If no individual is selected within 60 days, the Commissioner will select the nonvoting member representing industry interests.
(e) The Commissioner has determined that, because nonvoting members representing consumer and industry interests are included on advisory committees specifically for the purpose of representing such interests and have no vote, any financial interest covered by 18 U.S.C. 208(a) in the class which the member represents is irrelevant to the services the Government expects from them and thus is hereby exempted under 18 U.S.C. 208(b) as too remote and inconsequential to affect the integrity of their services.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 75 FR 15342, Mar. 29, 2010]
§ 14.86
Rights and responsibilities of nonvoting members of advisory committees.
(a) A nonvoting member of an advisory committee selected to represent and serve as a liaison with interested individuals, associations, and organizations has the same rights as any other committee member except that—
(1) A nonvoting member may vote only on procedural matters such as additional rules adopted under § 14.39(a), approval of minutes under § 14.60(a), decisions on transcripts under § 14.61(b), and future meeting dates;
(2) A nonvoting member who is a representative of industry interest may have access to data and information that constitute a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 only if the person has been appointed as a special Government employee under § 14.80(b).
(b) A nonvoting member of an advisory committee is subject to, and shall abide by, all rules and regulations adopted by FDA and the committee.
(c) It is the responsibility of the nonvoting consumer and industry members of an advisory committee to represent the consumer and industry interests in all deliberations.
(1) A nonvoting member does not represent any particular organization or group, but rather represents all interested persons within the class which the member is selected to represent. Accordingly, an interested person within the class represented by that nonvoting member may, upon request, have access to all written statements or oral briefings concerning the committee prepared by the nonvoting member for distribution to any person outside the committee. When documents are prepared with non-Government funds, persons desiring copies may be required to pay a reasonable fee to cover printing and similar costs.
(2) The nonvoting member reviews all official committee minutes to assure their completeness and accuracy.
(3) The nonvoting member acts as a liaison between the committee and the interested persons whom that member represents, and transmits requests for information from the committee and relevant information and views to the committee. The nonvoting member
takes the initiative in contacting interested persons whom the member represents to seek out relevant information and views and to relate the progress of the advisory committee.
(4) A nonvoting industry member represents all members of the industry, and not any particular association, company, product, or ingredient. If a matter comes before the committee that directly or indirectly affects the company employing the nonvoting industry member, the member shall so inform the committee but need not be absent during the discussion or decline to participate in the discussion. a nonvoting industry member may not discuss the company's position as such, but may discuss any matter in general terms. All presentations and discussions of scientific data and their interpretation on behalf of a company will occur in open session, except as provided in § 14.25(c).
(5) A nonvoting member of an advisory committee may not make any presentation to that advisory committee during a hearing conducted by that committee.
(6) Although a nonvoting member serves in a representative capacity, the nonvoting member shall exercise restraint in performing such functions and may not engage in unseemly advocacy or attempt to exert undue influence over the other members of the committee.
(d) A nonvoting member of an advisory committee may be removed by the Commissioner for failure to comply with this section as well as § 14.80(f).
§ 14.90
Ad hoc advisory committee members.
In selecting members of an ad hoc advisory committee, the Commissioner may use the procedures in §§ 14.82 and 14.84 or any other procedure deemed appropriate.
§ 14.95
Compensation of advisory committee members.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section, all voting advisory committee members shall, and nonvoting members may, be appointed as special Government employees and receive a consultant fee and be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, unless such compensation and reimbursement are waived.
(2) Members of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC) are not appointed as special Government employees. Any member of TEPRSSC who is not a Federal employee or member of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, shall receive a consultant fee and be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, unless such compensation and reimbursement are waived.
(3) Voting and nonvoting advisory committee members who are members of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, provide service on Food and Drug Administration advisory committees as part of their assigned functions, are not appointed as special government employees, but are reimbursed by the Food and Drug Administration for travel expenses.
(b) Notwithstanding the member's primary residence, an advisory committee member, while attending meetings of the full committee or a subcommittee, will be paid whether the meetings are held in the Washington, DC, area or elsewhere.
(c) A committee member who participates in any agency-directed assignment will be paid at an hourly rate when doing assigned work at home, a place of business, or in an FDA facility located within the member's commuting area, and at a daily rate when required to travel outside of that commuting area to perform the assignment. A committee member will not be paid for time spent on normal preparation for a committee meeting.
(1) An agency-directed assignment is an assignment that meets the following criteria:
(i) An activity that requires undertaking a definitive study. The activity must produce a tangible end product, usually a written report. Examples are:
(
a
) An analysis of the risks and benefits of the use of a class of drugs or a report on a specific problem generated by an IND or NDA;
(
b
) The performance of similar investigations or analysis of complex industry submissions to support advisory committee deliberations other than normal meeting preparation;
(
c
) The preparation of a statistical analysis leading to an estimate of toxicologically safe dose levels; and
(
d
) The design or analysis of animal studies of toxicity, mutagenicity, teratogenicity, or carcinogenicity.
(ii) The performance of an IND or NDA review or similar review.
(2) A committee member who undertakes a special assignment, the end product of which does not represent the end product of the advisory committee, but rather of the committee member's own assignment, can be compensated. Should this preparatory work by members collectively result in an end product of the committee, this is to be considered normal meeting preparation and committee members are not to be compensated for this work.
(d) Salary while in travel status is authorized when a committee member's ordinary pursuits are interrupted for the substantial portion of an additional day beyond the day or days spent in performing those services, and as a consequence the committee member loses some regular compensation. This applies on weekends and holidays if the special Government employee loses income that would otherwise be earned on that day. For travel purposes, a substantial portion of a day is defined as 50 percent of the working day, and the traveler will be paid at a daily rate.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 50949, Dec. 19, 1988]

# Subpart F—Standing Advisory Committees
§ 14.100
List of standing advisory committees.
Standing advisory committees and the dates of their establishment are as follows:
(a)
Office of the Commissioner
—(1)
Science Board to the Food and Drug Administration.
(i) Date established: June 26, 1992.
(ii) Function: The board shall provide advice primarily to the agency's Senior Science Advisor and, as needed, to the Commissioner and other appropriate officials on specific complex and technical issues as well as emerging issues within the scientific community in industry and academia. Additionally, the board will provide advice to the agency on keeping pace with technical and scientific evolutions in the fields of regulatory science; on formulating an appropriate research agenda; and on upgrading its scientific and research facilities to keep pace with these changes. It will also provide the means for critical review of agency sponsored intramural and extramural scientific research programs.
(2)
Pediatric Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: June 18, 2004.
(ii) Function: Advises on pediatric therapeutics, pediatric research, and other matters involving pediatrics for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility.
(3)
Risk Communication Advisory Committee.
(i) Date rechartered: July 9, 2009.
(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates strategies and programs designed to communicate with the public about the risks and benefits of FDA-regulated products so as to facilitate optimal use of these products. The committee also reviews and evaluates research relevant to such communication to the public by both FDA and other entities. It also facilitates interactively sharing risk and benefit information with the public to enable people to make informed independent judgments about use of FDA-regulated products.
(4)
Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee.
(i) Date Established: August 12, 2009.
(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates safety, dependence, and health issues relating to tobacco products and provides appropriate advice, information, and recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Specifically, the committee will submit reports and recommendations on tobacco-related topics, including: The impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African Americans, Hispanics and other racial and ethnic minorities; the nature and
impact of the use of dissolvable tobacco products on the public health, including such use on children; the effects of the alteration of nicotine yields from tobacco products and whether there is a threshold level below which nicotine yields do not produce dependence on the tobacco product involved; and any application submitted by a manufacturer for a modified risk tobacco product. The committee may provide recommendations to the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding any regulations to be issued under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and may review any applications for new tobacco products or petitions for exemption under section 906(e) of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. The committee may consider and provide recommendations on any other matter as provided in the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act.
(b)
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research
—(1)
Cellular, Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: October 28, 1988.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data relating to the safety, effectiveness, and appropriate use of human cells, human tissues, gene transfer therapies and xenotransplantation products which are intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion, and transfer in the prevention and treatment of a broad spectrum of human diseases and in the reconstruction, repair or replacement of tissues for various conditions. The Committee also considers the quality and relevance of FDA's research program which provides scientific support for the regulation of these products, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(2)
Blood Products Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: May 13, 1980.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness, and appropriate use of blood products intended for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of human diseases.
(3)
Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee
—
(i) Date established: December 31, 1979.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of vaccines intended for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of human diseases.
(c)
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
—(1)
Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: May 1, 1978.
(ii)
Function:
Reviews and evaluates data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products including analgesics,
e.g.,
abuse-deterrent opioids, novel analgesics, and issues related to opioid abuse, and those for use in anesthesiology.
(2)
Antimicrobial Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: October 7, 1980.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the treatment of infectious diseases and disorders.
(3)
Arthritis Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: April 5, 1974.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in arthritic conditions.
(4)
Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: August 27, 1970.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in cardiovascular and renal disorders.
(5)
Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: October 7, 1980.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the treatment of dermatologic and ophthalmic disorders.
(6)
Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: May 31, 1978.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on risk management plans, provides active surveillance methodologies, trademark studies, methodologies
for risk management communication, and related issues.
(7)
Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: August 27, 1970.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in endocrine and metabolic disorders.
(8)
Obstetrics, Reproductive and Urologic Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: March 23, 1978.
(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the practice of obstetrics, gynecology, urology and related specialties, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(9)
Gastrointestinal Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: March 3, 1978.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in gastrointestinal diseases.
(10)
Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: September 1, 1978.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in treatment of cancer.
(11)
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: June 4, 1974.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in neurological disease.
(12)
Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: June 4, 1974.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in the practice of psychiatry and related fields.
(13)
Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: February 17, 1972.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in the treatment of pulmonary disease and diseases with allergic and/or immunologic mechanisms.
(14)
Medical Imaging Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: May 18, 2011.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures using radioactive pharmaceuticals and contrast media used in diagnostic radiology.
(15)
Pharmaceutical Science and Clinical Pharmacology Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: January 22, 1990.
(ii) Function: The committee shall provide advice on scientific, clinical and technical issues related to safety and effectiveness of drug products for use in the treatment of a broad spectrum of human diseases, the quality characteristics which such drugs purport or are represented to have and as required, any other product for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility, and make appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. The Committee may also review agency sponsored intramural and extramural biomedical research programs in support of FDA's drug regulatory responsibilities and its critical path initiatives related to improving the efficacy and safety of drugs and improving the efficiency of drug development.
(16)
Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: August 27, 1991.
(ii) Functions: The committee reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of over-the-counter (nonprescription) human drug products for use in the treatment of a broad spectrum of human symptoms and diseases.
(17)
Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee.
(i) Date re-established: April 25, 2012.
(ii) Function: Provides advice on scientific, technical, and medical issues concerning drug compounding under sections 503A and 503B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and, as required, any other product for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility, and makes
appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(18)
Genetic Metabolic Diseases Advisory Committee.
(i) Date Established: December 12, 2023.
(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug and biologic products for use in the treatment of genetic metabolic diseases and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(d)
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
—(1)
Medical Devices Advisory Committee.
(i)
Date established:
October 27, 1990.
(ii)
Function:
Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation.
(2)
Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: May 17, 1987.
(ii) Function: Reviews proposed regulations for good manufacturing practices governing the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, packing, storage, and installation of devices, and makes recommendations on the feasibility and reasonableness of the proposed regulations.
(3)
Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee.
(i) Date established: October 18, 1968.
(ii) Function: Advises on technical feasibility, reasonableness, and practicability of performance standards for electronic products to control the emission of radiation under 42 U.S.C. 263f(f)(1)(A).
(4)
National Mammography Quality Assurance Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: July 6, 1993.
(ii) Function: Advises on developing appropriate quality standards and regulations for the use of mammography facilities.
(5)
Patient Engagement Advisory Committee.
(i) Date Established: October 6, 2015.
(ii) Function: Provides advice to the Commissioner on complex issues relating to medical devices, the regulation of devices, and their use by patients. Agency guidance and policies, clinical trial or registry design, patient preference study design, benefit-risk determinations, device labeling, unmet clinical needs, available alternatives, patient reported outcomes, and device-related quality of life or health status issues are among the topics that may be considered by the Committee. The Committee provides relevant skills and perspectives in order to improve communication of benefits, risks, and clinical outcomes, and increase integration of patient perspectives into the regulatory process for medical devices. It performs its duties by identifying new approaches, promoting innovation, recognizing unforeseen risks or barriers, and identifying unintended consequences that could result from FDA policy.
(6) Digital Health Advisory Committee.
(i) Date established: October 11, 2023.
(ii) Function: Advises the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or designee in discharging responsibilities as they relate to ensuring that digital health technologies (DHTs) intended for use as a stand-alone medical product, as part of a medical product, or as a companion, complement, or adjunct to a medical product are safe and effective for human use.
[54 FR 9036, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 14.100, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart G—Technical Electronic Products Radiation Safety Standards Committee
§ 14.120
Establishment of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC).
The Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC), consisting of 15 members, is established in accordance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)(1)(A)) to provide consultation before the Commissioner
prescribes any performance standard for an electronic product.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]
§ 14.122
Functions of TEPRSSC.
(a) In performing its function of advising the Commissioner, TEPRSSC—
(1) May propose electronic product radiation safety standards to the Commissioner for consideration;
(2) Provides consultation to the Commissioner on all performance standards proposed for consideration under 21 U.S.C. 360kk; and
(3) May make recommendations to the Commissioner on any other matters it deems necessary or appropriate in fulfilling the purposes of the act.
(b) Responsibility for action on performance standards under 21 U.S.C. 360kk rests with the Commissioner, after receiving the advice of TEPRSSC.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]
§ 14.125
Procedures of TEPRSSC.
(a) When the Commissioner is considering promulgation of a performance standard for an electronic product, or an amendment of an existing standard, before issuing a proposed regulation in the
Federal Register
the Commissioner will submit to TEPRSSC the proposed standard or amendment under consideration, together with other relevant information to aid TEPRSSC in its deliberations.
(b) The agenda and other material to be considered at any meeting will be sent to members whenever possible at least 2 weeks before the meeting.
(c) Ten members constitute a quorum, provided at least three members are present from each group specified in 21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)(1)(A) and in § 14.127(a), i.e., Government, industry, and the public.
(d) The Chairperson of TEPRSSC will ordinarily submit a report to the Commissioner of the committee's consideration of any proposed performance standard for an electronic product within 60 days after consideration. If the Chairperson believes that more time is needed, the Chairperson will inform the Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health in writing, in which case an additional 30 days will be allowed to make the report.
(e) Sections 14.1 through 14.7 apply to TEPRSSC, except where other provisions are specifically included in §§ 14.120 through 14.130.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]
§ 14.127
Membership of TEPRSSC.
(a) The Commissioner will appoint the members after consultation with public and private organizations concerned with the technical aspect of electronic product radiation safety. TEPRSSC consists of 15 members, each of whom is technically qualified by training and experienced in one or more fields of science or engineering applicable to electronic product radiation safety, as follows:
(1) Five members selected from government agencies, including State and Federal Governments.
(2) Five members selected from the affected industries after consultation with industry representatives.
(3) Five members selected from the general public, of whom at least one shall be a representative of organized labor.
(b) The Commissioner will appoint a committee member as Chairperson of TEPRSSC.
(c) Appointments of members are for a term of 3 years or as specified by the Commissioner.
(1) The Chairperson is appointed for a term concurrent with the Chairperson's term as a member of TEPRSSC. If the Chairpersonship becomes vacant without adequate notice, the Designated Federal Officer may appoint a committee member as temporary Chairperson pending appointment of a new Chairperson by the Commissioner.
(2) Members may not be reappointed for a second consecutive full term.
(d) A person otherwise qualified for membership is not eligible for selection as a member of TEPRSSC from Government agencies or the general public if the Commissioner determines that the person does not meet the requirements of the conflict of interest laws and regulations.
(e) Retention of membership is conditioned upon the following:
(1) Continued status as a member of the group from which the member was selected as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Absence of any conflict of interest during the term of membership as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Active participation in TEPRSSC activities.
(f) Appointment as a member of TEPRSSC is conditioned on certification that the prospective member:
(1) Agrees to the procedures and criteria specified in this subpart.
(2) Has no conflict of interest as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Will notify the Designated Federal Officer of TEPRSSC before any change in representative status on TEPRSSC which may be contrary to the conditions of the appointment.
(g) Members of TEPRSSC who are not full-time officers or employees of the United States receive compensation under § 14.95, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 210(c).
§ 14.130
Conduct of TEPRSSC meeting; availability of TEPRSSC records.
(a) In accordance with 21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)(1)(B), all proceedings of TEPRSSC are recorded, and the record of each proceeding is available for public inspection.
(b) All proceedings of TEPRSSC are open except when the Commissioner has determined, under § 14.27, that a portion of a meeting may be closed.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013]

# Subpart H—Color Additive Advisory Committees
§ 14.140
Establishment of a color additive advisory committee.
The Commissioner will establish a color additive advisory committee under the following circumstances:
(a) The Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it would be in the public interest for a color additive advisory committee to review and make recommendations about the safety of a color additive on which important issues are pending before FDA and for interested persons to present information and views at an oral public hearing before a color additive advisory committee.
(b) There is an issue arising under section 721(b)(5)(B) of the FD
C Act concerning the safety of a color additive, including its potential or actual carcinogenicity, that requires the exercise of scientific judgment and a person who would be adversely affected by the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a regulation listing a color additive requests that the matter, or the Commissioner as a matter of discretion determines that the matter should, be referred to a color additive advisory committee.
(1) Paragraph (b) does not apply to any issue arising under the transitional provisions in section 203 of the Color Additive Amendments of 1960 relating to provisional listing of commercially established colors. A color additive advisory committee to consider any such matter will be established under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) A request for establishment of a color additive advisory committee is to be made in accordance with § 10.30. The Commissioner may deny any petition if inadequate grounds are stated for establishing a color additive advisory committee. A request for establishment of a color additive advisory committee may not rest on mere allegations or denials, but must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine and substantial issue of fact that requires scientific judgment and justifies a hearing before a color additive advisory committee. When it conclusively appears from the request for a color additive advisory committee that the matter is premature or that it does not involve an issue arising under section 721(b)(5)(B) of the FD
C Act or that there is no genuine and substantial issue of fact requiring scientific judgment, or for any other reason a color additive advisory committee is not justified, the Commissioner may deny the establishment of a color additive advisory committee.
(3) Establishment of a color additive advisory committee on the request of an interested person is conditioned upon receipt of the application fee specified in § 14.155.
(4) Any person adversely affected may request referral of the matter to a color additive advisory committee at any time before, or within 30 days after, publication of an order of the Commissioner acting upon a color additive petition or proposal.
§ 14.142
Functions of a color additive advisory committee.
(a) A color additive advisory committee reviews all available information relating to the matter referred to it, including all information contained in any pertinent color additive petition and in FDA files. All information reviewed is placed on public display and is available for review at the office of the Dockets Management Staff.
(b) The Commissioner specifies to the color additive advisory committee, in writing, the issues on which review and recommendations are requested.
(c) The date of the first meeting of a color additive advisory committee, following receipt of the administrative record by each of the committee members, is designated as the beginning of the period allowed for consideration of the matter by the committee. Within 60 days after the first meeting, unless the time is extended as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Chairperson of the committee shall certify to the Commissioner the report containing the recommendations of the committee, including any minority report. The report states the recommendations of the committee and the reasons or basis for them. The report includes copies of all material considered by the committee in addition to the administrative record furnished to it.
(d) If the Chairperson concludes that the color additive advisory committee needs additional time, the Chairperson shall so inform the Commissioner in writing and may certify the report of the committee to the Commissioner within 90 days instead of 60 days.
(e) More than one matter may be handled concurrently by a color additive advisory committee.
§ 14.145
Procedures of a color additive advisory committee.
(a) A color additive advisory committee is subject to all the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and this part.
(b) All interested persons have a right to consult with the color additive advisory committee reviewing a matter and to submit information and views to a color additive advisory committee, in accordance with the procedures in this part.
§ 14.147
Membership of a color additive advisory committee.
(a) The members of a color additive advisory committee are selected in the following manner:
(1) If a color additive advisory committee is established for purposes that do not include review of an issue arising under section 721(b)(5)(B) of the act, or is established on the initiative of the Commissioner, the Commissioner may use the procedure in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to select the members or may use an existing standing advisory committee listed in § 14.100, or may establish a new advisory committee under this subpart. Once the Commissioner has established a color additive advisory committee under this paragraph and has referred to it a matter relating to a color additive, no interested person may subsequently request that an additional or different color additive advisory committee be established to review and make recommendations about that color additive.
(2) If the Commissioner established a color additive advisory committee to review an issue arising under section 721(b)(5)(B) of the FD
C Act on the request of an interested person, it shall be established under the following requirements:
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section, the Commissioner will request the National Academy of Sciences to select the members of a color additive advisory committee from among experts qualified in the subject matter to be reviewed by the committee, and of adequately diversified professional backgrounds. The Commissioner will appoint one of the members as the Chairperson.
(ii) If the National Academy of Sciences is unable or refuses to select
the members of a color additive advisory committee, the Commissioner will select the members.
(iii) If the Commissioner and the requesting party agree, section 721(b)(5)(D) of the FD
C Act may be waived and the matter may be referred to any standing advisory committee listed in § 14.100 or to any advisory committee established under any other procedure that is mutually agreeable. Once the Commissioner has established a color additive advisory committee and has referred to it a matter relating to a color additive, no interested person may subsequently request that an additional or different color additive advisory committee be established to review and make recommendations about that color additive.
(b) Members of a color additive advisory committee are subject to the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and this subpart, except that no member of a color additive advisory committee may by reason of such membership alone be a special government employee or be subject to the conflict of interest laws and regulations.
§ 14.155
Fees and compensation pertaining to a color additive advisory committee.
(a) When a matter is referred to a color additive advisory committee, all related costs, including personal compensation of committee members, travel, materials, and other costs, are borne by the person requesting the referral, such costs to be assessed on the basis of actual cost to the government. The compensation of such costs includes personal compensation of committee members at a rate not to exceed $128.80 per member per day.
(b) In the case of a request for referral to a color additive advisory committee, a special advance deposit is to be made in the amount of $2,500. Where required, further advances in increments of $2,500 each are to be made upon request of the Commissioner. All deposits for referrals to a color additive advisory committee in excess of actual expenses will be refunded to the depositor.
(c) All deposits and fees required by this section are to be paid by money order, bank draft, or certified check drawn to the order of the Food and Drug Administration, collectible at par in Washington, DC. All deposits and fees are to be forwarded to the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations, Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, and after appropriate record of them is made, they will be transmitted to the Treasurer of the United States for deposit in the special account “Salaries and Expenses, Certification, Inspection, and Other Services, Food and Drug Administration.”
(d) The Commissioner may waive or refund such fees in whole or in part when, in the Commissioner's judgment, such action will promote the public interest. Any person who believes that payment of these fees will be a hardship may petition the Commissioner under § 10.30 to waive or refund the fees.

# Subpart I—Advisory Committees for Human Prescription Drugs
§ 14.160
Establishment of standing technical advisory committees for human prescription drugs.
The standing technical advisory committees for human prescription drugs are established to advise the Commissioner:
(a) Generally on the safety and effectiveness, including the labeling and advertising, and regulatory control of the human prescription drugs falling within the pharmacologic class covered by the advisory committee and on the scientific standards appropriate for a determination of safety and effectiveness in that class of drugs.
(b) Specifically on any particular matter involving a human prescription drug pending before FDA, including whether the available information is adequate to support a determination that—
(1) A particular IND study may properly be conducted;
(2) A particular drug meets the statutory standard for proof of safety and effectiveness necessary for approval or continued approval for marketing; or
(3) A particular drug is properly classified as a new drug, an old drug, or a banned drug.
§ 14.171
Utilization of an advisory committee on the initiative of FDA.
(a) Any matter involving a human prescription drug under review within the agency may, in the discretion of the Commissioner, be the subject of a public hearing and continuing or periodic review by the appropriate standing technical advisory committee for human prescription drugs. The Commissioner's determinations on the agenda of the committee are based upon the priorities of the various matters pending before the agency which fall within the pharmacologic class covered by that committee.
(b) High priority for such hearing and review by the appropriate standing technical advisory committee for human prescription drugs are given to the following types of human prescription drugs:
(1) Investigational drugs which are potential therapeutic advances over currently marketed products from the standpoint of safety or effectiveness, or which pose significant safety hazards, or which present narrow benefit-risk considerations requiring a close judgmental decision on approval for marketing, or which have a novel delivery system or formulation, or which are the subject of major scientific or public controversy, or which may be subject to special regulatory requirements such as a limitation on clinical trials, a patient followup requirement, postmarketing Phase IV studies, distributional controls, or boxed warnings.
(2) Marketed drugs for which an important new use has been discovered or which pose newly discovered safety hazards, or which are the subject of major scientific or public controversy, or which may be subject to important regulatory actions such as withdrawal of approval for marketing, boxed warnings, distributional controls, or newly required scientific studies.
(c) The committee may request the Commissioner for an opportunity to hold a public hearing and to review any matter involving a human prescription drug which falls within the pharmacologic class covered by the committee. The Commissioner may, after consulting with the committee on such request, grant or deny the request in light of the priorities of the other matters pending before the committee. Whenever feasible, consistent with the other work of the committee, the request will be granted.
(d) For a drug that meets any of the criteria established in paragraph (b) of this section, one or more members of or consultants to the appropriate advisory committee may be selected for more detailed monitoring of the matter and consultation with FDA on behalf of the committee. The member or consultant may be invited to attend appropriate meetings and shall assist the center in any briefing of the committee on that matter.
(e) An advisory committee may obtain advice and recommendations from other agency advisory committees, consultants, and experts which the advisory committee and the center conclude would facilitate the work of the advisory committee.
(f) Presentation of all relevant information about the matter will be made in open session unless it relates to an IND the existence of which has not previously been disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 or is otherwise prohibited from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced therein. Sections 314.430 and 601.51 determine whether, and the extent to which, relevant information may be made available for public disclosure, summarized and discussed in open session but not otherwise made available for public disclosure, or not in any way discussed or disclosed in open session or otherwise disclosed to the public.
[44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 14.172
Utilization of an advisory committee at the request of an interested person.
Any interested person may request, under § 10.30, that a specific matter relating to a particular human prescription drug be submitted to an appropriate advisory committee for a hearing and review and recommendations. The request must demonstrate the importance of the matter and the reasons why it should be submitted for a hearing at that time. The Commissioner may grant or deny the request.
§ 14.174
Advice and recommendations in writing.
Advice and recommendations given by a committee on a specific drug or a class of drugs are ordinarily in the form of a written report. The report may consist of the approved minutes of the meeting or a separate written report. The report responds to the specific issues or questions which the Commissioner has addressed to the advisory committee, and states the basis of the advice and recommendations of the committee.
Pt. 15

# PART 15—PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THE COMMISSIONER

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
15.1
Scope.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Public Hearing Before the Commissioner
15.20
Notice of a public hearing before the Commissioner.
15.21
Notice of participation; schedule for hearing.
15.25
Written submissions.
15.30
Conduct of a public hearing before the Commissioner.

# Subpart C—Records of a Public Hearing Before the Commissioner
15.40
Administrative record.
15.45
Examination of administrative record.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 553; 15 U.S.C. 1451-1461; 21 U.S.C. 141-149, 321-393, 467f, 679, 821, 1034; 28 U.S.C. 2112; 42 U.S.C. 201, 262, 263b-263n, 264.

# Source:
44 FR 22366, Apr. 13, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 15 appear at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 15.1
Scope.
The procedures in this part apply when:
(a) The Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it is in the public interest to permit persons to present information and views at a public hearing on any matter pending before the Food and Drug Administation.
(b) The act or regulation specifically provides for a public hearing before the Commissioner on a matter, e.g., § 330.10(a)(8) relating to over-the-counter drugs and sections 520 (b) and (f)(1)(B), and 521 of the act relating to proposals to allow persons to order custom devices, to proposed device good manufacturing practice regulations, and to proposed exemptions from preemption of State and local device requirements under § 808.25(e).
(c) A person who has right to an opportunity for a formal evidentiary public hearing under part 12 waives that opportunity and instead requests under § 12.32 a public hearing before the Commissioner, and the Commissioner, as a matter of discretion, accepts the request.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Public Hearing Before the Commissioner
§ 15.20
Notice of a public hearing before the Commissioner.
(a) If the Commissioner determines that a public hearing should be held on a matter, the Commissioner will publish a notice of hearing in the
Federal Register
setting forth the following information:
(1) If the hearing is under § 15.1 (a) or (b), the notice will state the following:
(i) The purpose of the hearing and the subject matter to be considered. If a written document is to be the subject matter of the hearing, it will be published as part of the notice, or reference made to it if it has already been published in the
Federal Register,
or the notice will state that the document is available from an agency office identified in the notice.
(ii) The time, date, and place of the hearing, or a statement that the information will be contained in a subsequent notice.
(2) If the hearing is in lieu of a formal evidentiary public hearing under § 15.1(c), all of the information described in § 12.32(e).
(b) The scope of the hearing is determined by the notice of hearing and any regulation under which the hearing is held. If a regulation, e.g., § 330.10(a)(10), limits a hearing to review of an existing administrative record, information
not already in the record may not be considered at the hearing.
(c) The notice of hearing may require participants to submit the text of their presentations in advance of the hearing if the Commissioner determines that advance submissions are necessary for the panel to formulate useful questions to be posed at the hearing under § 15.30(e). The notice may provide for the submission of a comprehensive outline as an alternative to the submission of the text if the Commissioner determines that submission of an outline will be sufficient.
[44 FR 22366, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 26375, June 18, 1982]
§ 15.21
Notice of participation; schedule for hearing.
(a) The notice of hearing will provide persons an opportunity to file a written notice of participation with the Dockets Management Staff within a specified period of time containing the information specified in the notice, e.g., name of participant, address, phone number, affiliation, if any, topic of presentation and approximate amount of time requested for the presentation. If the public interest requires, e.g., a hearing is to be conducted within a short period of time or is to be primarily attended by individuals without an organizational affiliation, the notice may name a specific FDA employee and telephone number to whom an oral notice of participation may be given or provide for submitting notices of participation at the time of the hearing. A written or oral notice of participation must be received by the designated person by the close of business of the day specified in the notice.
(b) Promptly after expiration of the time for filing a notice, the Commissioner will determine the amount of time allotted to each person and the approximate time that oral presentation is scheduled to begin. If more than one hearing is held on the same subject, a person will ordinarily be allotted time for a presentation at only one hearing.
(c) Individuals and organizations with common interests are urged to consolidate or coordinate their presentations and to request time for a joint presentation. The Commissioner may require joint presentations by persons with common interests.
(d) The Commissioner will prepare a hearing schedule showing the persons making oral presentations and the time alloted to each person, which will be filed with the Dockets Management Staff and mailed or telephoned before the hearing to each participant.
(e) The hearing schedule will state whether participants must be present by a specified time to be sure to be heard in case the absence of participants advances the schedule.
§ 15.25
Written submissions.
A person may submit information or views on the subject of the hearing in writing to the Dockets Management Staff, under § 10.20. The record of the hearing will remain open for 15 days after the hearing is held for any additional written submissions, unless the notice of the hearing specifies otherwise or the presiding officer rules otherwise.
§ 15.30
Conduct of a public hearing before the Commissioner.
(a) The Commissioner or a designee may preside at the hearing, except where a regulation provides that the Commissioner will preside personally. The presiding officer may be accompanied by other FDA employees or other Federal Government employees designated by the Commissioner, who may serve as a panel in conducting the hearing.
(b) The hearing will be transcribed.
(c) Persons may use their alloted time in whatever way they wish, consistent with a reasonable and orderly hearing. A person may be accompanied by any number of additional persons, and may present any written information or views for inclusion in the record of the hearing, subject to the requirements of § 15.25. The presiding officer may allot additional time to any person when the officer concludes that it is in the public interest, but may not reduce the time allotted for any person without the consent of the person.
(d) If a person is not present at the time specified for the presentation, the persons following will appear in order, with adjustments for those appearing at their scheduled time. An attempt
will be made to hear any person who is late at the conclusion of the hearing. Other interested persons attending the hearing who did not request an opportunity to make an oral presentation will be given an opportunity to make an oral presentation at the conclusion of the hearing, in the discretion of the presiding officer, to the extent that time permits.
(e) The presiding officer and any other persons serving on a panel may question any person during or at the conclusion of the presentation. No other person attending the hearing may question a person making a presentation. The presiding officer may, as a matter of discretion, permit questions to be submitted to the presiding officer or panel for response by them or by persons attending the hearing.
(f) The hearing is informal in nature, and the rules of evidence do not apply. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views may be made or considered, but other participants may comment upon or rebut all such information and views. No participant may interrupt the presentation of another participant at any hearing for any reason.
(g) The hearing may end early only if all persons scheduled for a later presentation have already appeared or it is past the time specified in the hearing schedule, under § 15.21(e), by which participants must be present.
(h) The Commissioner or the presiding officer may, under § 10.19, suspend, modify, or waive any provision of this part.

# Subpart C—Records of a Public Hearing Before the Commissioner
§ 15.40
Administrative record.
(a) The administrative record of a public hearing before the Commissioner consists of the following:
(1) All relevant
Federal Register
notices, including any documents to which they refer.
(2) All written submissions under § 15.25.
(3) The transcript of the oral hearing.
(b) The record of the administrative proceeding will be closed at the time specified in § 15.25.
§ 15.45
Examination of administrative record.
Section 10.20(j) governs the availability for public examination and copying of each document in the administrative record of the hearing
Pt. 16

# PART 16—REGULATORY HEARING BEFORE THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
16.1
Scope.
16.5
Inapplicability and limited applicability.

# Subpart B—Initiation of Proceedings
16.22
Initiation of regulatory hearing.
16.24
Regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation.
16.26
Denial of hearing and summary decision.

# Subpart C—Commissioner and Presiding Officer
16.40
Commissioner.
16.42
Presiding officer.
16.44
Communication to presiding officer and Commissioner.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Regulatory Hearing
16.60
Hearing procedure.
16.62
Right to counsel.

# Subpart E—Administrative Record and Decision
16.80
Administrative record of a regulatory hearing.
16.85
Examination of administrative record.
16.95
Administrative decision and record for decision.

# Subpart F—Reconsideration and Stay
16.119
Reconsideration and stay of action.

# Subpart G—Judicial Review
16.120
Judicial review.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1451-1461; 21 U.S.C. 141-149, 321-394, 467f, 679, 821, 1034; 28 U.S.C. 2112; 42 U.S.C. 201-262, 263b, 364.

# Source:
44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 16.1
Scope.
The procedures in this part apply when:
(a) The Commissioner is considering any regulatory action, including a refusal to act, and concludes, as a matter of discretion, on the Commissioner's initiative or at the suggestion of any person, to offer an opportunity for a regulatory hearing to obtain additional information before making a decision or taking action.
(b) The act or a regulation provides a person with an opportunity for a hearing on a regulatory action, including proposed action, and the act or a regulation either specifically provides an opportunity for a regulatory hearing under this part or provides an opportunity for a hearing for which no procedures are specified by regulation. Listed below are the statutory and regulatory provisions under which regulatory hearings are available:
(1) The statutory provisions are as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)
Section 304(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the administrative detention of devices and drugs (see §§ 800.55(g) and 1.980(g) of this chapter).
Section 304(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the administrative detention of food for human or animal consumption (see part 1, subpart k of this chapter).
Section 419(c)(2)(D) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the modification or revocation of a variance from the requirements of section 419 (see part 112, subpart P of this chapter).
Section 515(e)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the proposed withdrawal of approval of a device premarket approval application.
Section 515(e)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the temporary suspension of approval of a premarket approval application.
Section 515(f)(6) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to a proposed order revoking a device product development protocol or declaring a protocol not completed.
Section 515(f)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to revocation of a notice of completion of a product development protocol.
Section 516(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act regarding a proposed regulation to ban a medical device with a special effective date.
Section 518(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to a determination that a device is subject to a repair, replacement, or refund order or that a correction plan, or revised correction plan, submitted by a manufacturer, importer, or distributor is inadequate.
Section 518(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to a cease distribution and notification order or mandatory recall order concerning a medical device for human use.
Section 520(f)(2)(D) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to exemptions or variances from device current good manufacturing practice requirements (see § 820.1(d)).
Section 520(g)(4) and (g)(5) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to disapproval and withdrawal of approval of an application from an investigational device exemption (see §§ 812.19(c), 812.30(c), 813.30(d), and 813.35(c) of this chapter).
Section 903(a)(8)(B)(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the misbranding of tobacco products.
Section 906(e)(2)(E) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to exemptions or variances from tobacco product manufacturing practice requirements.
Section 910(d)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the withdrawal of an order allowing a new tobacco product to be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce.
Section 911(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the withdrawal of an order allowing a modified risk tobacco product to be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce.
(2) Regulatory provisions:
§§ 1.634 and 1.664, relating to revocation of recognition of an accreditation body and
withdrawal of accreditation of third-party certification bodies that conduct food safety audits of eligible entities in the food import supply chain and issue food and facility certifications.
§ 1.1173, relating to the revocation of recognition of an accreditation body, and the disqualification of a laboratory, with respect to food testing conducted under part 1, subpart R of this chapter.
§ 1.1174, relating to the issuance of a directed food laboratory order by FDA pursuant to § 1.1108.
§ 56.121(a), relating to disqualifying an institutional review board or an institution.
§ 58.204(b), relating to disqualifying a testing facility.
§ 71.37(a), relating to use of food containing a color additive.
§ 80.31(b), relating to refusal to certify a batch of a color additive.
§ 80.34(b), relating to suspension of certification service for a color additive.
§ 99.401(c), relating to a due diligence determination concerning the conduct of studies necessary for a supplemental application for a new use of a drug or device.
§§ 112.201 through 112.213, (see part 112, subpart R of this chapter), relating to withdrawal of a qualified exemption.
§§ 117.251 through 117.287 (part 117, subpart E of this chapter), relating to withdrawal of a qualified facility exemption.
§ 130.17(1), relating to a temporary permit to vary from a food standard.
§ 170.17(b), relating to use of food containing an investigational food additive.
§ 202.1(j)(5), relating to approval of prescription drug advertisements.
§ 312.70, relating to whether an investigator is eligible to receive test articles under part 312 of this chapter and eligible to conduct any clinical investigation that supports an application for a research or marketing permit for products regulated by FDA, including drugs, biologics, devices, new animal drugs, foods, including dietary supplements, that bear a nutrient content claim or a health claim, infant formulas, food and color additives, and tobacco products.
§ 312.70(d) and 312.44, relating to termination of an IND for a sponsor.
§ 312.160(b), relating to termination of an IND for tests in vitro and in laboratory research animals for a sponsor.
§§ 507.60 through 507.85 (part 507, subpart D of this chapter) relating to withdrawal of a qualified facility exemption.
§ 511.1(b)(5), relating to use of food containing an investigational new animal drug.
§ 511.1 (c)(1), relating to whether an investigator is eligible to receive test articles under part 511 of this chapter and eligible to conduct any clinical investigation that supports an application for a research or marketing permit for products regulated by FDA including drugs, biologics, devices, new animal drugs, foods, including dietary supplements, that bear a nutrient content claim or a health claim, infant formulas, food and color additives, and tobacco products; and any nonclinical laboratory study intended to support an application for a research or marketing permit for a new animal drug.
§ 511.1(c) (4) and (d), relating to termination of an INAD for a sponsor.
§ 812.119, relating to whether an investigator is eligible to receive test articles under part 812 of this chapter and eligible to conduct any clinical investigation that supports an application for a research or marketing permit for products regulated by FDA including drugs, biologics, devices, new animal drugs, foods, including dietary supplements, that bear a nutrient content claim or a health claim, infant formulas, food and color additives, and tobacco products.
§ 814.46(c) relating to withdrawal of approval of a device premarket approval application.
§ 822.7(a)(3), relating to an order to conduct postmarket surveillance of a medical device under section 522 of the act.
§ 830.130, relating to suspension or revocation of the accreditation of an issuing agency.
§ 895.30(c), regarding a proposed regulation to ban a medical device with a special effective date.
§ 900.7, relating to approval, reapproval, or withdrawal of approval of mammography accreditation bodies or rejection of a proposed fee for accreditation.
§ 900.14, relating to suspension or revocation of a mammography certificate.
§ 900.25, relating to approval or withdrawal of approval of certification agencies.
§ 1003.11(a)(3), relating to the failure of an electronic product to comply with an applicable standard or to a defect in an electronic product.
§ 1003.31(d), relating to denial of an exemption from notification requirements for an electronic product which fails to comply with an applicable standard or has a defect.
§ 1004.6, relating to plan for repurchase, repair, or replacement of an electronic product.
§ 1107.1(d), relating to rescission of an exemption from the requirement of demonstrating substantial equivalence for a tobacco product.
§ 1107.50, relating to rescission of an order finding a tobacco product substantially equivalent.
§ 1210.30, relating to denial, suspension, or revocation of a permit under the Federal Import Milk Act.
§ 1270.43(e), relating to the retention, recall, and destruction of human tissue.
§ 1271.440(e) relating to the retention, recall, and destruction of human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products (HCT/Ps), and/or the cessation of manufacturing HCT/Ps.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 16.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 16.1 were published at 89 FR 51766, June 18, 2024, and at 89 FR 83781, Oct. 18, 2024, are effective Dec. 18, 2025.
§ 16.5
Inapplicability and limited applicability.
(a) This part does not apply to the following:
(1) Informal presentation of views before reporting a criminal violation under section 305 of the act and section 5 of the Federal Import Milk Act and § 1210.31.
(2) A hearing on a refusal of admission of a food, drug, device, or cosmetic under section 801(a) of the act and § 1.94, or of an electronic product under section 360(a) of the Public Health Service Act and § 1005.20.
(3) Factory inspections, recalls (except mandatory recalls of medical devices intended for human use), regulatory letters, and similar compliance activities related to law enforcement.
(4) A hearing on an order for relabeling, diversion, or destruction of shell eggs under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 264) and §§ 101.17(h) and 115.50 of this chapter.
(5) A hearing on an order for diversion or destruction of shell eggs under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 264), and § 118.12 of this chapter.
(b) If a regulation provides a person with an opportunity for hearing and specifies some procedures for the hearing but not a comprehensive set of procedures, the procedures in this part apply to the extent that they are supplementary and not in conflict with the other procedures specified for the hearing. Thus, the procedures in subpart A of part 108 relating to emergency permit control are supplemented by the nonconflicting procedures in this part, e.g., the right to counsel, public notice of the hearing, reconsideration and stay, and judicial review.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 57 FR 58403, Dec. 10, 1992; 65 FR 76110, Dec. 5, 2000; 74 FR 33095, July 9, 2009; 89 FR 83781, Oct. 18, 2024]

# Subpart B—Initiation of Proceedings
§ 16.22
Initiation of regulatory hearing.
(a) A regulatory hearing is initiated by a notice of opportunity for hearing from FDA. The notice will—
(1) Be sent by mail, telegram, telex, personal delivery, or any other mode of written communication;
(2) Specify the facts and the action that are the subject of the opportunity for a hearing;
(3) State that the notice of opportunity for hearing and the hearing are governed by this part; and
(4) State the time within which a hearing may be requested, and state the name, address, and telephone number of the FDA employee to whom any request for hearing is to be addressed.
(5) Refer to FDA's guideline on electronic media coverage of its administrative proceedings (21 CFR part 10, subpart C).
(b) A person offered an opportunity for a hearing has the amount of time specified in the notice, which may not be less than 3 working days after receipt of the notice, within which to request a hearing. The request may be filed by mail, telegram, telex, personal delivery, or any other mode of written communication, addressed to the designated FDA employee. If no response is filed within that time, the offer is deemed to have been refused and no hearing will be held.
(c) If a hearing is requested, the Commissioner will designate a presiding officer, and the hearing will take place at a time and location agreed upon by the party requesting the hearing, the FDA, and the presiding officer or, if agreement cannot be reached, at a reasonable time and location designated by the presiding officer.
(d) A notice of opportunity for hearing under this section will not operate to delay or stay any administrative action, including enforcement action by
the agency unless the Commissioner, as a matter of discretion, determines that delay or a stay is in the public interest.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 32173, Aug. 13, 1984]
§ 16.24
Regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation.
(a) A regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation under § 16.1(b) will be initiated in the same manner as other regulatory hearings subject to the additional procedures in this section.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The notice will state whether any action concerning the matter that is the subject of the opportunity for hearing is or is not being taken pending the hearing under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) The Commissioner may take such action pending a hearing under this section as the Commissioner concludes is necessary to protect the public health, except where expressly prohibited by statute or regulation. A hearing to consider action already taken, and not stayed by the Commissioner, will be conducted on an expedited basis.
(e) The hearing may not be required to be held at a time less than 2 working days after receipt of the request for hearing.
(f) Before the hearing, FDA will give to the party requesting the hearing reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the hearing, including a comprehensive statement of the basis for the decision or action taken or proposed that is the subject of the hearing and a general summary of the information that will be presented by FDA at the hearing in support of the decision or action. This information may be given orally or in writing, in the discretion of FDA.
(g) FDA and the party requesting the hearing will, if feasible, at least 1 day before the hearing provide to each other written notice of any published articles or written information to be presented at or relied on at the hearing. A copy will also be provided in advance if the other participant could not reasonably be expected to have or be able to obtain a copy. If written notice or a copy is not provided, the presiding officer may, if time permits, allow the party who did not receive the notice or copy additional time after the close of the hearing to make a submission concerning the article or information.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 26375, June 18, 1982; 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 16.26
Denial of hearing and summary decision.
(a) A request for a hearing may be denied, in whole or in part, if the Commissioner or the FDA official to whom authority is delegated to make the final decision on the matter determines that no genuine and substantial issue of fact has been raised by the material submitted. If the Commissioner or his or her delegate determines that a hearing is not justified, written notice of the determination will be given to the parties explaining the reason for denial.
(b) After a hearing commences, the presiding officer may issue a summary decision on any issue in the hearing if the presiding officer determines from the material submitted in connection with the hearing, or from matters officially noticed, that there is no genuine and substantial issue of fact respecting that issue. For the purpose of this paragraph, a hearing commences upon the receipt by FDA of a request for hearing submitted under § 16.22(b).
(c) The Commissioner or his or her delegate may review any summary decision of the presiding officer issued under paragraph (b) of this section at the request of a party or on the Commissioner's or his or her delegate's own initiative.
[53 FR 4615, Feb. 17, 1988, as amended at 69 FR 17290, Apr. 2, 2004]

# Subpart C—Commissioner and Presiding Officer
§ 16.40
Commissioner.
Whenever the Commissioner has delegated authority on a matter for which a regulatory hearing is available under this part, the functions of the Commissioner under this part may be performed by any of the officials to whom
the authority has been delegated, e.g., a center director.
[69 FR 17290, Apr. 2, 2004]
§ 16.42
Presiding officer.
(a) An FDA employee to whom the Commissioner delegates such authority, or any other agency employee designated by an employee to whom such authority is delegated, or, consistent with 5 CFR 930.209(b) or (c), an administrative law judge to whom such authority is delegated, may serve as the presiding officer and conduct a regulatory hearing under this part.
(b) In a regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation, the presiding officer is to be free from bias or prejudice and may not have participated in the investigation or action that is the subject of the hearing or be subordinate to a person, other than the Commissioner, who has participated in such investigation or action.
(c)(1) The Commissioner or the delegate under § 16.40 is not precluded by this section from prior participation in the investigation or action that is the subject of the hearing. If there has been prior participation, the Commissioner or the delegate should, if feasible, designate a presiding officer for the hearing who is not a subordinate. Thus, if the Commissioner's authority to make a final decision has been delegated to a center director, the presiding officer may be an official in another center or the office of the Commissioner. The exercise of general supervisory responsibility, or the designation of the presiding officer, does not constitute prior participation in the investigation or action that is the subject of the hearing so as to preclude the Commissioner or delegate from designating a subordinate as the presiding officer.
(2) The party requesting a hearing may make a written request to have the Commissioner or the delegate under § 16.40 be the presiding officer, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If accepted, as a matter of discretion, by the Commissioner or the delegate, the request is binding upon the party making the request.
(3) A different presiding officer may be substituted for the one originally designated under § 16.22 without notice to the parties.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989; 67 FR 53306, Aug. 15, 2002]
§ 16.44
Communication to presiding officer and Commissioner.
(a) Regulatory hearings are not subject to the separation of functions rules in § 10.55.
(b) Those persons who are directly involved in the investigation or presentation of the position of FDA or any party at a regulatory hearing that is required by the act or a regulation should avoid any off-the-record communication on the matter to the presiding officer or the Commissioner or their advisors if the communication is inconsistent with the requirement of § 16.95(b)(1) that the administrative record be the exclusive record for decision. If any communication of this type occurs, it is to be reduced to writing and made part of the record, and the other party provided an opportunity to respond.
(c) A copy of any letter or memorandum of meeting between a participant in the hearing and the presiding officer or the Commissioner, e.g., a response by the presiding officer to a request for a change in the time of the hearing, is to be sent to all participants by the person writing the letter or the memorandum.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Regulatory Hearing
§ 16.60
Hearing procedure.
(a) A regulatory hearing is public, except when the Commissioner determines that all or part of a hearing should be closed to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; to prevent the disclosure of a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information that is not available for public disclosure under § 20.61; or to protect investigatory records complied for law enforcement purposes that are not available for public disclosure under § 20.64.
(1) The Commissioner may determine that a regulatory hearing is closed either on the Commissioner's initiative or on a request by the party asking for
a regulatory hearing, in the request for the hearing.
(2) If the hearing is a private hearing, no persons other than the party requesting the hearing, counsel and witnesses, and an employee or consultant or other person subject to a commercial arrangement as defined in § 20.81(a) and FDA representatives with a direct professional interest in the subject matter of the proceeding are entitled to attend.
(b) A regulatory hearing will be conducted by a presiding officer. Employees of FDA will first give a full and complete statement of the action which is the subject of the hearing, together with the information and reasons supporting it, and may present any oral or written information relevant to the hearing. The party requesting the hearing may then present any oral or written information relevant to the hearing. All parties may confront and conduct reasonable cross-examination of any person (except for the presiding officer and counsel for the parties) who makes any statement on the matter at the hearing.
(c) The hearing is informal in nature, and the rules of evidence do not apply. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views will be made or considered, but any other party may comment upon or rebut all such data, information, and views.
(d) The presiding officer may order the hearing to be transcribed. The party requesting the hearing may have the hearing transcribed, at the party's expense, in which case a copy of the transcript is to be furnished to FDA. Any transcript of the hearing will be included with the presiding officer's report of the hearing.
(e) The presiding officer shall prepare a written report of the hearing. All written material presented at the hearing will be attached to the report. Whenever time permits, the parties to the hearing will be given the opportunity to review and comment on the presiding officer's report of the hearing.
(f) The presiding officer shall include as part of the report of the hearing a finding on the credibility of witnesses (other than expert witnesses) whenever credibility is a material issue, and shall include a recommended decision, with a statement of reasons, unless the Commissioner directs otherwise.
(g) The presiding officer has the power to take such actions and make such rulings as are necessary or appropriate to maintain order and to conduct a fair, expeditious, and impartial hearing, and to enforce the requirements of this part concerning the conduct of hearings. The presiding officer may direct that the hearing be conducted in any suitable manner permitted by law and these regulations.
(h) The Commissioner or the presiding officer has the power under § 10.19 to suspend, modify, or waive any provision of this part.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 66 FR 6469, Jan. 22, 2001; 66 FR 12850, Mar. 1, 2001]
§ 16.62
Right to counsel.
Any party to a hearing under this part has the right at all times to be advised and accompanied by counsel.

# Subpart E—Administrative Record and Decision
§ 16.80
Administrative record of a regulatory hearing.
(a) The administrative record of the regulatory hearing consists of the following:
(1) The notice of opportunity for hearing and the response.
(2) All written information and views submitted to the presiding officer at the hearing or after if specifically permitted by the presiding officer.
(3) Any transcript of the hearing.
(4) The presiding officer's report of the hearing and comments on the report under § 16.60(e).
(5) All letters and memoranda of meetings or communications between participants and the presiding officer or the Commissioner referred to in § 16.44(c).
(b) The record of the regulatory hearing is closed to the submission of information and views, at the close of the hearing, unless the presiding officer specifically permits additional time for a further submission.
§ 16.85
Examination of administrative record.
Part 20 governs the availability for public disclosure of each document that is a part of the administrative record of a regulatory hearing.
§ 16.95
Administrative decision and record for decision.
(a) With respect to a regulatory hearing at the Commissioner's initiative under § 16.1(a), the Commissioner shall consider the administrative record of the hearing specified in § 16.80(a) together with all other relevant information and views available to FDA in determining whether regulatory action should be taken and, if so, in what form.
(b) With respect to a regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation under § 16.1(b)—
(1) The administrative record of the hearing specified in § 16.80(a) constitutes the exclusive record for decision;
(2) On the basis of the administrative record of the hearing, the Commissioner shall issue a written decision stating the reasons for the Commissioner's administrative action and the basis in the record; and
(3) For purposes of judicial review under § 10.45, the record of the administrative proceeding consists of the record of the hearing and the Commissioner's decision.

# Subpart F—Reconsideration and Stay
§ 16.119
Reconsideration and stay of action.
After any final administrative action that is the subject of a hearing under this part, any party may petition the Commissioner for reconsideration of any part or all of the decision or action under § 10.33 or may petition for a stay of the decision or action under § 10.35.
[44 FR 22367, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Subpart G—Judicial Review
§ 16.120
Judicial review.
Section 10.45 governs the availability of judicial review concerning any regulatory action which is the subject of a hearing under this part
Pt. 17

# PART 17—CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES HEARINGS
Sec.
17.1
Scope.
17.2
Maximum penalty amounts.
17.3
Definitions.
17.5
Complaint.
17.7
Service of complaint.
17.9
Answer.
17.11
Default upon failure to file an answer.
17.13
Notice of hearing.
17.15
Parties to the hearing.
17.17
Summary decisions.
17.18
Interlocutory appeal from ruling of presiding officer.
17.19
Authority of the presiding officer.
17.20
Ex parte contacts.
17.21
Prehearing conferences.
17.23
Discovery.
17.25
Exchange of witness lists, witness statements, and exhibits.
17.27
Hearing subpoenas.
17.28
Protective order.
17.29
Fees.
17.30
Computation of time.
17.31
Form, filing, and service of papers.
17.32
Motions.
17.33
The hearing and burden of proof.
17.34
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
17.35
Sanctions.
17.37
Witnesses.
17.39
Evidence.
17.41
The administrative record.
17.43
Posthearing briefs.
17.45
Initial decision.
17.47
Appeals.
17.48
Harmless error.
17.51
Judicial review.
17.54
Deposit in the Treasury of the United States.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1451-1461; 21 U.S.C. 141-149, 321-394, 467f, 679, 821, 1034; 28 U.S.C. 2112; 42 U.S.C. 201-262, 263b, 364.

# Source:
60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 17 appear at 68 FR 24879, May 9, 2003, and at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.
§ 17.1
Scope.
This part sets forth practices and procedures for hearings concerning the administrative imposition of civil money penalties by FDA. Listed below are the statutory provisions that authorize civil money penalties that are governed by these procedures.
(a) Section 303(b)(2) and (b)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act that relate to prescription drug marketing practices.
(b) Section 303(f)(1) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act that relate to medical devices and section 303(f)(2) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act that relate to pesticide residues.
(c) Section 303(f)(3) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations relating to the submission of certifications and/or clinical trial information to the clinical trial data bank and section 303(f)(4) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act relating to postmarket studies, clinical trial requirements, and risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for drugs.
(d) Section 303(g)(1) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act that relate to dissemination of direct-to-consumer advertisements for approved drugs or biological products.
(e) Section 307 of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain actions in connection with an abbreviated new drug application or certain actions in connection with a person or individual debarred under section 306 of the act.
(f) Section 539(b)(1) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for certain violations of the act that relate to electronic products.
(g) Section 351(d)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (the PHS Act) authorizing civil money penalties for violations of biologic recall orders.
(h) Section 354(h)(3) of the PHS Act, as amended by the Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1992 and the Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1998, authorizing civil money penalties for failure to obtain a certificate and failure to comply with established standards, among other things.
(i) Section 2128(b)(1) of the PHS Act authorizing civil money penalties for intentionally destroying, altering, falsifying, or concealing any record or report required to be prepared, maintained, or submitted by vaccine manufacturers under section 2128 of the PHS Act.
(j) Section 303(f) of the act authorizing civil money penalties for any person who violates a requirement of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act which relates to tobacco products.
[60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 43301, July 20, 2004; 73 FR 66752, Nov. 12, 2008; 75 FR 73953, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 17.2
Maximum penalty amounts.
The maximum civil money penalties associated with the statutory provisions authorizing civil money penalties under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the Public Health Service Act can be found at 45 CFR part 102. The table of these maximum civil money penalties can be found at 45 CFR 102.3.
[81 FR 62358, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 17.3
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable in this part:
(a) For specific acts giving rise to civil money penalty actions brought under 21 U.S.C. 333(f)(1):
(1)
Significant departure,
for the purpose of interpreting 21 U.S.C. 333(f)(1)(B)(i), means a departure from requirements that is either a single major incident or a series of incidents that collectively are consequential.
(2)
Knowing departure,
for the purposes of interpreting 21 U.S.C. 333(f)(1)(B)(i), means a departure from a requirement taken:
(i) With actual knowledge that the action is such a departure; or
(ii) In deliberate ignorance of a requirement; or
(ii) In reckless disregard of a requirement.
(3)
Minor violations,
for the purposes of interpreting 21 U.S.C. 333(f)(1)(B)(ii), means departures from requirements that do not rise to a level of a single major incident or a series of incidents that are collectively consequential.
(4)
Defective,
for the purposes of interpreting 21 U.S.C. 333(f)(1)(B)(iii), includes any defect in performance, manufacture, construction, components, materials, specifications, design, installation, maintenance, or service of a
device, or any defect in mechanical, physical, or chemical properties of a device.
(b)
Person
or
respondent
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, scientific or academic establishment, government agency or organizational unit thereof, or other legal entity, or as may be defined in the act or regulation pertinent to the civil penalty action being brought.
(c)
Presiding officer
means an administrative law judge qualified under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(d) Any term that is defined in the act has the same definition for civil money penalty actions that may be brought under that act.
(e) Any term that is defined in Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations has the same definition for civil money penalty actions that may arise from the application of the regulation(s).
(f) Any term that is defined in the PHS Act has the same definition for civil money penalty actions that may be brought under that act.
(g)
Departmental Appeals Board (DAB)
means the Departmental Appeals Board of the Department of Health and Human Services.
[60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 82 FR 34402, July 25, 2017]
§ 17.5
Complaint.
(a) The Center with principal jurisdiction over the matter involved shall begin all administrative civil money penalty actions by serving on the respondent(s) a complaint signed by the Office of the Chief Counsel attorney for the Center and by filing a copy of the complaint with the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. For a civil money penalty action against retailers of tobacco products, the complaint may be signed by any Agency employee designated by the Chief Counsel.
(b) The complaint shall state:
(1) The allegations of liability against the respondent, including the statutory basis for liability, the identification of violations that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons that the respondent is responsible for the violations;
(2) The amount of penalties and assessments that the Center is seeking;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the respondent's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to retain counsel to represent the respondent; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the proposed amount of penalties and assessments, as provided in § 17.11.
(c) The Center may, on motion, subsequently amend its complaint to conform with the evidence adduced during the administrative process, as justice may require.
(d) The presiding officer will be assigned to the case upon the filing of the complaint under this part.
[60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 6091, Feb. 3, 2014]
§ 17.7
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint may be made by:
(1) Certified or registered mail or similar mail delivery service with a return receipt record reflecting receipt; or
(2) Delivery in person to:
(i) An individual respondent; or
(ii) An officer or managing or general agent in the case of a corporation or unincorporated business.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by:
(1) Affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury of the individual serving the complaint by personal delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service or similar mail delivery service return receipt record reflecting receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the respondent or by the respondent's counsel or authorized representative or agent.
§ 17.9
Answer.
(a) The respondent may request a hearing by filing an answer with the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, within 30 days of service of the
complaint. Unless stated otherwise, an answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the respondent:
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint; allegations not specifically denied in an answer are deemed admitted;
(2) Shall state all defenses on which the respondent intends to rely;
(3) Shall state all reasons why the respondent contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the requested amount; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent's counsel, if any.
(c) If the respondent is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the respondent shall, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The presiding officer may, for good cause shown, grant the respondent up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The respondent may, on motion, amend its answer to conform with the evidence as justice may require.
§ 17.11
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the respondent does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 17.9 and if service has been effected as provided in § 17.7, the presiding officer shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under the relevant statute, the presiding officer shall issue an initial decision within 30 days of the time the answer was due, imposing:
(1) The maximum amount of penalties provided for by law for the violations alleged; or
(2) The amount asked for in the complaint, whichever amount is smaller.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the respondent waives any right to a hearing and to contest the amount of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (a) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(c) If, before such a decision becomes final, the respondent files a motion seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the respondent from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending a decision on the motion.
(d) If, on such motion, the respondent can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file an answer in a timely manner, the presiding officer may withdraw the decision under paragraph (a) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the respondent an opportunity to answer the complaint as provided in § 17.9(a).
(e) If the presiding officer decides that the respondent's failure to file an answer in a timely manner is not excused, he or she shall affirm the decision under paragraph (a) of this section, and the decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the presiding officer issues the decision on the respondent's motion filed under paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 17.13
Notice of hearing.
After an answer has been filed, the Center shall serve a notice of hearing on the respondent. Such notice shall include:
(a) The date, time, and place of a prehearing conference, if any, or the date, time, and place of the hearing if there is not to be a prehearing conference;
(b) The nature of the hearing and the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(c) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(d) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the representatives of the government and of the respondent, if any; and
(e) Such other matters as the Center or the presiding officer deems appropriate.
§ 17.15
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the respondent and the Center(s)
with jurisdiction over the matter at issue. No other person may participate.
(b) The parties may at any time prior to a final decision by the entity deciding any appeal agree to a settlement of all or a part of the matter. The settlement agreement shall be filed in the docket and shall constitute complete or partial resolution of the administrative case as so designated by the settlement agreement. The settlement document shall be effective upon filing in the docket and need not be ratified by the presiding officer or the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(c) The parties may be represented by counsel, who may be present at the hearing.
§ 17.17
Summary decisions.
(a) At any time after the filing of a complaint, a party may move, with or without supporting affidavits (which, for purposes of this part, shall include declarations under penalty of perjury), for a summary decision on any issue in the hearing. The other party may, within 30 days after service of the motion, which may be extended for an additional 10 days for good cause, serve opposing affidavits or countermove for summary decision.
The presiding officer may set the matter for argument and call for the submission of briefs.
(b) The presiding officer shall grant the motion if the pleadings, affidavits, and other material filed in the record, or matters officially noticed, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the party is entitled to summary decision as a matter of law.
(c) Affidavits shall set forth only such facts as would be admissible in evidence and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated. When a motion for summary decision is made and supported as provided in this regulation, a party opposing the motion may not rest on mere allegations or denials or general descriptions of positions and contentions; affidavits or other responses must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue of material fact for the hearing.
(d) If, on motion under this section, a summary decision is not rendered on all issues or for all the relief asked, and if additional facts need to be developed, the presiding officer will issue an order specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy and directing further evidentiary proceedings on facts still at issue. The facts specified not to be at issue shall be deemed established.
(e) Except as provided in § 17.18, a party may not obtain interlocutory review by the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) of a partial summary decision of the presiding officer. A review of final summary decisions on all issues may be had through the procedure set forth in § 17.47.
§ 17.18
Interlocutory appeal from ruling of presiding officer.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, rulings of the presiding officer may not be appealed before consideration on appeal of the entire record of the hearing.
(b) A ruling of the presiding officer is subject to interlocutory appeal to the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) if the presiding officer certifies on the record or in writing that immediate review is necessary to prevent exceptional delay, expense, or prejudice to any participant, or substantial harm to the public interest.
(c) When an interlocutory appeal is made, a participant may file a brief on the appeal only if specifically authorized by the presiding officer or the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB), and if such authorization is granted, only within the period allowed by the presiding officer or the entity deciding the appeal. If a participant is authorized to file a brief, any other participant may file a brief in opposition, within the period allowed by the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB). The deadline for filing an interlocutory appeal is subject to the discretion of the presiding officer.
§ 17.19
Authority of the presiding officer.
(a) The presiding officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The presiding officer has the authority to:
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing on reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable time;
(3) Require parties to attend conferences for settlement, to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence that relates to the matter under investigation;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery consistent with § 17.23;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Upon motion of a party for good cause shown, the presiding officer may allow a witness to be recalled for additional testimony;
(11) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(12) Upon motion of a party or on the presiding officer's own motion, take official notice of facts;
(13) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary decision when there is no genuine issue of material fact;
(14) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone;
(15) Consolidate related or similar proceedings or sever unrelated matters;
(16) Limit the length of pleadings;
(17) Waive, suspend, or modify any rule in this part if the presiding officer determines that no party will be prejudiced, the ends of justice will be served, and the action is in accordance with law;
(18) Issue protective orders pursuant to § 17.28; and
(19) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the presiding officer under this part.
(c) The presiding officer does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.
§ 17.20
Ex parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the presiding officer's office) shall communicate in any way with the presiding officer on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 17.21
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The presiding officer may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the presiding officer shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The presiding officer may use a prehearing conference to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of the other party) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery and scheduling dates for completion of discovery;
(9) The date, time, and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The presiding officer shall issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the presiding officer at a prehearing conference.
§ 17.23
Discovery.
(a) No later than 60 days prior to the hearing, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, a party may make a request to another party for production, inspection, and copying of documents that are relevant to the issues before the presiding officer. Documents must be provided no later than 30 days after the request has been made.
(b) For the purpose of this part, the term
documents
includes information, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained in this section may be interpreted to require the creation of a document, except that requested data stored in an electronic data storage system must be produced in a form readily accessible to the requesting party.
(c) Requests for documents, requests for admissions, written interrogatories, depositions, and any forms of discovery, other than those permitted under paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section, are not authorized.
(d)(1) Within 10 days of service of a request for production of documents, a party may file a motion for a protective order.
(2) The presiding officer may grant a motion for a protective order, in whole or in part, if he or she finds that the discovery sought:
(i) Is unduly costly or burdensome,
(ii) Will unduly delay the proceeding, or
(iii) Seeks privileged information.
(3) The burden of showing that a protective order is necessary shall be on the party seeking the order.
(4) The burden of showing that documents should be produced is on the party seeking their production.
(e) The presiding officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a showing that:
(1) The information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods, and
(2) There is a substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing.
§ 17.25
Exchange of witness lists, witness statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 30 days before the hearing, or by such other time as is specified by the presiding officer, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior written statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including written testimony.
(b)(1) If a party objects to the proposed admission of evidence not exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the presiding officer will exclude such evidence if he or she determines that the failure to comply with paragraph (a) of this section should result in its exclusion.
(2) Unless the presiding officer finds that extraordinary circumstances justified the failure to make a timely exchange of witness lists under paragraph (a) of this section, he or she must exclude from the party's hearing evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list.
(3) If the presiding officer finds that extraordinary circumstances existed, the presiding officer must then determine whether the admission of the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness lists exchanged under paragraph (a) of this section would cause substantial prejudice to the objecting party. If the presiding officer finds that there is not substantial prejudice, the evidence may be admitted. If the presiding officer finds that there is substantial prejudice, the presiding officer may exclude the evidence, or at his or her discretion, may postpone the hearing for such time as is necessary for the objecting party to prepare and respond to the evidence.
(c) Unless a party objects within 5 days prior to the hearing, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 17.27
Hearing subpoenas.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may, when authorized by law, request that the presiding officer issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 20 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the presiding officer, upon a showing by the party of good cause. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed for service of a complaint in § 17.7.
(f) If a party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed believes a subpoena to be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, or if it wishes to raise any other objection or privilege recognized by law, the party or individual may file a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service. Such a filing will state the basis for the motion to quash. The presiding officer may quash or modify the subpoena or order it implemented, as justice may require.
§ 17.28
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by a party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) When issuing a protective order, the presiding officer may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from oppression or undue burden or expense, or to protect trade secrets or confidential commercial information, as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter, information the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or other information that would be withheld from public disclosure under 21 CFR part 20. Such orders may include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery provided for by this part other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(6) That the information not be disclosed to the public or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(7) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the presiding officer.
§ 17.29
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in a United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served.
§ 17.30
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act or event, and includes the last day of the period, unless either such day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which event the time includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) When a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional 5 days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
§ 17.31
Form, filing, and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Documents filed with Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305),
Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, shall include two copies (original and redacted version) for confidential petitions. Otherwise, only one copy is necessary.
(2) The first page of every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the Office of the Chief Counsel, and designation of the pleading or paper (e.g., “motion to quash subpoena”).
(3) Every pleading shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of, the party or the person on whose behalf the pleading was filed, or his or her counsel.
(4) Pleadings or papers are considered filed when they are received by the Dockets Management Staff.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the Dockets Management Staff under this part shall, no later than the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document, other than service of a complaint, shall be made by delivering a copy personally or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail or express delivery service, postage prepaid and addressed, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by counsel, service shall be made on such counsel in lieu of the actual party.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the time and manner of service, shall be proof of service.
[60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023]
§ 17.32
Motions.
(a) Any application to the presiding officer for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, delivered to the presiding officer, and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The presiding officer may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the presiding officer, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The presiding officer may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
§ 17.33
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The presiding officer shall conduct a hearing on the record to determine whether the respondent is liable for a civil money penalty and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil money penalty considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) In order to prevail, the Center must prove respondent's liability and the appropriateness of the penalty under the applicable statute by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The respondent must prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, who may order closure only to protect trade secrets or confidential commercial information, as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter, information the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or other information that would be withheld from public disclosure under part 20 of this chapter.
§ 17.34
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) When determining an appropriate amount of civil money penalties and assessments, the presiding officer and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or entity designated by the Commissioner to decide the appeal (currently the DAB) shall evaluate any circumstances
that mitigate or aggravate the violation and shall articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The presiding officer and the entity deciding the appeal shall refer to the factors identified in the statute under which the penalty is assessed for purposes of determining the amount of penalty.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the presiding officer or the entity deciding the appeal from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.
§ 17.35
Sanctions.
(a) The presiding officer may sanction a person, including any party or counsel for:
(1) Failing to comply with an order, subpoena, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including, but not limited to, those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with a discovery order, including discovery and subpoena provisions of this part, the presiding officer may:
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
(3) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) The presiding officer may exclude from participation in the hearing any legal counsel, party, or witness who refuses to obey an order of the presiding officer. In the case of repeated refusal, the presiding officer may grant judgment to the opposing party.
(e) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part after service of a notice of hearing, the presiding officer may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(f) The presiding officer may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief, or other document that is not filed in a timely fashion or in compliance with the rules of this part.
(g) Sanctions imposed under this section may be the subject of an interlocutory appeal as allowed in § 17.18(b), provided that no such appeal will stay or delay a proceeding.
§ 17.37
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) Direct testimony shall be admitted in the form of a written declaration submitted under penalty of perjury. Any such written declaration must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of the witness. Any prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing shall be exchanged as provided in § 17.25(a).
(c) The presiding officer shall exercise reasonable control over the manner and order of questioning witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:
(1) Make the examination and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
(2) Avoid undue consumption of time; and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The presiding officer shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the presiding officer, a witness may be cross-examined on relevant matters without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the presiding officer, a witness may be cross-examined on relevant matters with regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the presiding officer, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be
conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the presiding officer may order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of the other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of:
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party designated to be the party's sole representative for purposes of the hearing; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by a party engaged in assisting counsel for the party.
(g) If a witness' testimony is submitted in writing prior to cross-examination, the cross-examining party need not subpoena the witness or pay for his or her travel to the hearing. The sponsoring party is responsible for producing the witness at its own expense, and failure to do so shall result in the striking of the witness' testimony.
§ 17.39
Evidence.
(a) The presiding officer shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the presiding officer shall not be bound by the “Federal Rules of Evidence.” However, the presiding officer may apply the “Federal Rules of Evidence” when appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The presiding officer shall exclude evidence that is not relevant or material.
(d) Relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Relevant evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence of furnishing or offering or promising to furnish, or accepting or offering or promising to accept, a valuable consideration in settling or attempting to settle a civil money penalty assessment which was disputed as to either validity or amount, is not admissible to prove liability for or invalidity of the civil money penalty or its amount. Evidence of conduct or statements made in settlement negotiations is likewise not admissible. This rule does not require the exclusion of any evidence otherwise discoverable merely because it is presented in the course of settlement negotiations. This rule also does not require exclusion when the evidence is offered for another purpose, such as proving bias or prejudice of a witness or opposing a contention of undue delay.
(g) The presiding officer may in his or her discretion permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to § 17.28.
§ 17.41
The administrative record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Witnesses, participants, and counsel have 30 days from the time the transcript becomes available to propose corrections in the transcript of oral testimony. Corrections are permitted only for transcription errors. The presiding officer shall promptly order justified corrections. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the Dockets Management Staff at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits, and other evidence admitted at the hearing and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the administrative record for the decision by the presiding officer and the entity designated by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to decide the appeal, currently the DAB.
(c) The administrative record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, who shall upon motion of any party order otherwise when necessary to protect trade secrets or confidential commercial information, as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter, information the
disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or other information that would be withheld from public disclosure under part 20.
§ 17.43
Posthearing briefs.
Any party may file a posthearing brief. The presiding officer shall fix the time for filing such briefs (which shall be filed simultaneously), which shall not exceed 60 days from the date the parties received the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The presiding officer may permit the parties to file responsive briefs. No brief may exceed 30 pages (exclusive of proposed findings and conclusions) unless the presiding officer has previously found that the issues in the proceeding are so complex, or the administrative record is so voluminous, as to justify longer briefs, in which case the presiding officer may set a longer page limit. Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall not exceed 30 pages unless the presiding officer has previously found that the issues in the proceeding are so complex, or the administrative record is so voluminous, as to justify longer proposed findings and conclusions, in which case the presiding officer may set a longer page limit.
§ 17.45
Initial decision.
(a) The presiding officer shall issue an initial decision based only on the administrative record. The decision shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the allegations in the complaint are true, and, if so, whether respondent's actions identified in the complaint violated the law;
(2) Whether any affirmative defenses are meritorious; and
(3) If the respondent is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments, considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case.
(c) The presiding officer shall serve the initial decision or the decision granting summary decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of posthearing briefs and responsive briefs (if permitted) has expired. If the presiding officer believes that he or she cannot meet the 90-day deadline, he or she shall notify the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity designated by the Commissioner to decide the appeal of the reason(s) therefor, and the Commissioner or that entity may then set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision or the decision granting summary decision of the presiding officer is timely appealed, the initial decision or the decision granting summary decision shall constitute the final decision of FDA and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the presiding officer.
§ 17.47
Appeals.
(a) Either the Center or any respondent may appeal an initial decision, including a decision not to withdraw a default judgment, or a decision granting summary decision to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity the Commissioner designates to decide the appeal. The Commissioner has currently designated the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) to decide appeals under this part. Parties may appeal to the DAB by filing a notice of appeal with the DAB, Appellate Division MS6127, Departmental Appeals Board, United States Department of Health and Human Services, 330 Independence Ave. SW., Cohen Bldg., rm. G-644, Washington, DC 20201, and the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial decision or decision granting summary decision.
(2) The Commissioner or the entity designated by the Commissioner to hear appeals may, within his or her discretion, extend the initial 30-day period for an additional period of time if the
Center or any respondent files a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.
(c) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief of no greater length than that allowed for the posthearing brief. The notice must identify specific exceptions to the initial decision, must support each exception with citations to the record, and must explain the basis for each exception.
(d) The opposing party may file a brief of no greater length than that allowed for the posthearing brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief, unless such time period is extended by the Commissioner or the entity designated by the Commissioner to hear appeals on request of the opposing party for good cause shown. Any brief in opposition to exceptions shall be filed with the Dockets Management Staff and the DAB (addresses above).
(e) The appellant may file a reply brief not more than 10 pages in length within 10 days of being served with appellee's brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB).
(g) The entity deciding the appeal will consider only those issues raised before the presiding officer, except that the appellee may make any argument based on the record in support of the initial decision or decision granting summary decision.
(h) If on appeal the entity deciding the appeal considers issues not adequately briefed by the parties, the entity may ask for additional briefing. However, no such additional briefs will be considered unless so requested.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is relevant and material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence at the hearing, the entity deciding the appeal may remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of the additional evidence.
(j) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) will issue a decision on the appeal within 60 days, if practicable, of the due date for submission of the appellee's brief. In the decision, the entity deciding the appeal may decline to review the case, affirm the initial decision or decision granting summary decision (with or without an opinion), or reverse the initial decision or decision granting summary decision, or increase, reduce, reverse, or remand any civil money penalty determined by the presiding officer in the initial decision. If the entity deciding the appeal declines to review the case, the initial decision or the decision granting summary decision shall constitute the final decision of FDA and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the declination by the entity deciding the appeal.
(k) The standard of review on a disputed issue of fact is whether the initial decision is supported by substantial evidence on the whole record. The standard of review on a disputed issue of law is whether the initial decision is erroneous.
[60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 5979, Feb. 6, 2006]
§ 17.48
Harmless error.
No error in either the admission or the exclusion of evidence, and no error or defect in any ruling or order or in any act done or omitted by the presiding officer or by any of the parties is grounds for vacating, modifying, or otherwise disturbing an otherwise appropriate ruling or order or act, unless refusal to take such action appears to the presiding officer or the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) to be inconsistent with substantial justice. The presiding officer and the entity deciding the appeal at every stage of the proceeding will disregard any error or defect in the proceeding that does not affect the substantial rights of the parties.
§ 17.51
Judicial review.
(a) The final decision of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) constitutes final agency action
from which a respondent may petition for judicial review under the statutes governing the matter involved. Although the filing of a petition for judicial review does not stay a decision under this part, a respondent may file a petition for stay of such decision under § 10.35 of this chapter.
(b) The Chief Counsel of FDA has been designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as the officer on whom copies of petitions for judicial review are to be served. This officer is responsible for filing the record on which the final decision is based. The record of the proceeding is certified by the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB).
(c) Exhaustion of an appeal to the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) is a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review.
§ 17.54
Deposit in the Treasury of the United States.
All amounts assessed pursuant to this part shall be delivered to the Director, Division of Financial Management (HFA-100), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 11-61, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, and shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States.
Pt. 19

# PART 19—STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
19.1
Scope.
19.5
Reference to Department regulations.
19.6
Code of ethics for government service.
19.10
Food and Drug Administration Conflict of Interest Review Board.

# Subpart B—Reporting of Violations
19.21
Duty to report violations.

# Subpart C—Disqualification Conditions
19.45
Temporary disqualification of former employees.
19.55
Permanent disqualification of former employees.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 371.

# Source:
42 FR 15615, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 19.1
Scope.
This part governs the standards of conduct for, and establishes regulations to prevent conflicts of interest by, all Food and Drug Administration employees.
§ 19.5
Reference to Department regulations.
(a) The provisions of 45 CFR part 73, establishing standards of conduct for all Department employees, are fully applicable to all Food and Drug Administration employees, except that such regulations shall be applicable to special government employees, i.e., consultants to the Food and Drug Administration, only to the extent stated in subpart L of 45 CFR part 73.
(b) The provisions of 45 CFR part 73a supplement the Department standards of conduct and apply only to Food and Drug Administration employees except special government employees.
§ 19.6
Code of ethics for government service.
The following code of ethics, adopted by Congress on July 11, 1958, shall apply to all Food and Drug Administration employees:

# Code of Ethics for Government Service
Any person in Government service should:
1. Put loyalty to the highest moral principles and to country above loyalty to persons, party, or Government department.
2. Uphold the Constitution, laws, and legal regulations of the United States and of all governments therein and never be a party to their evasion.
3. Give a full day's labor for a full day's pay; giving to the performance of his duties his earnest effort and best thought.
4. Seek to find and employ more efficient and economical ways of getting tasks accomplished.
5. Never discriminate unfairly by the dispensing of special favors or privileges to anyone, whether for remuneration or not; and never accept, for himself or his family, favors or benefits under circumstances which might be construed by reasonable persons as influencing the performance of his governmental duties.
6. Make no private promises of any kind binding upon the duties of office, since a Government employee has no private word which can be binding on public duty.
7. Engage in no business with the Government, either directly or indirectly, which is inconsistent with the conscientious performance of his governmental duties.
8. Never use any information coming to him confidentially in the performance of governmental duties as a means for making private profit.
9. Expose corruption wherever discovered.
10. Uphold these principles, ever conscious that public office is a public trust.
§ 19.10
Food and Drug Administration Conflict of Interest Review Board.
(a) The Commissioner shall establish a permanent five-member Conflict of Interest Review Board, which shall review and make recommendations to the Commissioner on all specific or policy matters relating to conflicts of interest arising within the Food and Drug Administration that are forwarded to it by: (1) The Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations or (2) anyone who is the subject of an adverse determination by the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations on any matter arising under the conflict of interest laws, except a determination of an apparent violation of law. The Director, Division of Ethics and Program Integrity, Office of Management and Operations, shall serve as executive secretary of the Review Board.
(b) It shall be the responsibility of every Food and Drug Administration employee with whom any specific or policy issue relating to conflicts of interest is raised, or who otherwise wishes to have any such matter resolved, to forward the matter to the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations for resolution, except that reporting of apparent violations of law are governed by § 19.21.
(c) All general policy relating to conflicts of interest shall be established in guidance documents pursuant to the provisions of § 10.90(b) of this chapter and whenever feasible shall be incorporated in regulations in this subpart.
(d) All decisions relating to specific individuals shall be placed in a public file established for this purpose by the Division of Freedom of Information, e.g., a determination that a consultant may serve on an advisory committee with specific limitations or with public disclosure of stock holdings, except that such determination shall be written in a way that does not identify the individual in the following situations:
(1) A determination that an employee must dispose of prohibited financial interests or refrain from incompatible outside activities in accordance with established Department or agency regulations.
(2) A determination that a proposed consultant is not eligible for employment by the agency.
(3) A determination that public disclosure of any information would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy in violation of § 20.63 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15615, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 55 FR 1404, Jan. 16, 1990; 65 FR 56479, Sept. 19, 2000; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011]

# Subpart B—Reporting of Violations
§ 19.21
Duty to report violations.
(a) The Office of Internal Affairs, Office of the Commissioner, is responsible for obtaining factual information for the Food and Drug Administration on any matter relating to allegations of misconduct, impropriety, conflict of interest, or other violations of Federal statutes by agency personnel.
(b) Any Food and Drug Administration employee who has factual information showing or who otherwise believes that any present or former Food and Drug Administration employee has violated or is violating any provision of this subpart or of 45 CFR parts 73 or 73a or of any statute listed in appendix A to 45 CFR part 73 should report such information directly to the Office of Internal Affairs. Any such reports shall be in writing or shall with the assistance of the Office of Internal Affairs, be reduced to writing, and shall be promptly investigated.
(c) Any report pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and any records relating to an investigation of such reports shall be maintained in strict confidence in the files of the Office of Internal Affairs, shall be exempt from public disclosure, and may be reviewed
only by authorized Food and Drug Administration employees who are required to do so in the performance of their duties.
[42 FR 15615, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 60 FR 47478, Sept. 13, 1995]

# Subpart C—Disqualification Conditions
§ 19.45
Temporary disqualification of former employees.
Within 1 year after termination of employment with the Food and Drug Administration, no former Food and Drug Administration employee, including a special government employee, shall appear personally before the Food and Drug Administration or other federal agency or court as agent or attorney for any person other than the United States in connection with any proceeding or matter in which the United States is a party or has a direct and substantial interest and which was under his official responsibility at any time within one year preceding termination of such responsibility. The term
official responsibility
means the direct administrative or operating authority, whether intermediate or final, and either exercisable alone or with others, and either personally or through subordinates, to approve, disapprove, or otherwise direct government action.
§ 19.55
Permanent disqualification of former employees.
No former Food and Drug Administration employee, including a special government employee, shall knowingly act as agent or attorney for anyone other than United States in connection with any judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, charge, accusation, or other particular matter involving a specific party or parties in which the United States is a party or has a direct and substantial interest and in which he participated personally and substantially through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, rendering of advice, investigation, or otherwise as a Food and Drug Administration employee.
Pt. 20

# PART 20—PUBLIC INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Official Testimony and Information
Sec.
20.1
Testimony by Food and Drug Administration employees.
20.2
Production of records by Food and Drug Administration employees.
20.3
Certification and authentication of Food and Drug Administration records.

# Subpart B—General Policy
20.20
Policy on disclosure of Food and Drug Administration records.
20.21
Uniform access to records.
20.22
Partial disclosure of records.
20.23
Request for existing records.
20.24
Preparation of new records.
20.25
Retroactive application of regulations.
20.26
Electronic availability and indexes of certain records.
20.27
Submission of records marked as confidential.
20.28
Food and Drug Administration determinations of confidentiality.
20.29
Prohibition on withdrawal of records from Food and Drug Administration files.
20.30
Food and Drug Administration Freedom of Information Staff.
20.31
Retention schedule of requests for Food and Drug Administration records.
20.32
Disclosure of Food and Drug Administration employee names.
20.33
Form or format of response.
20.34
Search for records.

# Subpart C—Procedures and Fees
20.40
Filing a request for records.
20.41
Time limitations.
20.42
Aggregation of certain requests.
20.43
Multitrack processing.
20.44
Expedited processing.
20.45
Fees to be charged.
20.46
Waiver or reduction of fees.
20.47
Situations in which confidentiality is uncertain.
20.48
Judicial review of proposed disclosure.
20.49
Denial of a request for records.
20.50
Nonspecific and overly burdensome requests.
20.51
Referral to primary source of records.
20.52
Availability of records at National Technical Information Service.
20.53
Use of private contractor for copying.
20.54
Request for review without copying.
20.55
Indexing trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.

# Subpart D—Exemptions
20.60
Applicability of exemptions.
20.61
Trade secrets and commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential.
20.62
Inter- or intra-agency memoranda or letters.
20.63
Personnel, medical, and similar files, disclosure of which constitutes a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
20.64
Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes.
20.65
National defense and foreign policy.
20.66
Internal personnel rules and practices.
20.67
Records exempted by other statutes.

# Subpart E—Limitations on Exemptions
20.80
Applicability of limitations on exemptions.
20.81
Data and information previously disclosed to the public.
20.82
Discretionary disclosure by the Commissioner.
20.83
Disclosure required by court order.
20.84
Disclosure to consultants, advisory committees, State and local government officials commissioned pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 372(a), and other special government employees.
20.85
Disclosure to other Federal Government departments and agencies.
20.86
Disclosure in administrative or court proceedings.
20.87
Disclosure to Congress.
20.88
Communications with State and local government officials.
20.89
Communications with foreign government officials.
20.90
Disclosure to contractors.
20.91
Use of data or information for administrative or court enforcement action.

# Subpart F—Availability of Specific Categories of Records
20.100
Applicability; cross-reference to other regulations.
20.101
Administrative enforcement records.
20.102
Court enforcement records.
20.103
Correspondence.
20.104
Summaries of oral discussions.
20.105
Testing and research conducted by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration.
20.106
Studies and reports prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration.
20.107
Food and Drug Administration manuals.
20.108
Agreements between the Food and Drug Administration and other departments, agencies, and organizations.
20.109
Data and information obtained by contract.
20.110
Data and information about Food and Drug Administration employees.
20.111
Data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration.
20.112
Voluntary drug experience reports submitted by physicians and hospitals.
20.113
Voluntary product defect reports.
20.114
Data and information submitted pursuant to cooperative quality assurance agreements.
20.115
Product codes for manufacturing or sales dates.
20.116
Drug and device registration and listing information.
20.117
New drug information.
20.118
Advisory committee records.
20.119
Lists of names and addresses.
20.120
Records available in Food and Drug Administration Public Reading Rooms.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 18 U.S.C. 1905; 19 U.S.C. 2531-2582; 21 U.S.C. 321-393, 1401-1403; 42 U.S.C. 241, 242, 242a, 242l, 242n, 243, 262, 263, 263b-263n, 264, 265, 300u-300u-5, 300aa-1.

# Source:
42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Official Testimony and Information
§ 20.1
Testimony by Food and Drug Administration employees.
(a) No officer or employee of the Food and Drug Administration or of any other office or establishment in the Department of Health and Human Services, except as authorized by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs pursuant to this section or in the discharge of his official duties under the laws administered by the Food and Drug Administration, shall give any testimony before any tribunal pertaining to any function of the Food and Drug Administration or with respect to any information acquired in the discharge of his official duties.
(b) Whenever a subpoena, in appropriate form, has been lawfully served upon an officer or employee of the Food and Drug Administration commanding the giving of any testimony, such officer or employee shall, unless otherwise authorized by the Commissioner, appear in response thereto and respectfully decline to testify on the grounds that it is prohibited by this section.
(c) A person who desires testimony from any employee may make written request therefor, verified by oath, directed to the Commissioner setting forth his interest in the matter sought
to be disclosed and designating the use to which such testimony will be put in the event of compliance with such request:
Provided,
That a written request therefor made by a health, food, or drug officer, prosecuting attorney, or member of the judiciary of any State, Territory, or political subdivision thereof, acting in his official capacity, need not be verified by oath. If it is determined by the Commissioner, or any other officer or employee of the Food and Drug Administration whom he may designate to act on his behalf for the purpose, that such testimony will be in the public interest and will promote the objectives of the act and the agency, the request may be granted. Where a request for testimony is granted, one or more employees of the Food and Drug Administration may be designated to appear, in response to a subpoena, and testify with respect thereto.
§ 20.2
Production of records by Food and Drug Administration employees.
(a) Any request for records of the Food and Drug Administration, whether it be by letter or by a subpena duces tecum or by any other writing, shall be handled pursuant to the procedures established in subpart B of this part, and shall comply with the rules governing public disclosure established in subparts C, D, E, and F of this part and in other regulations cross-referenced in § 20.100(c).
(b) Whenever a subpoena duces tecum, in appropriate form, has been lawfully served upon an officer or employee of the Food and Drug Administration commanding the production of any record, such officer or employee shall appear in response thereto, respectfully decline to produce the record on the ground that it is prohibited by this section, and state that the production of the record(s) involved will be handled by the procedures established in this part.
§ 20.3
Certification and authentication of Food and Drug Administration records.
(a) Upon request, the Food and Drug administration will certify the authenticity of copies of records that are requested to be disclosed pursuant to this part or will authenticate copies of records previously disclosed.
(b) A request for certified copies of records or for authentication of records shall be sent in writing to the Division of Freedom of Information at the address located on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014]

# Subpart B—General Policy
§ 20.20
Policy on disclosure of Food and Drug Administration records.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will make the fullest possible disclosure of records to the public, consistent with the rights of individuals to privacy, the property rights of persons in trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information, and the need for the Agency to promote frank internal policy deliberations and to pursue its regulatory activities without disruption.
(b) Except where specifically exempt pursuant to the provisions of this part, all FDA records shall be made available for public disclosure. FDA will withhold requested information only if:
(1) The Agency reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in this part; or
(2) Disclosure is prohibited by law.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, all nonexempt records shall be made available for public disclosure upon request regardless of whether any justification or need for such records have been shown.
(d) Under § 21.71 of this chapter, a statement of the purposes to which the record requested is to be put, and a certification that the record will be so used, may be requested when:
(1) The requested record is contained in a Privacy Act Record System as defined in § 21.3(c) of this chapter;
(2) The requester is a person other than the individual who is the subject of the record that is so retrieved or a person acting on his behalf; and
(3) The disclosure is one that is discretionary;
i.e.,
not required under this part.
(e) “Record” and any other term used in this part in reference to information includes any information that would be an Agency record subject to the requirements of this part when maintained by the Agency in any format, including an electronic format.
(f) FDA will establish procedures for identifying records of general interest or use to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records in a publicly accessible electronic format.
[87 FR 55911, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.21
Uniform access to records.
Any record of the Food and Drug Administration that is disclosed in an authorized manner to any member of the public is available for disclosure to all members of the public, except that:
(a) Data and information subject to the exemptions established in § 20.61 for trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information, and in § 20.63 for personal privacy, shall be disclosed only to the persons for the protection of whom these exemptions exist.
(b) The limited disclosure of records permitted in § 7.87(c) of this chapter for section 305 hearing records, in § 20.80(b) regarding certain limitations on exemptions, in § 20.103(b) for certain correspondence, and in § 20.104(b) for certain summaries of oral discussions, shall be subject to the special rules stated therein.
(c) Disclosure of a record about an individual, as defined in § 21.3(a) of this chapter, that is retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier and is contained in a Privacy Act Record System, as defined in § 21.3(c) of this chapter, shall be subject to the special requirements of part 21 of this chapter. Disclosure of such a record to an individual who is the subject of the record does not invoke the rule established in this section that such records shall be made available for disclosure to all members of the public.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9037, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 20.22
Partial disclosure of records.
(a) If a record contains both disclosable and nondisclosable information, the nondisclosable information will be deleted and the remaining record will be disclosed unless the two are so inextricably intertwined that it is not feasible to separate them or release of the disclosable information would compromise or impinge upon the nondisclosable portion of the record.
(b)(1) Whenever information is deleted from a record that contains both disclosable and nondisclosable information, the amount of information deleted shall be indicated on the portion of the record that is made available, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by an exemption under the Freedom of Information Act.
(2) When technically feasible, the amount of information deleted shall be indicated at the place in the record where the deletion is made.
(3) The exemption(s) under which the information has been deleted shall be noted at the site of the deletion.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003; 87 FR 55911, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.23
Request for existing records.
(a) Any written request to the Food and Drug Administration for existing records not prepared for routine distribution to the public shall be deemed to be a request for records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, whether or not the Freedom of Information Act is mentioned in the request, and shall be governed by the provisions of this part.
(b) Records or documents prepared by the Food and Drug Administration for routine public distribution, e.g., pamphlets, speeches, and educational materials, shall be furnished free of charge upon request as long as the supply lasts. The provisions of this part shall not be applicable to such requests except when the supply of such material is exhausted and it is necessary to reproduce individual copies upon specific request.
(c) All existing Food and Drug Administration records are subject to routine destruction according to standard record retention schedules.
§ 20.24
Preparation of new records.
(a) The Freedom of Information Act and the provisions of this part apply only to existing records that are reasonably described in a request filed with the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to the procedures established in subpart C of this part.
(b) The Commissioner may, in his discretion, prepare new records in order to respond adequately to a request for information when he concludes that it is in the public interest and promotes the objectives of the act and the agency.
§ 20.25
Retroactive application of regulations.
The provisions of this part apply to all records in Food and Drug Administration files.
§ 20.26
Electronic availability and indexes of certain records.
(a) Indexes shall be maintained, and revised at least quarterly, and, as required, copies of electronic records shall be made available for the following Food and Drug Administration records:
(1) Final orders published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER
with respect to every denial or withdrawal of approval of a new drug application or a new animal drug application for which a public hearing has been requested.
(2) Statements of policy and interpretation adopted by the agency and still in force and not published in the
Federal Register.
(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public.
(4) Records that have been released to any person in response to a Freedom of Information request, and that:
(i) The Agency has determined have become, or are likely to become, the subject of subsequent Freedom of Information requests for substantially the same records; or
(ii) Have been requested three or more times under the Freedom of Information Act.
(b) Each such record and index will be made available by accessing the Agency's website at
https://www.fda.gov.
A printed copy of each index is available by writing or visiting the Freedom of Information Staff's address on the Agency's website at
https://www.fda.gov.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014; 87 FR 55911, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.27
Submission of records marked as confidential.
Marking records submitted to the Food and Drug Administration as confidential, or with any other similar term, raises no obligation by the Food and Drug Administration to regard such records as confidential, to return them to the person who has submitted them, to withhold them from disclosure to the public, or to advise the person submitting them when a request for their public disclosure is received or when they are in fact disclosed.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.28
Food and Drug Administration determinations of confidentiality.
A determination that data or information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration will be held in confidence and will not be available for public disclosure shall be made only in the form of a regulation published or cross-referenced in this part.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.29
Prohibition on withdrawal of records from Food and Drug Administration files.
No person may withdraw records submitted to the Food and Drug Administration. All Food and Drug Administration records shall be retained by the agency until disposed of pursuant to routine record disposal procedures.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.30
Food and Drug Administration Division of Freedom of Information.
(a) The office responsible for Agency compliance with the Freedom of Information Act and this part is the Division of Freedom of Informationat the address located on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov.
(b) All requests for Agency records shall be sent in writing to this office.
[76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 20.31
Retention schedule of requests for Food and Drug Administration records.
(a) Unless unusual circumstances dictate otherwise, the Food and Drug Administration shall maintain and dispose of files of requests and reponses furnished thereto within the time limits authorized by GSA General Records Schedule 14, FPMR 101-11-4, January 10, 1977, as follows:
(1) Files created by the receipt of and response to freedom of information requests, except denials and/or appeals, may be destroyed 2 years from date of final response.
(2) Files created by a freedom of information request which was wholly or partially denied may be destroyed 5 years after the denial letter was issued.
(3) Files created by a freedom of information request which was wholly or partially denied and which denial was subsequently appealed to the Department of Health and Human Services may be destroyed 4 years after final determination by FDA or 3 years after final adjudication by courts, whichever is later.
(b) This destruction schedule will automatically be revised whenever the time limits pertaining to these records are revised by the GSA General Records Schedule.
[47 FR 24277, June 4, 1982]
§ 20.32
Disclosure of Food and Drug Administration employee names.
The names of Food and Drug Administration employees will not be deleted from disclosable records except where such deletion is necessary to prevent disclosure of an informant or danger to the life or physical safety of the employee or under other extraordinary circumstances.
§ 20.33
Form or format of response.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration shall make reasonable efforts to provide a record in any requested form or format if the record is readily reproducible by the agency in that form or format.
(b) If the agency determines that a record is not readily reproducible in the requested form or format, the agency may notify the requester of alternative forms and formats that are available. If the requester does not express a preference for an alternative in response to such notification, the agency may provide its response in the form and format of the agency's choice.
(c) Response letters shall contain contact information for the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
[68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.34
Search for records.
(a) In responding to a request for records, the Food and Drug Administration shall make reasonable efforts to search for records kept in electronic form or format, except when such efforts would significantly interfere with the operation of the agency's automated information systems.
(b) The term “search” means to review, manually or by automated means, agency records for the purpose of locating those records that are responsive to the request.
[68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003]

# Subpart C—Procedures and Fees
§ 20.40
Filing a request for records.
(a) All requests for Food and Drug Administration records shall be made in writing by mailing or delivering the request to the Freedom of Information Staff at the address on the Agency's website at
https://www.fda.gov,
by faxing it to the fax number listed on the Agency's website at
https://www.fda.gov,
or by submission through the Agency's online FOIA submission portal at
https://www.fda.gov.
All requests must contain the postal address and telephone number of the requester and the name of the person responsible for payment of any fees that may be charged.
(b) A request for Food and Drug Administration records shall reasonably describe the records being sought, in a
way that they can be identified and located. A request should include all pertinent details that will help identify the records sought.
(1) If the description is insufficient to locate the records requested, the Food and Drug Administration will so notify the person making the request and indicate the additional information needed to identify the records requested.
(2) Every reasonable effort shall be made by the Food and Drug Administration to assist in the identification and location of the records sought.
(c) Upon receipt of a request for records, the Division of Freedom of Information shall enter it in a public log. The log shall state the date received, the name of the person making the request, the nature of the record requested, the action taken on the request, the date of determination letter sent pursuant to § 20.41(b), and the date(s) any records are subsequently furnished.
(d) A request by an individual, as defined in § 21.3(a) of this chapter, for a record about himself shall be subject to:
(1) The special requirements of part 21 of this chapter (the privacy regulations), and not to the provisions of this subpart, if the record requested is retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier and is contained in a Privacy Act Record System, as defined in § 21.3(c) of this chapter.
(2) The provisions of this subpart if the record requested is not retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier, whether or not the record is contained in a Privacy Act Record System.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014; 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.41
Time limitations.
(a) All time limitations prescribed pursuant to this section shall begin as of the time at which a request for records is logged in by the Division of Freedom of Information pursuant to § 20.40(c). An oral request for records shall not begin any time requirement. A written request for records sent elsewhere within the agency shall not begin any time requirement until it is redirected to the Division of Freedom of Information and is logged in there in accordance with § 20.40(c).
(b) Within 20 working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after a request for records is logged in at the Division of Freedom of Information, the agency shall send a letter to the requester providing the agency's determination as to whether, or the extent to which, the agency will comply with the request, and, if any records are denied, the reasons for the denial.
(1) If all of the records requested have been located and a final determination has been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records requested, the letter shall so state.
(2) If all of the records have not been located or a final determination has not yet been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records requested, e.g., because it is necessary to consult the person affected pursuant to § 20.47, the letter shall state the extent to which the records involved shall be disclosed pursuant to the rules established in this part.
(3)(i) In unusual circumstances, the agency may extend the time for sending the letter for an additional period.
(A) The Agency may provide for an extension of up to 10 working days by providing written notice to the requester setting out the reasons for the extension and the date by which a determination is expected to be sent. In the written notice, the Agency will inform the requester of the right to contact the Freedom of Information Act Public Liaison and to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
(B) The agency may provide for an extension of more than 10 working days by providing written notice to the requester setting out the reasons for the extension. The notice also will give the requester an opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed in a shorter time and/or an opportunity to agree on a timeframe longer than the 10 extra working days for processing the request.
(ii) Unusual circumstances may exist under any of the following conditions:
(A) There is a need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other components that are separate from the agency component responsible for processing the request;
(B) There is a need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are demanded in a single request; or
(C) There is need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more components of the Food and Drug Administration having substantial subject-matter interest in the determination.
(4) The Agency may contact the requester for clarification about the request or regarding fee assessment. The Agency may toll the 20-day period as follows:
(i) One time while it is awaiting a response from the requester regarding clarification that it has reasonably requested from the requester; and
(ii) One or more times while the Agency is awaiting a response from the requester regarding fee assessment.
(5) If any record is denied, the letter shall state the right of the person requesting such record to appeal any adverse determination to the appropriate review official, in accordance with the provisions of 45 CFR 5.62.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration shall provide a determination of whether to provide expedited processing within 10 calendar days of receipt by the Division of Freedom of Information of the request and the required documentation of compelling need in accordance with § 20.44(b).
(d) If a court determines that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the Freedom of Information Act, the Agency's failure to comply with a time limit shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 55 FR 1405, Jan. 16, 1990; 59 FR 533, Jan. 5, 1994; 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.42
Aggregation of certain requests.
The Food and Drug Administration may aggregate certain requests by the same requester, or by a group of requesters acting in concert, if the requests involve clearly related matters and the agency reasonably believes that such requests actually constitute a single request which would otherwise satisfy the unusual circumstances specified in § 20.41(b)(3)(ii)(B). FDA may extend the time for processing aggregated requests in accordance with the unusual circumstances provisions of § 20.41.
[68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.43
Multitrack processing.
(a) Each Food and Drug Administration component is responsible for determining whether to use a multitrack system to process requests for records maintained by that component. A multitrack system provides two or more tracks for processing requests, based on the amount of work and/or time required for a request to be processed. The availability of multitrack processing does not affect expedited processing in accordance with § 20.44.
(b) If multitrack processing is not adopted by a particular agency component, that component will process all requests in a single track, ordinarily on a first-in, first-out basis.
(c) If a multitrack processing system is established by a particular agency component, that component may determine how many tracks to establish and the specific criteria for assigning requests to each track. Multiple tracks may be established for requests based on the amount of work and/or time required for a request to be processed.
(d) Requests assigned to a given track will ordinarily be processed on a first-in, first-out basis within that track.
(e) If a request does not qualify for the fastest processing track, the requester may be provided an opportunity to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for faster processing.
[68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.44
Expedited processing.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration will provide expedited processing of a request for records when the requester demonstrates a compelling need, or in other cases as determined by the agency. A compelling need exists when:
(1) A failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(2) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, there is a demonstrated urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity.
(b) A request for expedited processing made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be made by the specific individual who is subject to an imminent threat, or by a family member, medical or health care professional, or other authorized representative of the individual, and must demonstrate a reasonable basis for concluding that failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose a specific and identifiable imminent threat to the life or safety of the individual.
(c) A request for expedited processing made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must demonstrate that:
(1) The requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information to the general public and not merely to a narrow interest group;
(2) There is an urgent need for the requested information and that it has a particular value that will be lost if not obtained and disseminated quickly; however, a news media publication or broadcast deadline alone does not qualify as an urgent need, nor does a request for historical information; and
(3) The request for records specifically concerns identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government.
(d) All requests for expedited processing shall be filed in writing as provided by § 20.40. Each such request shall include information that demonstrates a reasonable basis for concluding that a compelling need exists within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this section and a certification that the information provided in the request is true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. Any statements made in support of a request for expedited processing are subject to the False Reports to the Government Act (18 U.S.C. 1001).
(e) The Director, Division of Freedom of Information, (or delegatee) will determine whether to grant a request for expedited processing within 10 days of receipt by the Division of Freedom of Information of all information required to make a decision.
(f) If the agency grants a request for expedited processing, the agency shall process the request as soon as practicable.
(g) If the agency denies a request for expedited processing, the agency shall process the request with other nonexpedited requests.
(h) If the agency denies a request for expedited processing, the requester may appeal the agency's decision by writing to the official identified in the denial letter.
[68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.45
Fees to be charged.
(a)
Categories of requests.
Paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section state, for each category of request, the type of fees that the Food and Drug Administration will generally charge. However, for each of these categories, the fees may be limited, waived, or reduced for the reasons given in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and in § 20.46 or for other reasons.
(1)
Commercial use request.
If the request is for a commercial use, the Food and Drug Administration will charge for the costs of search, review, and duplication. The Agency shall not assess search fees if the Agency fails to comply with any time limit, as described in § 20.41, if no unusual or exceptional circumstances apply to the processing of the request. If unusual circumstances, as outlined in § 20.41, apply and more than 5,000 pages are responsive to the request, the Food and Drug Administration may charge search fees if timely written notice has been made to the requester and the Agency has discussed
with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(2)
Educational and scientific institutions and news media.
If the request is from an educational institution or a noncommercial scientific institution, operated primarily for scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, and the request is not for a commercial use, the Food and Drug Administration will charge only for the duplication of documents. Also, the Food and Drug Administration will not charge the copying costs for the first 100 pages of duplication (or its cost equivalent of other media). The Agency shall not assess duplication fees if the Agency fails to comply with any time limit, as described in § 20.41, if no unusual or exceptional circumstances apply to the processing of the request. If unusual circumstances, as outlined in § 20.41, apply and more than 5,000 pages are responsive to the request, the Food and Drug Administration may charge duplication fees if timely written notice has been made to the requester and the Agency has discussed with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(3)
Other requests.
If the request is not the kind described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, then the Food and Drug Administration will charge only for the search and the duplication. Also, the Food and Drug Administration will not charge for the first 2 hours of search time or for the copying costs of the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent of other media). The Agency shall not assess search or duplication fees if the Agency fails to comply with any time limit, as described in § 20.41, if no unusual or exceptional circumstances apply to the processing of the request. If unusual circumstances, as outlined in § 20.41, apply and more than 5,000 pages are responsive to the request, the Food and Drug Administration may charge search or duplication fees if timely written notice has been made to the requester and the Agency has discussed with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(b)
General provisions.
(1) The Food and Drug Administration may charge search fees even if the records found are exempt from disclosure or if no records are found.
(2) If, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, there is no charge for the first 2 hours of search time, and those 2 hours are spent on a computer search, then the 2 free hours are the first 2 hours of the operator's own operation. If the operator spends less than 2 hours on the search, the total search fees will be reduced by the average hourly rate for the operator's time, multiplied by 2.
(3) If, under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, there is no charge for the first 100 pages of duplication, then those 100 pages are the first 100 pages of photocopies of standard size pages, or the first 100 pages of computer printout. If this method to calculate the fee reduction cannot be used, then the total duplication fee will be reduced by the normal charge for photocopying a standard size page, multiplied by 100.
(4) No charge will be made if the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fee.
(5) If it is determined that a requester (acting either alone or together with others) is breaking down a single request into a series of requests in order to avoid (or reduce) the fees charged, all these requests may be aggregated for purposes of calculating the fees charged.
(6) Interest will be charged on unpaid bills beginning on the 31st day following the day the bill was sent. Provisions in 45 CFR part 30, the Department of Health and Human Services regulations governing claims collection, will be used in assessing interest, administrative costs, and penalties, and in taking actions to encourage payment.
(7) Requesters may contact Agency Freedom of Information Act staff or the Freedom of Information Act Public
Liaison to assist in reformulating a request to meet their needs at lower cost.
(c)
Fee schedule.
The Food and Drug Administration charges the following fees in accordance with the regulations of the Department of Health and Human Services at 45 CFR part 5.
(1)
Manual searching for or reviewing of records.
When the search or review is performed by employees at grade GS-1 through GS-8 (or equivalent), an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-5, step 7, employee; when done by a GS-9 through GS-14 (or equivalent), an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-12, step 4, employee; and when done by a GS-15 or above (or equivalent), an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-15, step 7, employee. In each case, the hourly rate will be computed by taking the current hourly rate for the specified grade and step in the General Schedule Locality Pay Table for the Locality of Washington-Baltimore-Northern Virginia, DC-MD-VA-WV-PA, adding 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits, and rounding to the nearest whole dollar. When a search involves employees at more than one of these levels, the Food and Drug Administration will charge the rate appropriate for each.
(2)
Electronic searching.
Charges for the time spent by the operator to search the computer, database, or network, including development of any specialized programming required to perform the search, at the rate given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section plus the cost of any materials.
(3)
Photocopying standard size pages.
$0.10 per page. Freedom of Information Officers may charge lower fees for particular documents where:
(i) The document has already been printed in large numbers;
(ii) The program office determines that using existing stock to answer this request, and any other anticipated Freedom of Information requests, will not interfere with program requirements; and
(iii) The Freedom of Information Officer determines that the lower fee is adequate to recover the prorated share of the original printing costs.
(4)
Photocopying odd-size documents (such as punchcards or blueprints), or reproducing other records (such as tapes).
The actual costs of operating the machine, plus the actual cost of the materials used, plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(5)
Certifying that records are true copies.
This service is not required by the Freedom of Information Act. If the Food and Drug Administration agrees to provide certification, there is a $10 charge per certification.
(6)
Sending records by express mail or other special methods.
This service is not required by the Freedom of Information Act. If the Food and Drug Administration agrees to provide this service, the requester will be required to directly pay, or be directly charged by, the courier. The agency will not agree to any special delivery method that does not permit the requester to directly pay or be directly charged for the service.
(7)
Performing any other special service in connection with a request to which the Food and Drug Administration has agreed.
Actual costs of operating any machinery, plus actual cost of any materials used, plus charges for the time of the Food and Drug Administration's employees, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Procedures for assessing and collecting fees
—(1)
Agreement to pay.
The Food and Drug Administration generally assumes that a requester is willing to pay the fees charged for services associated with the request. The requester may specify a limit on the amount to be spent. If it appears that the fees will exceed the limit, the Food and Drug Administration will consult the requester to determine whether to proceed with the search.
(2)
Advance payment.
If a requester has failed to pay previous bills in a timely fashion, or if the Food and Drug Administration's initial review of the request indicates that the charges will exceed $250, the requester will be required to pay past due fees and/or the estimated fees, or a deposit, before the search for the requested records begins. In such cases, the requester will be notified promptly upon receipt of the request, and the administrative time limits prescribed in § 20.41 will begin only after there is an agreement with
the requester over payment of fees, or a decision that fee waiver or reduction is appropriate.
(3)
Billing and payment.
Ordinarily, the requester will be required to pay all fees before the Food and Drug Administration will furnish the records. At its discretion, the Food and Drug Administration may send the requester a bill along with or following the records. For example, the Food and Drug Administration may do this if the requester has a history of prompt payment. The Food and Drug Administration may also, at its discretion, aggregate the charges for certain time periods in order to avoid sending numerous small bills to frequent requesters, or to businesses or agents representing requesters. For example, the Food and Drug Administration might send a bill to such a requester once a month. Fees should be paid in accordance with the instructions furnished by the person who responds to the request.
[59 FR 533, Jan. 5, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003; 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.46
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(a)
Standard.
The Assistant Commissioner for Public Affairs (or delegatee) will waive or reduce the fees that would otherwise be charged if disclosure of the information meets both of the following tests:
(1) Is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government; and
(2) It is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. These two tests are explained in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Public interest.
Disclosure of information satisfies the first test only if it furthers the specific public interest of being likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of Government operations or activities, regardless of any other public interest it may further. In analyzing this question, the Food and Drug Administration will consider the following factors:
(1) Whether the records to be disclosed pertain to the operations or activities of the Federal Government;
(2) Whether disclosure of the records would reveal any meaningful information about Government operations or activities that is not already public knowledge;
(3) Whether disclosure will advance the understanding of the general public as distinguished from a narrow segment of interested persons. Under this factor, the Food and Drug Administration may consider whether the requester is in a position to contribute to public understanding. For example, the Food and Drug Administration may consider whether the requester has such knowledge or expertise as may be necessary to understand the information, and whether the requester's intended use of the information would be likely to disseminate the information to the public. An unsupported claim to be doing research for a book or article does not demonstrate that likelihood, while such a claim by a representative of the news media is better evidence; and
(4) Whether the contribution to public understanding will be a significant one, i.e., will the public's understanding of the Government's operations be substantially greater as a result of the disclosure.
(c)
Not primarily in the requester's commercial interest.
If disclosure passes the test of furthering the specific public interest described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Food and Drug Administration will determine whether disclosure also furthers the requester's commercial interest and, if so, whether this effect outweighs the advancement of that public interest. In applying this second test, the Food and Drug Administration will consider the following factors:
(1) Whether disclosure would further a commercial interest of the requester, or of someone on whose behalf the requester is acting. Commercial interests include interests relating to business, trade, and profit. Both profit and nonprofit-making corporations have commercial interests, as well as individuals, unions, and other associations. The interest of a representative of the news media in using the information for news dissemination purposes will not be considered a commercial interest.
(2) If disclosure would further a commercial interest of the requester,
whether that effect outweighs the advancement of the public interest as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Deciding between waiver and reduction.
If the disclosure of the information requested passes both tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Food and Drug Administration will normally waive fees. However, in some cases the Food and Drug Administration may decide only to reduce the fees. For example, the Food and Drug Administration may do this when disclosure of some but not all of the requested records passes the tests.
(e)
Procedure for requesting a waiver or reduction.
A requester must request a waiver or reduction of fees at the same time as the request for records. The requester should explain why a waiver or reduction is proper under the factors set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Only the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs may make the decision whether to waive or reduce the fees. If the Food and Drug Administration does not completely grant the request for a waiver or reduction, the denial letter will designate a review official. The requester may appeal the denial to that official. The appeal letter should address reasons for the Associate Commissioner's decision that are set forth in the denial letter.
[59 FR 534, Jan. 5, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 25286, 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.47
Situations in which confidentiality is uncertain.
In situations where the confidentiality of data or information is uncertain and there is a request for public disclosure, the Food and Drug Administration will consult with the person who has submitted or divulged the data or information or who would be affected by disclosure before determining whether or not such data or information is available for public disclosure.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.48
Judicial review of proposed disclosure.
Where the Food and Drug Administration consults with a person who will be affected by a proposed disclosure of data or information contained in Food and Drug Administration records pursuant to § 20.47, and rejects the person's request that part or all of the records not be made available for public disclosure, the decision constitutes final agency action that is subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. chapter 7. The person affected will be permitted 5 days after receipt of notification of such decision within which to institute suit in a United States District Court to enjoin release of the records involved. If suit is brought, the Food and Drug Administration will not disclose the records involved until the matter and all related appeals have been concluded.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 25286, 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.49
Denial of a request for records.
(a) A denial of a request for records, in whole or in part, shall be signed by the Director, Division of Freedom of Information (or delegatee).
(b) The name and title or position of each person who participated in the denial of a request for records shall be set forth in the letter denying the request. This requirement may be met by attaching a list of such individuals to the letter.
(c) A letter denying a request for records, in whole or in part, shall state the reasons for the denial, the appropriate review official and address to which the appeal should be sent, and that an appeal must be transmitted within 90 calendar days from the date of the adverse determination, in accordance with 45 CFR 5.61. The Agency will also make a reasonable effort to include in the letter an estimate of the volume of the records denied, unless providing such an estimate would harm an interest protected by an exemption under the Freedom of Information Act. This estimate will ordinarily be provided in terms of the approximate number of pages or some other reasonable measure. This estimate will not be provided if the volume of records denied is otherwise indicated through deletions on records disclosed in part.
The letter will also include contact information for the Freedom of Information Act Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 55 FR 1405, Jan. 16, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 25286, 25287, May 12, 2003; 87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.50
Nonspecific and overly burdensome requests.
The Food and Drug Administration will make every reasonable effort to comply fully with all requests for disclosure of nonexempt records. Nonspecific requests or requests for a large number of documents that require the deployment of a substantial amount of agency man-hours to search for and compile will be processed taking into account the staff-hours required, the tasks from which these resources must be diverted, the impact that this diversion will have upon the agency's consumer protection activities, and the public policy reasons justifying the requests. A decision on the processing of such a request for information shall be made after balancing the public benefit to be gained by the disclosure against the public loss that will result from diverting agency personnel from their other responsibilities. In any situation in which it is determined that a request for voluminous records would unduly burden and interfere with the operations of the Food and Drug Administration, the person making the request will be asked to be more specific and to narrow the request, and to agree on an orderly procedure for the production of the requested records, in order to satisfy the request without disproportionate adverse effects on agency operations.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.51
Referral to primary source of records.
Upon receipt of a request for a record or document which is contained in Food and Drug Administration files but which is available elsewhere at a lower cost, the person requesting the record or document shall be referred to the primary source of the record or document.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.52
Availability of records at National Technical Information Service.
The Food and Drug Administration is furnishing a number of records to the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5285 Port Royal Rd., Springfield, VA 22162, which reproduces and distributes such information to the public at cost. A single copy of each such record shall be available for public review at the Food and Drug Administration. All persons requesting copies of such records shall be answered by referring the person requesting the records to NTIS.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.53
Use of private contractor for copying.
The Food and Drug Administration may furnish requested records to a private contractor for copying after deletion of all nondisclosable data and information. Under these circumstances, the Food and Drug Administration will charge the person requesting the records for all of the fees involved pursuant to § 20.45.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 25286, 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.54
Request for review without copying.
(a) A person requesting disclosure of records shall be permitted an opportunity to review them without the necessity for copying them where the records involved contain only disclosable data and information. Under these circumstances, the Food and Drug Administration will charge only for the costs of searching for the records.
(b) Where a request is made for review of records without copying, and the records involved contain both disclosable and nondisclosable information, the records containing nondisclosable information shall first
be copied with the nondisclosable information blocked out and the Food and Drug Administration will charge for the costs of searching and copying.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.55
Indexing trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
Whenever the Food and Drug Administration denies a request for a record or portion thereof on the grounds that the record or portion thereof is exempt from public disclosure as trade secret or confidential commercial or financial data and information under § 20.61, and the person requesting the record subsequently contests the denial in the courts, the Food and Drug Administration will so inform the person affected, i.e., the person who submitted the record, and will require that such person intervene to defend the exempt status of the record. If a court requires the Food and Drug Administration to itemize and index such records, the Food and Drug Administration will so inform the person affected and will require that such person undertake the itemization and indexing of the records. If the affected person fails to intervene to defend the exempt status of the records and to itemize and index the disputed records, the Food and Drug Administration will take this failure into consideration in deciding whether that person has waived such exemption so as to require the Food and Drug Administration to promptly make the records available for public disclosure.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 59 FR 535, Jan. 5, 1994. Redesignated at 68 FR 25286, May 12, 2003]

# Subpart D—Exemptions
§ 20.60
Applicability of exemptions.
(a) The exemptions established in this subpart shall apply to all Food and Drug Administration records, except as provided in subpart E of this part. Accordingly, a record that is ordinarily available for public disclosure in accordance with the provisions in subpart F of this part or of another regulation cross-referenced in § 20.100(c) is not available for such disclosure to the extent that it falls within an exemption contained in this subpart, except as provided by the limitations on exemptions specified in subpart E of this part. For example, correspondence that is ordinarily disclosable under § 20.103 is not disclosable to the extent that it contains trade secrets exempt from disclosure under § 20.61 and is not subject to discretionary release under § 20.82.
(b) Where application of one or more exemptions results in a record being disclosable in part and nondisclosable in part, the rule established in § 20.22 shall apply.
§ 20.61
Trade secrets and commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential.
(a) A trade secret may consist of any commercially valuable plan, formula, process, or device that is used for the making, preparing, compounding, or processing of trade commodities and that can be said to be the end product of either innovation or substantial effort. There must be a direct relationship between the trade secret and the productive process.
(b) Commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential means valuable data or information which is used in one's business and is of a type customarily held in strict confidence or regarded as privileged and not disclosed to any member of the public by the person to whom it belongs.
(c) Data and information submitted or divulged to the Food and Drug Administration which fall within the definitions of a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information are not available for public disclosure.
(d) A person who submits records to the Government may designate part or all of the information in such records as exempt from disclosure under exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act. The person may make this designation either at the time the records are submitted to the Government or within a reasonable time thereafter. The designation must be in writing. Where a legend is required by a request for proposals or request for quotations, pursuant to 48 CFR 352.215-12, then that legend is necessary for
this purpose. Any such designation will expire 10 years after the records were submitted to the Government.
(e) The procedures in this paragraph apply to records on which the submitter has designated information as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. These procedures also apply to records that were submitted to the Food and Drug Administration when the agency has substantial reason to believe that information in the records could reasonably be considered exempt under exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act. Certain exceptions to these procedures are set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(1) When the Food and Drug Administration receives a request for such records and determines that disclosure may be required, the Food and Drug Administration will make reasonable efforts to notify the submitter about these facts. The notice will include a copy of the request, and it will inform the submitter about the procedures and time limits for submission and consideration of objections to disclosure. If the Food and Drug Administration must notify a large number of submitters, notification may be done by posting or publishing a notice in a place where the submitters are reasonably likely to become aware of it.
(2) The submitter has 10 working days from the date of the notice to object to disclosure of any part of the records and to state all bases for its objections. The Division of Freedom of Information may extend this period as appropriate and necessary.
(3) The Food and Drug Administration will give consideration to all bases that have been stated in a timely manner by the submitter. If the Food and Drug Administration decides to disclose the records, the Food and Drug Administration will notify the submitter in writing. This notice will briefly explain why the agency did not sustain the submitter's objections. The Food and Drug Administration will include with the notice a copy of the records about which the submitter objected, as the agency proposes to disclose them. The notice will state that the Food and Drug Administration intends to disclose the records 5 working days after the submitter receives the notice unless a U.S. District Court orders the agency not to release them.
(4) If a requester files suit under the Freedom of Information Act to obtain records covered by this paragraph, the Food and Drug Administration will promptly notify the submitter.
(5) Whenever the Food and Drug Administration sends a notice to a submitter under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Food and Drug Administration will notify the requester that the Food and Drug Administration is giving the submitter a notice and an opportunity to object. Whenever the Food and Drug Administration sends a notice to a submitter under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the Food and Drug Administration will notify the requester of this fact.
(f) The notice requirements in paragraph (e) of this section do not apply in the following situations:
(1) The Food and Drug Administration decided not to disclose the records;
(2) The information has previously been published or made generally available;
(3) Disclosure is required by a regulation issued after notice and opportunity for public comment, that specifies narrow categories of records that are to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, but in this case a submitter may still designate records as described in paragraph (d) of this section, and in exceptional cases, the Food and Drug Administration may, at its discretion, follow the notice procedures in paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) The information requested has not been designated by the submitter as exempt from disclosure when the submitter had an opportunity to do so at the time of submission of the information or within a reasonable time thereafter, unless the Food and Drug Administration has substantial reason to believe that disclosure of the information would result in competitive harm; or
(5) The designation appears to be obviously frivolous, but in this case the Food and Drug Administration will still give the submitter the written notice required by paragraph (e)(3) of this section (although this notice need not explain our decision or include a copy of the records), and the Food and Drug
Administration will notify the requester as described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 59 FR 535, Jan. 5, 1994; 87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.62
Inter- or intra-agency memoranda or letters.
Interagency or intra-agency memoranda or letters that would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Food and Drug Administration may be withheld from public disclosure except that factual information that is reasonably segregable in accordance with the rule established in § 20.22 is available for public disclosure. The deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.
[87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.63
Personnel, medical, and similar files, disclosure of which constitutes a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(a) The names or other information which would identify patients or research subjects in any medical or similar report, test, study, or other research project shall be deleted before the record is made available for public disclosure.
(b) The names and other information which would identify patients or research subjects should be deleted from any record before it is submitted to the Food and Drug Administration. If the Food and Drug Administration subsequently needs the names of such individuals, a separate request will be made.
(c) Requests for deletion of business or product names prior to disclosure of any record to the public shall not be granted on the ground of privacy, but such deletion may be justified under another exemption established in this subpart, e.g., the exemption for trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information under § 20.61.
(d) Names of individuals conducting investigations, studies, or tests on products or ingredients shall not be deleted prior to disclosure of any record to the public unless extraordinary circumstances are shown.
(e) A request for all records relating to a specific individual will be denied as a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy unless accompanied by the written consent of the individual named.
(f) The names and any information that would identify the voluntary reporter or any other person associated with an adverse event involving a human drug, biologic, or medical device product shall not be disclosed by the Food and Drug Administration or by a manufacturer in possession of such reports in response to a request, demand, or order. Information that would identify the voluntary reporter or persons identified in the report includes, but is not limited to, the name, address, institution, or any other information that would lead to the identities of the reporter or persons identified in a report. This provision does not affect disclosure of the identities of reporters required by a Federal statute or regulation to make adverse event reports. Disclosure of the identities of such reporters is governed by the applicable Federal statutes and regulations.
(1)
Exceptions.
(i) Identities may be disclosed if both the voluntary reporter and the person identified in an adverse event report or that person's legal representative consent in writing to disclosure, but neither FDA nor any manufacturer in possession of such reports shall be required to seek consent for disclosure from the voluntary reporter or the person identified in the adverse event report or that person's legal representative; or
(ii) Identities of the voluntary reporter and the person who experienced the reported adverse event may be disclosed pursuant to a court order in the course of medical malpractice litigation involving both parties; or (iii) The report, excluding the identities of any other individuals, shall be disclosed to the person who is the subject of the report upon request.
(2)
Preemption.
No State or local governing entity shall establish or continue in effect any law, rule, regulation, or other requirement that permits or requires disclosure of the identities of the voluntary reporter or
other person identified in an adverse event report except as provided in this section.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 16968, Apr. 3, 1995]
§ 20.64
Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes.
(a) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes may be withheld from public disclosure pursuant to the provisions of this section to the extent that disclosure of such records or information:
(1) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(2) Would deprive a person to a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(3) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(4) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis; and information furnished by a confidential source in the case of a record compiled by the Food and Drug Administration or any other criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation;
(5) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(6) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(b) Records include all records relating to regulatory enforcement action, including both administrative and court action, which have not been disclosed to any member of the public, including any person who is the subject of the investigation.
(c) Any record which is disclosed to any person, including any person who is the subject of a Food and Drug Administration investigation, and any data or information received from any person who is the subject of a Food and Drug Administration investigation relating to such investigation, is available for public disclosure at that time in accordance with the rule established in § 20.21, except that:
(1) Disclosure of such records shall be subject to the other exemptions established in this subpart and to the limitations on exemptions established in subpart E of this part.
(2) The record of a section 305 hearing shall be available for public disclosure only in accordance with the provisions of § 7.87 of this chapter.
(d) Records for law enforcement purposes shall be subject to the following rules:
(1) No such record is available for public disclosure prior to the consideration of regulatory enforcement action based upon that record's being closed, except as provided in § 20.82. The Commissioner will exercise his discretion to disclose records relating to possible criminal prosecution pursuant to § 20.82 prior to consideration of criminal prosecution being closed only very rarely and only under circumstances that demonstrate a compelling public interest.
(2) After the consideration of regulatory enforcement action is closed, such records shall be made available for public disclosure except to the extent that other exemptions from disclosure in this subpart are applicable. No statements of witnesses obtained through promises of confidentiality are available for public disclosure.
(3) The consideration of regulatory enforcement action based upon a particular record shall be deemed to be closed within the meaning of this section:
(i) If it relates to administrative action, when a final decision has been made not to take such action or such action has been taken and the matter has been concluded.
(ii) If it relates to court action, when a final decision has been made not to recommend such action to a United States attorney based upon that record, or a recommendation has been finally refused by a United States attorney, or court action has been instituted and the matter and all related
appeals have been concluded, or the statute of limitations runs.
(iii) If it relates to both administrative and court action, when the events described in both paragraph (d)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section have occurred.
(4) Prior to disclosure of any record specifically reflecting consideration of possible criminal prosecution of any individual, all names and other information that would identify an individual who was considered for criminal prosecution but who was not prosecuted shall be deleted unless the Commissioner concludes that there is a compelling public interest in the disclosure of such names.
(e) Names and other information that would identify a Food and Drug Administration employee shall be deleted from records prior to public disclosure only pursuant to § 20.32.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 59 FR 536, Jan. 5, 1994]
§ 20.65
National defense and foreign policy.
(a) Records or information may be withheld from public disclosure if they are:
(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy; and
(2) In fact properly classified under such Executive order.
(b) [Reserved]
[70 FR 41958, July 21, 2005]
§ 20.66
Internal personnel rules and practices.
Records or information may be withheld from public disclosure if they are related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Under this exemption, FDA may withhold records or information about routine internal agency practices and procedures. Under this exemption, the agency may also withhold internal records whose release would help some persons circumvent the law.
[70 FR 41958, July 21, 2005]
§ 20.67
Records exempted by other statutes.
Records or information may be withheld from public disclosure if a statute specifically allows the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to withhold them. FDA may use another statute to justify withholding records and information only if it absolutely prohibits disclosure, sets forth criteria to guide our decision on releasing material, or identifies particular types of matters to be withheld.
[70 FR 41958, July 21, 2005]

# Subpart E—Limitations on Exemptions
§ 20.80
Applicability of limitations on exemptions.
(a) The limitations on exemptions established in this subpart shall apply to all Food and Drug Administration records, except as specifically provided herein. Accordingly, a record that is ordinarily exempt from public disclosure in accordance with the provisions in subpart D of this part is available for such disclosure to the extent that it falls within a limitation on the exemption contained in this subpart. For example, an investigatory record that is ordinarily exempt from disclosure under § 20.64 is disclosable to Congress in accordance with the provisions of § 20.87.
(b) Disclosure of a record to any member of the public pursuant to the provisions in § 20.81, data and information previously disclosed to the public, in § 20.82, discretionary disclosure by the Commissioner, and in § 20.83, disclosure pursuant to a court order, shall involve the rule established in § 20.21 that the record shall be made available for disclosure to all members of the public who request it. Disclosure of a record only to the limited categories of persons and under the conditions specified in § 20.84, special government employees, in § 20.85, other Federal government departments and agencies, in § 20.86, in camera disclosure in administrative or court proceedings, in § 20.87(b), Congress, in § 20.88, State and local government officials, in § 20.89, foreign government officials, and in
§ 20.90, contractors, which does not result in disclosure of the record to any member of the public in an authorized manner, shall not invoke the rule established in § 20.21.
(c) Disclosure to government employees and special government employees of records exempt from public disclosure shall subject those persons to the same restrictions with respect to the disclosure of such records as any Food and Drug Administration employee.
(d) In the case of a record in a Privacy Act Record System, as defined in § 21.3(c) of this chapter:
(1) The availability to an individual, as defined in § 21.3(a), of a record about himself that is retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier and is contained in a Privacy Act Record System shall be subject to the special requirements of part 21 of this chapter (the privacy regulations) and shall not be subject to the exemptions in subpart D of this part except that where the system is exempt and the requested record is not available under § 21.61 of this chapter, the provisions of this part shall apply.
(2) The availability of a record about an individual to persons other than the individual who is the subject of the record shall be subject to the special requirements of part 21, subpart G, of this chapter (restrictions on disclosure in the privacy regulations), and shall not be subject to the limitations on exemptions in this subpart except as provided in part 21, subpart G, of this chapter.
§ 20.81
Data and information previously disclosed to the public.
(a) Any Food and Drug Administration record that is otherwise exempt from public disclosure pursuant to subpart D of this part is available for public disclosure to the extent that it contains data or information that have previously been disclosed in a lawful manner to any member of the public, other than an employee or consultant or pursuant to other commercial arrangements with appropriate safeguards for secrecy.
(1) For purposes of this section, an individual shall be deemed to be a consultant only if disclosure of the information was necessary in order to perform that specific consulting service and the purpose of the disclosure was solely to obtain that service. The number of consultants who have received such information shall have been limited to the number reasonably needed to perform that particular consulting service.
(2) For purposes of this section, other commercial arrangements shall include licenses, contracts, and similar legal relationships between business associates.
(3) For purposes of this section, data and information disclosed to clinical investigators or members of institutional review committees, whether required by regulations of the Food and Drug Administration, or made voluntarily, if accompanied by appropriate safeguards to assure secrecy and otherwise in accordance with this section, are not deemed to have been previously disclosed to any member of the public within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) Any statement relating to prior public disclosure is subject to the False Reports to the Government Act, 18 U.S.C. 1001.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 59 FR 536, Jan. 5, 1994; 68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.82
Discretionary disclosure by the Commissioner.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, disclose part or all of any Food and Drug Administration (FDA) record that is otherwise exempt from disclosure pursuant to subpart D of this part. As set forth in § 20.20(b), FDA will withhold requested information only if:
(1) The Agency reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in this part; or
(2) Disclosure is prohibited by law. FDA shall exercise its discretion to disclose such records whenever it determines that such disclosure is in the public interest, will promote the objectives of the Freedom of Information Act and the Agency, and is, for example, consistent with the rights of individuals to privacy, the property rights of persons in trade secrets, and the
need for the Agency to promote frank internal policy deliberations and to pursue its regulatory activities without disruption.
(b) The Commissioner shall not make available for public disclosure any record that is:
(1) Exempt from public disclosure pursuant to § 20.61.
(2) Exempt from public disclosure pursuant to § 20.63.
(3) Prohibited from public disclosure under statute.
(4) Contained in a Privacy Act Record System where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy or is otherwise in violation of 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), as applied in part 21, subpart G, of this chapter (restrictions on disclosure in the privacy regulations).
(c) Discretionary disclosure of a record pursuant to this section shall invoke the requirement that the record shall be disclosed to any person who requests it pursuant to § 20.21, but shall not set a precedent for discretionary disclosure of any similar or related record and shall not obligate the Commissioner to exercise his discretion to disclose any other record that is exempt from disclosure.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 70 FR 41958, July 21, 2005; 87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.83
Disclosure required by court order.
(a) Records of the Food and Drug Administration which the Commissioner has determined are not available for public disclosure, in the form of a regulation published or cross-referenced in this part, shall nevertheless be made available for public disclosure in compliance with a final court order requiring such disclosure.
(b) Where the Food and Drug Administration record ordered disclosed under paragraph (a) of this section is a record about an individual that is not available for public disclosure under § 20.63, the Food and Drug Administration shall attempt to notify the individual who is the subject of the record of the disclosure, by sending a notice to the individual's last known address.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply where the name or other personal identifying information is deleted prior to disclosure.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.84
Disclosure to consultants, advisory committees, State and local government officials commissioned pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 372(a), and other special government employees.
Data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be disclosed to Food and Drug Administration consultants, advisory committees, State and local government officials commissioned pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 372(a), and other special government employees for use only in their work with the Food and Drug Administration. Such persons are thereafter subject to the same restrictions with respect to the disclosure of such data and information as any other Food and Drug Administration employee.
§ 20.85
Disclosure to other Federal Government departments and agencies.
Any Food and Drug Administration (FDA) record otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be disclosed to other Federal Government departments and agencies, except that trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information prohibited from disclosure by 21 U.S.C. 331(j), 21 U.S.C. 360j(c), 21 U.S.C. 360ll(d), 21 U.S.C. 360nn(e), and 21 U.S.C. 387f(c) may be released only as provided by those sections. Any disclosure under this section shall be pursuant to a written agreement that the record shall not be further disclosed by the other department or agency except with the written permission of FDA.
[87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.86
Disclosure in administrative or court proceedings.
Data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be revealed in Food and Drug Administration (FDA) administrative proceedings, such as those pursuant to parts 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, and 19 of this chapter, or
court proceedings, where data or information are relevant. FDA will take appropriate measures, or request that appropriate measures be taken, to reduce disclosure to the minimum necessary under the circumstances.
[87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.87
Disclosure to Congress.
(a) All records of the Food and Drug Administration shall be disclosed to Congress upon an authorized request.
(b) An authorized request for Food and Drug Administration records by Congress shall be made by the chairman of a committee or subcommittee of Congress acting pursuant to committee business.
(c) An individual member of Congress who requests a record for his own use or on behalf of any constituent shall be subject to the same rules in this part that apply to any other member of the public.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 59 FR 536, Jan. 5, 1994]
§ 20.88
Communications with State and local government officials.
(a) A State or local government official commissioned by the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 372(a) shall have the same status with respect to disclosure of Food and Drug Administration records as any special government employee.
(b) Communications with State and local government officials with respect to law enforcement activities undertaken pursuant to a contract between the Food and Drug Administration and such officials shall be subject to the rules for public disclosure established in § 20.64.
(c) Communications with State and local government officials who are not commissioned pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 372(a) or under a contract to perform law enforcement activities shall have the same status as communications with any member of the public, except that:
(1) Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes by State and local government officials who perform counterpart functions to the Food and Drug Administration at the State and local level, and trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information obtained by such officials, which are voluntarily disclosed to the Food and Drug Administration as part of cooperative law enforcement and regulatory efforts, shall be exempt from public disclosure to the same extent to which the records would be so exempt pursuant to §§ 20.61 and 20.64, as if they had been prepared by or submitted directly to Food and Drug Administration employees, except that investigatory records shall be exempt from disclosure for a longer period of time if the State or local government officials so require as a condition of their furnishing the information to the Food and Drug Administration.
(2) Disclosure of investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes by the Food and Drug Administration to State and local government officials who perform counterpart functions to the Food and Drug Administratrion at the State and local level as part of cooperative law enforcement efforts does not invoke the rule established in § 20.21 that such records shall be made available for disclosure to all members of the public.
(d)(1) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs (or delegatee) may authorize the disclosure of confidential commercial information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration, or incorporated into Agency-prepared records, to State and local government officials as part of cooperative law enforcement or regulatory efforts, provided that:
(i) The State or local government agency has provided both a written statement establishing its authority to protect confidential commercial information from public disclosure and a written commitment not to disclose any such information provided without the written permission of the sponsor or written confirmation by the Food and Drug Administration that the information no longer has confidential status; and
(ii) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or the Commissioner's designee makes one or more of the following determinations:
(A) The sponsor of the product application has provided written authorization for the disclosure;
(B) Disclosure would be in the interest of public health by reason of the State or local government's possessing information concerning the safety, effectiveness, or quality of a product or information concerning an investigation, or by reason of the State or local government being able to exercise its regulatory authority more expeditiously than the Food and Drug Administration; or
(C) The disclosure is to a State or local government scientist visiting the Food and Drug Administration on the Agency's premises as part of a joint review or long-term cooperative training effort authorized under section 708 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the review is in the interest of public health, the Food and Drug Administration retains physical control over the information, the Food and Drug Administration requires the visiting State or local government scientist to sign a written commitment to protect the confidentiality of the information, and the visiting State or local government scientist provides a written assurance that he or she has no financial interest in the regulated industry of the type that would preclude participation in the review of the matter if the individual were subject to the conflict of interest rules applicable to the Food and Drug Administration advisory committee members under § 14.80(b)(1) of this chapter. Subject to all the foregoing conditions, a visiting State or local government scientist may have access to trade secret information, entitled to protection under section 301(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in those cases where such disclosures would be a necessary part of the joint review or training.
(2) Except as provided under paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section do not authorize the disclosure to State and local government officials of trade secret information concerning manufacturing methods and processes prohibited from disclosure by section 301(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless pursuant to an express written authorization provided by the submitter of the information.
(3) Any disclosure under this section of information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration or incorporated into agency-prepared records does not invoke the rule established in § 20.21 that such records shall be made available to all members of the public.
(e)(1) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or (delegatee), may authorize the disclosure to, or receipt from, an official of a State or local government agency of nonpublic, predecisional documents concerning the Food and Drug Administration's or the other Government agency's regulations or other regulatory requirements, or other nonpublic information relevant to either agency's activities, as part of efforts to improve Federal-State and/or Federal-local uniformity, cooperative regulatory activities, or implementation of Federal-State and/or Federal-local agreements, provided that:
(i) The State or local government agency has the authority to protect such nonpublic documents from public disclosure and will not disclose any such documents provided without the written confirmation by the Food and Drug Administration that the documents no longer have nonpublic status; and
(ii) The Commissioner (or delegatee) makes the determination that the exchange is reasonably necessary to improve Federal-State and/or Federal-local uniformity, cooperative regulatory activities, or implementation of Federal-State and/or Federal-local agreements.
(2) Any exchange under this section of nonpublic documents does not invoke the rule established at § 20.21 that such records shall be made available to all members of the public.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term
official of a State or local government agency
includes, but is not limited to, an agent contracted by the State or local government, and an employee of an organization of State or local officials having responsibility to facilitate harmonization of State or local standards and requirements in the Food and Drug Administration's areas of responsibility. For such officials, the statement and commitment required by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall be provided by
both the organization and the individual.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 63381, Dec. 8, 1995; 65 FR 11887, Mar. 7, 2000; 87 FR 55913, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.89
Communications with foreign government officials.
Communications with foreign government officials shall have the same status as communications with any member of the public, except that:
(a) Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes by foreign government officials who perform counterpart functions to the Food and Drug Administration in a foreign country, and trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information obtained by such officials, which are voluntarily disclosed to the Food and Drug Administration as part of cooperative law enforcement and regulatory efforts, shall be exempt from public disclosure to the same extent to which the records would be so exempt pursuant to §§ 20.61 and 20.64, as if they had been prepared by or submitted directly to Food and Drug Administration employees, except that investigatory records shall be exempt from disclosure for a longer period of time if the foreign government officials so require as a condition of their furnishing the information to the Food and Drug Administration.
(b) Disclosure of investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes by the Food and Drug Administration to foreign government officials who perform counterpart functions to the Food and Drug Administration in a foreign country as part of cooperative law enforcement efforts does not invoke the rule established in § 20.21 that such records shall be made available for disclosure to all members of the public.
(c)(1) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs, or any other officer or employee of the Food and Drug Administration whom the Commissioner may designate to act on his or her behalf for the purpose, may authorize the disclosure of confidential commercial information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration, or incorporated into agency-prepared records, to foreign government officials who perform counterpart functions to the Food and Drug Administration as part of cooperative law enforcement or regulatory efforts, provided that:
(i) The foreign government agency has provided both a written statement establishing its authority to protect confidential commercial information from public disclosure and a written commitment not to disclose any such information provided without the written permission of the sponsor or written confirmation by the Food and Drug Administration that the information no longer has confidential status; and
(ii) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or the Commissioner's designee makes one or more of the following determinations:
(A) The sponsor of the product application has provided written authorization for the disclosure;
(B) Disclosure would be in the interest of public health by reason of the foreign government's possessing information concerning the safety, efficacy, or quality of a product or information concerning an investigation; or
(C) The disclosure is to a foreign scientist visiting the Food and Drug Administration on the agency's premises as part of a joint review or long-term cooperative training effort authorized under section 708 of the act, the review is in the interest of public health, the Food and Drug Administration retains physical control over the information, the Food and Drug Administration requires the visiting foreign scientist to sign a written commitment to protect the confidentiality of the information, and the scientist provides a written assurance that he or she has no financial interest in the regulated industry of the type that would preclude participation in the review of the matter if the individual were subject to the conflict of interest rules applicable to the Food and Drug Administration advisory committee members under § 14.80(b)(1) of this chapter. Subject to all of the foregoing conditions, visiting foreign scientists may have access to trade secret information, entitled to protection under section 301(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), in those cases where such disclosures would be a necessary part of the joint review or training.
(2) Except as provided under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, this provision does not authorize the disclosure to foreign government officials of other countries of trade secret information concerning manufacturing methods and processes prohibited from disclosure by section 301(j) of the act, unless pursuant to an express written authorization provided by the submitter of the information.
(3) Any disclosure under this section of information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration or incorporated into agency-prepared records does not invoke the rule established in § 20.21 that such records shall be made available to all members of the public.
(d)(1) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs (or delegatee) may authorize the disclosure to, or receipt from, an official of a foreign government agency of nonpublic, predecisional documents concerning the Food and Drug Administration's or the other Government agency's regulations or other regulatory requirements, or other nonpublic information relevant to either agency's activities, as part of cooperative efforts to facilitate global harmonization of regulatory requirements, cooperative regulatory activities, or implementation of international agreements, provided that:
(i) The foreign government agency has the authority to protect such nonpublic documents from public disclosure and will not disclose any such documents provided without the written confirmation by the Food and Drug Administration that the documents no longer have nonpublic status; and
(ii) The Commissioner (or delegatee) makes the determination that the exchange is reasonably necessary to facilitate global harmonization of regulatory requirements, cooperative regulatory activities, or implementation of international agreements.
(2) Any exchange under this section of nonpublic documents does not invoke the rule established in § 20.21 that such records shall be made available to all members of the public.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term “official of a foreign government agency” includes, but is not limited to, employees (whether temporary or permanent) of and agents contracted by the foreign government, or by an international organization established by law, treaty, or other governmental action and having responsibility to facilitate global or regional harmonization of standards and requirements in FDA's areas of responsibility or to promote and coordinate public health efforts. For such officials, the statement and commitment required by paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be provided on behalf of both the organization and the individual.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 61603, Nov. 19, 1993; 60 FR 63382, Dec. 8, 1995; 65 FR 11888, Mar. 7, 2000; 87 FR 55914, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.90
Disclosure to contractors.
(a) Data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be disclosed to contractors with the Food and Drug Administration and their employees for use only in their work for the Food and Drug Administration. Contractors and their employees are thereafter subject to the same legal restrictions and penalties with respect to the disclosure of such data and information as Food and Drug Administration employees.
(b) A written agreement between the Food and Drug Administration and any contractor shall be entered into before data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be disclosed to the contractor. The contractor shall agree to establish and follow security precautions considered by the Food and Drug Administration to be necessary to ensure proper and confidential handling of the data and information. The written agreement shall include, where appropriate, provisions establishing:
(1) Restrictions on access to the data and information by the contractor, its employees, or other persons;
(2) Physical storage requirements;
(3) Requirements for the handling and accountability of the data and information by the contractor and its employees;
(4) Limitations on reproduction, transmission, and disclosure of the data and information;
(5) A requirement of advance approval by the Food and Drug Administration of the use by the contractor of subcontractors, vendors, or suppliers;
(6) Procedures to be followed when the contractor employs time-shared computer operations;
(7) Methods of destroying source documents or related waste material; and
(8) The period during which the contractor may retain such data and information.
§ 20.91
Use of data or information for administrative or court enforcement action.
Nothing in this part or this chapter shall prevent the Food and Drug Administration from using any data or information, whether obtained voluntarily or involuntarily and whether or not it is available for public disclosure, as the basis for taking any administrative or court enforcement action within its jurisdiction. Data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure are nevertheless available for public disclosure to the extent necessary to effectuate such action, e.g., the brand name, code designation, and distribution information are released when a product is recalled.

# Subpart F—Availability of Specific Categories of Records
§ 20.100
Applicability; cross-reference to other regulations.
(a) The provisions set forth in this subpart or cross-referenced in paragraph (c) of this section state the way in which specific categories of Food and Drug Administration records are handled upon a request for public disclosure. The exemptions established in subpart D of this part and the limitations on exemptions established in subpart E of this part shall be applicable to all Food and Drug Administration records, as provided in §§ 20.60 and 20.80. Accordingly, a record that is ordinarily available for public disclosure in accordance with this part or under other regulations is not available for such disclosure to the extent that it falls within an exemption contained in subpart D of this part except as provided by the limitations on exemptions specified in subpart E of this part.
(b) The Commissioner, on his own initiative or on the petition of any interested person, may amend this subpart or promulgate and cross-reference additional regulations to state the status of additional categories of documents to settle pending questions or to reflect court decisions.
(c) In addition to the provisions of this part, rules on the availability of the following specific categories of Food and Drug Administration records are established by regulations in this chapter:
(1) Section 305 hearing records, in § 7.87(c) of this chapter.
(2) Flavor ingredient records and notes, in § 101.22(i)(4)(iv) of this chapter.
(3) Environmental assessments; finding of no significant impact, in § 25.51 of this chapter, or draft and final environmental impact statements, in § 25.52 of this chapter.
(4) Color additive petitions, in § 71.15 of this chapter.
(5) Food standard temporary permits, in § 130.17(k) of this chapter.
(6) Information on thermal processing of low-acid foods packaged in hermetically sealed containers, in §§ 108.25(k) and 108.35(l) of this chapter.
(7) Food additive petitions, in §§ 171.1(h) and 571.1(h) of this chapter.
(8) Action levels for natural and unavoidable defects in food for human use, in § 110.110(e) of this chapter.
(9) Drug establishment registrations and drug listings, in § 207.81 of this chapter.
(10) Investigational new animal drug notices, in § 514.12 of this chapter.
(11) New animal drug application files, in § 514.11 of this chapter.
(12) Investigational new animal drug notice and a new animal drug application file for an antibiotic drug, in § 514.10 of this chapter.
(13) Methadone patient records, in § 291.505(g) of this chapter.
(14) Investigational new drug notice, in § 312.130 of this chapter.
(15) Labeling for and lists of approved new drug applications, in § 314.430 of this chapter.
(16) Master file for a new drug application, in § 312.420 of this chapter.
(17) New drug application file, in § 314.430 of this chapter.
(18) Data and information submitted for in vitro diagnostic products, in § 809.4 of this chapter.
(19) Data and information submitted for OTC drug review, in § 330.10(a)(2) of this chapter.
(20)-(22) [Reserved]
(23) Investigational new drug notice for a biological product, in § 601.50 of this chapter.
(24) Applications for biologics licenses for biological products, in § 601.51 of this chapter.
(25) Cosmetic establishment registrations, in § 710.7 of this chapter.
(26) Cosmetic product ingredient and cosmetic raw material composition statements, § 720.8 of this chapter.
(27) Cosmetic product experience reports, in § 730.7 of this chapter.
(28) Device premarket notification submissions, in § 807.95 of this chapter.
(29) Electronic product information, in §§ 1002.4 and 1002.42 of this chapter.
(30) Data and information submitted to the Commissioner or to classification panels in connection with the classification or reclassification of devices intended for human use, in § 860.5 of this chapter.
(31) Data and information submitted in offers to develop a proposed performance standard for medical devices, in § 861.26 of this chapter.
(32) Investigational device exemptions in § 812.38 of this chapter.
(33) Health claims petitions, in § 101.70 of this chapter.
(34) Premarket approval application, in § 814.9 of this chapter.
(35) Report of certain adverse experiences with a medical device, in § 803.9 of this chapter.
(36) Disqualification determination of an institutional review board, in § 56.122 of this chapter.
(37) Disqualification determination of a nonclinical laboratory, in § 58.213 of this chapter.
(38) Minutes or records regarding a public advisory committee, in § 14.65(c) of this chapter.
(39) Data submitted regarding persons receiving an implanted pacemaker device or lead, in § 805.25 of this chapter.
(40) Humanitarian device exemption application, in § 814.122 of this chapter.
(41) Premarket notifications for food contact substances, in § 170.102 of this chapter.
(42) Registration of food facilities, in § 1.243 of this chapter.
(43) Minor-use or minor-species (MUMS) drug designations, in § 516.52 of this chapter.
(44) Minor-species drug index listings, in § 516.171 of this chapter.
(45) Postmarket notifications of a permanent discontinuance or an interruption in manufacturing of certain drugs or biological products, in §§ 310.306, 314.81(b)(3)(iii), and 600.82 of this chapter.
(46) Generally recognized as safe (GRAS) notices, in part 170, subpart E and part 570, subpart E of this chapter.
(47) Requests to establish or amend import tolerances, in § 510.205 of this chapter.
(48) Status reports of postmarketing study commitments in §§ 314.81(b)(2)(vii)(b) and 601.70(e) of this chapter.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 19989, Apr. 15, 1977; 42 FR 42526, Aug. 28, 1977; 42 FR 58889, Nov. 11, 1977; 43 FR 32993, July 28, 1978; 51 FR 22475, June 19, 1986; 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 58 FR 2533, Jan. 6, 1993; 59 FR 536, Jan. 5, 1994; 61 FR 33244, June 26, 1996; 62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997; 64 FR 56448, Oct. 20, 1999; 67 FR 13717, Mar. 26, 2002; 67 FR 35729, May 21, 2002; 68 FR 58965, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 41017, July 26, 2007; 72 FR 69118, Dec. 6, 2007; 80 FR 38938, July 8, 2015; 81 FR 45409, July 14, 2016; 81 FR 55046, Aug. 17, 2016; 81 FR 60212, Aug. 31, 2016; 86 FR 52410, Sept. 21, 2021; 87 FR 55914, Sept. 13, 2022]
§ 20.101
Administrative enforcement records.
(a) All Food and Drug Administration records relating to administrative enforcement action disclosed to any member of the public, including the person who is the subject of such action, are available for public disclosure at the time such disclosure is first made. Such records include correspondence with companies following factory inspection, recall or detention requests, notice of refusal of admission of an imported product, regulatory letters, information letters, Forms FD-483 and FD-2275 furnished to companies after factory inspection, and similar records.
(b) To the extent that any of such records fall within the exemption for investigatory records established in § 20.64, the Commissioner determines
that they are subject to discretionary release pursuant to § 20.82.
(c) Records relating to administrative enforcement action that are not disclosed to any member of the public constitute investigatory records that are subject to the rules for disclosure established in § 20.64. For example, an establishment inspection report is an investigatory record and thus subject to § 20.64 except insofar as the Commissioner exercises his discretion to release it pursuant to § 20.82.
§ 20.102
Court enforcement records.
(a) All records and documents filed in the courts are available for public disclosure unless the court orders otherwise. The Food and Drug Administration will make available for public disclosure such records or documents if the agency can determine that it has an accurate copy of the actual record or document filed in the court. If the Food and Drug Administration cannot determine whether it has an accurate copy of such a record or document, the person requesting a copy shall be referred to the court involved.
(b) After a recommendation for court action has been finally refused by a United States attorney, the correspondence with the United States attorney and the Department of Justice with respect to that recommendation, including the pleadings recommended for filing with the court, is available for public disclosure. Prior to disclosure of any record specifically reflecting consideration of possible criminal prosecution of any individual, all names and other information that would identify an individual who was considered for criminal prosecution but who was not prosecuted shall be deleted unless the Commissioner concludes that there is a compelling public interest in the disclosure of such names.
§ 20.103
Correspondence.
(a) All correspondence to and from members of the public, members of Congress, organization or company officials, or other persons, except members of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government and special government employees, is available for public disclosure.
(b) Any such correspondence is available for public disclosure at the time that it is sent or received by the Food and Drug Administration unless a different time for such disclosure is specified in other rules established or cross-referenced in this part, e.g., correspondence relating to an IND notice or an NDA in § 314.430 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 20.104
Summaries of oral discussions.
(a) All written summaries of oral discussions, whether in person or by telephone, with members of the public, members of Congress, organization or company officials, or other persons, except members of the Executive Branch of the Federal government or special government employees, are available for public disclosure.
(b) Any such summary is available for public disclosure at the time that it is prepared by the Food and Drug Administration unless a different time for such disclosure is specified in other rules established or cross-referenced in this part, e.g., summaries of oral discussions relating to a food additive petition in § 171.1(h)(3) of this chapter.
(c) If more than one summary of an oral discussion exists in a Food and Drug Administration file, all such summaries shall be disclosed in response to any request for such summary.
§ 20.105
Testing and research conducted by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration.
(a) Any list that may be prepared by the Food and Drug Administration of testing and research being conducted by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration is available for public disclosure.
(b) Any contract relating to agency testing and research, and any progress report relating thereto, is available for public disclosure.
(c) The results of all testing or research conducted by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration, such as toxicological testing, compliance assays, methodology studies, and product testing, are available for public disclosure when the final report is complete and accepted by the
responsible Food and Drug Administration official, after deletion of any information that would reveal confidential investigative techniques and procedures, e.g., the use of “markers” to document adulteration of a product. If such results are disclosed in an authorized manner to any member of the public before the final report is available, they are immediately available for public disclosure to any member of the public who requests them.
(d) Access to all raw data, slides, worksheets, and other similar working materials shall be provided at the same time that the final report is disclosed.
§ 20.106
Studies and reports prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration.
(a) The following types of reports and studies prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration are available for public disclosure upon their acceptance by the responsible agency official:
(1) Quarterly and annual reports of the agency.
(2) External investigations or review of agency needs and performance.
(3) Surveys, compilations, and summaries of data and information.
(4) Consumer surveys.
(5) Compliance surveys.
(6) Compliance programs, except that names of specific firms, the location of specific activities, and details about sampling numbers or sizes shall be deleted until implementation of the program is completed.
(7) Work plans prepared by Food and Drug Administration centers, field offices, and other components, except that names of specific firms, the location of specific activities, and details about sampling numbers or sizes shall be deleted until implementation of the plan is completed.
(b) The following types of reports and studies prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration are not available for public disclosure:
(1) Internal audits of agency needs and performance.
(2) Records relating to the internal planning and budget process.
(3) Legislative proposals or comments prior to submission to Congress.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 8995, Mar. 6, 1985]
§ 20.107
Food and Drug Administration manuals.
(a) Food and Drug Administration administrative staff manuals and instructions that affect a member of the public are available for public disclosure. An index of all such manuals is available by writing to the Division of Freedom of Informationat the address located on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov.
; or by visiting the Division of Freedom of Information Public Reading Room, located in rm. 1050, at the same address. The index and all manuals created by the agency on or after November 1, 1996, will be made available through the Internet at
http://www.fda.gov.
(b) Manuals relating solely to internal personnel rules and practices are not available for public disclosure except to the extent that the Commissioner determines that they should be disclosed pursuant to § 20.82.
(c) All Food and Drug Administration action levels which are used to determine when the agency will take regulatory action against a violative product, limits of sensitivity and variability of analytical methods which are used in determining whether a product violates the law, and direct reference levels above which Food and Drug Administration field offices may request legal action directly to the office of the General Counsel, are available for public disclosure.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 46 FR 14340, Feb. 27, 1981; 68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 20.108
Agreements between the Food and Drug Administration and other departments, agencies, and organizations.
(a) All written agreements and understandings signed by the Food and Drug Administration and other departments, agencies, and organizations are available for public disclosure.
(b) All written agreements and memoranda of understanding between FDA and any entity, including, but not
limited to other departments, Agencies, and organizations will be made available through the Food and Drug Administration Web site at
http://www.fda.gov
once finalized.
(c) Agreements and understandings signed by officials of FDA with respect to activities of the Office of Criminal Investigations are exempt from the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Although such agreements and understandings will not be made available through the FDA Web site, these agreements will be available for disclosure in response to a request from the public after deletion of information that would disclose confidential investigative techniques or procedures, or information that would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 58 FR 48794, 48796, Sept. 20, 1993; 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 77 FR 50591, Aug. 22, 2012]
§ 20.109
Data and information obtained by contract.
(a) All data and information obtained by the Food and Drug Administration by contract, including all progress reports pursuant to a contract, are available for public disclosure when accepted by the responsible agency official except to the extent that they remain subject to an exemption established in subpart D of this part, e.g., they relate to law enforcement matters as provided in § 20.88(b).
(b) Upon the awarding of a contract by the Food and Drug Administration, the technical proposal submitted by the successful offeror will be available for public disclosure. All cost proposals and the technical proposals of unsuccessful offerors submitted in response to a request for proposals are exempt from disclosure as confidential commercial or financial information pursuant to § 20.61.
§ 20.110
Data and information about Food and Drug Administration employees.
(a) The name, title, grade, position description, salary, work address, and work telephone number for every Food and Drug Administration employee are available for public disclosure. The home address and home telephone number of any such employee are not available for public disclosure.
(b) Statistics on the prior employment experience of present agency employees, and subsequent employment of past agency employees, are available for public disclosure.
§ 20.111
Data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration.
(a) The provisions of this section shall apply only to data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration, whether in the course of a factory inspection or at any other time, and not as a part of any petition, application, master file, or other required submission or request for action. Data and information that may be required to be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration but that are submitted voluntarily instead are not subject to the provisions of this section and will be handled as if they had been required to be submitted.
(b) A determination that data or information submitted voluntarily will be held in confidence and will not be available for public disclosure shall be made only in the form of a regulation published or cross-referenced in this part.
(c) The following data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration are available for public disclosure unless extraordinary circumstances are shown:
(1) All safety, effectiveness, and functionality data and information for a marketed ingredient or product, except as provided in § 330.10(a)(2) of this chapter for OTC drugs.
(2) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 for trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
(3) Adverse reaction reports, product experience reports, consumer complaints, and other similar data and information shall be disclosed as follows:
(i) If submitted by a consumer or user of the product, the record is available for public disclosure after deletion of names and other information that
would identify the person submitting the information.
(ii) If submitted by the manufacturer of the product, the record is available for public disclosure after deletion of:
(
a
) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product.
(
b
) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician or hospital or other institution.
(
c
) Names and any other information that would identify the manufacturer or the brand designation of the product, but not the type of product or its ingredients.
(iii) If submitted by a third party, such as a physician or hospital or other institution, the record is available for public disclosure after deletion of:
(
a
) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product.
(
b
) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician or hospital or other institution.
(iv) If obtained through a Food and Drug Administration investigation, the record shall have the same status as the initial report which led to the investigation, i.e., it shall be disclosed in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(v) Any compilation of data, information, and reports prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this section is available for public disclosure.
(vi) If a person requests a copy of any such record relating to a specific individual or a specific incident, such request will be denied unless accompanied by the written consent to such disclosure of the person who submitted the report to the Food and Drug Administration and the individual who is the subject of the report. The record will be disclosed to the individual who is the subject of the report upon request.
(4) A list of all ingredients contained in a food or cosmetic, whether or not it is in descending order of predominance, or a list of all active ingredients and any inactive ingredients previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 contained in a drug, or a list of all ingredients or components in a device.
(5) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61.
(d) The following data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61:
(1) All safety, effectiveness, and functionality data and information for a developmental ingredient or product that has not previously been disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81.
(2) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures.
(3) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.
(4) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.
(e) For purposes of this regulation, safety, effectiveness, and functionality data include all studies and tests of an ingredient or a product on animals and humans and all studies and tests on the ingredient or product for identity, stability, purity, potency, bioavailability, performance, and usefulness.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003]
§ 20.112
Voluntary drug experience reports submitted by physicians and hospitals.
(a) A voluntary drug experience report to the Food and Drug Administration on FDA Form 3500 shall be handled in accordance with the rules established in § 20.111(c)(3)(iii).
(b) If a person requests a copy of any such record relating to a specific individual or a specific incident, such request will be denied unless accompanied by the written consent to such disclosure of the person who submitted the report to the Food and Drug Administration and the individual who is the subject of the report.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 62 FR 52249, Oct. 7, 1997]
§ 20.113
Voluntary product defect reports.
Voluntary reports of defects in products subject to the jurisdiction of the Food and Drug Administration are available for public disclosure:
(a) If the report is submitted by the manufacturer, after deletion of data and information falling within the exemptions established in § 20.61 for trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information and in § 20.63 for personal privacy.
(b) If the report is submitted by any person other than the manufacturer, after deletion of names and other information that would identify the person submitting the report and any data or information falling within the exemption established in § 20.63 for personal privacy.
§ 20.114
Data and information submitted pursuant to cooperative quality assurance agreements.
Data and information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to a cooperative quality assurance agreement shall be handled in accordance with the rules established in § 20.111.
§ 20.115
Product codes for manufacturing or sales dates.
Data or information in Food and Drug Administration files which provide a means for deciphering or decoding a manufacturing date or sales date or use date contained on the label or in labeling or otherwise used in connection with a product subject to the jurisdiction of the Food and Drug Administration are available for public disclosure.
§ 20.116
Drug and device registration and listing information.
Information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to section 510(a) through (j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act shall be subject only to the special disclosure provisions established in §§ 207.81 and 807.37 of this chapter.
[81 FR 60212, Aug. 31, 2016]
§ 20.117
New drug information.
(a) The following computer printouts are available for public inspection in the Food and Drug Administration's Freedom of Information Public Room:
(1) A numerical listing of all new drug applications and abbreviated new drug applications approved since 1938, showing the NDA number, the trade name, the applicant, the approval date, and, where applicable, the date the approval was withdrawn and the date the Food and Drug Administration was notified that marketing of the product was discontinued.
(2) A numerical listing of all new drug applications and abbreviated new drug applications approved since 1938 which are still approved, showing the same information as is specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section except that it does not show a withdrawal date.
(3) A listing of new drug applications, abbreviated new drug applications, which were approved since 1938 and which are still approved, covering marketed prescription drug products except prescription drug products covered by applications deemed approved under the Drug Amendments of 1962 and not yet determined to be effective in the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation program. The listing includes the name of the active ingredient, the type of dosage form, the route of administration, the trade name of the product, the name of the application holder, and the strength or potency of the product. The listing also includes, for each active ingredient in a particular dosage form for which there is more than one approved application, an evaluation of the therapeutic equivalence of the drug products covered by such applications.
(b) Other computer printouts containing IND and NDA information are
available to the extent that they do not reveal data or information prohibited from disclosure under §§ 20.61, 312.130, and 314.430 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 72608, Oct. 31, 1980; 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 20.118
Advisory committee records.
All advisory committee records shall be handled in accordance with the rules established in parts 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 19 of this chapter.
§ 20.119
Lists of names and addresses.
Names and addresses of individuals in Food and Drug Administration records shall not be sold or rented. Names and addresses shall not be disclosed if disclosure is prohibited as a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, e.g., lists of names and home addresses of Food and Drug Administration employees, which shall not be disclosed under § 20.110.
§ 20.120
Records available in Food and Drug Administration Public Reading Rooms.
(a) The Freedom of Information Staff and the Dockets Management Staff Public Reading Room are located at the same address. Both are located in Rm. 1061, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20852. The telephone number for the Docket Management Staff is 240-402-7500; the telephone number for the Freedom of Information Staff's Public Reading Room is located at the address on the Agency's website at
https://www.fda.gov.
Both public reading rooms are open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal public holidays.
(b) The following records are available at the Division of Freedom of Information Public Reading Room:
(1) A guide for making requests for records or information from the Food and Drug Administration;
(2) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;
(3) Food and Drug Administration records which have been released to any person in response to a Freedom of Information request and which the agency has determined have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records;
(4) Indexes of records maintained in the Division of Freedom of Information Public Reading Room; and
(5) Such other records and information as the agency determines are appropriate for inclusion in the public reading room.
(c) The following records are available in the Dockets Management Staff's Public Reading Room:
(1) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, as well as orders, made in the adjudication of cases;
(2) Statements of policy and interpretation adopted by the agency that are still in force and not published in the
Federal Register
;
(3) Indexes of records maintained in the Dockets Management Staff's Public Reading Room; and
(4) Such other records and information as the agency determines are appropriate for inclusion in the public reading room.
(d) The agency will make reading room records created by the Food and Drug Administration on or after November 1, 1996, available electronically through the Internet at the agency's World Wide Web site which can be found at
http://www.fda.gov.
At the agency's discretion, the Food and Drug Administration may also make available through the Internet such additional records and information it believes will be useful to the public.
[68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003; 68 FR 65392, Nov. 20, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014; 87 FR 55914, Sept. 13, 2022; 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023]
Pt. 21

# PART 21—PROTECTION OF PRIVACY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
21.1
Scope.
21.3
Definitions.
21.10
Policy concerning records about individuals.

# Subpart B—Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems
21.20
Procedures for notice of Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems.
21.21
Changes in systems and new systems.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Specific Categories of Records
21.30
Records of contractors.
21.31
Records stored by the National Archives and Records Administration.
21.32
Personnel records.
21.33
Medical records.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Notification of and Access to Records in Privacy Act Record Systems
21.40
Procedures for submitting requests for notification and access.
21.41
Processing of requests.
21.42
Responses to requests.
21.43
Access to requested records.
21.44
Verification of identity.
21.45
Fees.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Requests for Amendment of Records
21.50
Procedures for submitting requests for amendment of records.
21.51
Responses to requests for amendment of records.
21.52
Administrative appeals of refusals to amend records.
21.53
Notation and disclosure of disputed records.
21.54
Amended or disputed records received from other agencies.

# Subpart F—Exemptions
21.60
Policy.
21.61
Exempt systems.
21.65
Access to records in exempt systems.

# Subpart G—Disclosure of Records in Privacy Act Record Systems to Persons Other Than the Subject Individual
21.70
Disclosure and intra-agency use of records in Privacy Act Record Systems; no accounting required.
21.71
Disclosure of records in Privacy Act Record Systems; accounting required.
21.72
Individual consent to disclosure of records to other persons.
21.73
Accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and relevance of records disclosed from Privacy Act Record Systems.
21.74
Providing notice that a record is disputed.
21.75
Rights of legal guardians.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 371; 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a.

# Source:
42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 21.1
Scope.
(a) This part establishes procedures to implement the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). It applies to records about individuals that are maintained, collected, used, or disclosed by the Food and Drug Administration and contained in Privacy Act Record Systems.
(b) This part does not:
(1) Apply to Food and Drug Administration record systems that are not Privacy Act Record Systems or make available to an individual records that may include references to him but that are not retrieved by his name or other personal identifier, whether or not contained in a Privacy Act Record System. part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) and other regulations referred to therein determine when records are made available in such cases.
(2) Make any records available to persons other than (i) individuals who are the subjects of the records, (ii) persons accompanying such individuals under § 21.43, (iii) persons provided records pursuant to individual consent under § 21.72, or (iv) persons acting on behalf of such individuals as legal guardians under § 21.75. Part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) and other regulations referred to therein determine when Food and Drug Administration records are disclosable to members of the public generally. Subpart G of this part limits the provisions of part 20 of this chapter with respect to disclosures of records about individuals from Privacy Act Record Systems to persons other than individuals who are the subjects of the records.
(3) Make available information compiled by the Food and Drug Administration in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings. The availability of such information to any member of the public, including any subject individual or party to such litigation or proceeding shall be governed by applicable constitutional principles, rules of discovery, and part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations).
(4) Apply to personnel records maintained by the Division of Human Resources Management, Food and Drug Administration, except as provided in § 21.32. Such records are subject to regulations of the Office of Personnel Management in 5 CFR parts 293, 294, and 297.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985]
§ 21.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Individual
means a natural living person who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. Individual does not include sole proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations engaged in the production or distribution of products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration or with which the Food and Drug Administration has business dealings. Any such business enterprise that is identified by the name of one or more individuals is not an individual within the meaning of this part. Employees of regulated business enterprises are considered individuals. Accordingly, physicians and other health professionals who are engaged in business as proprietors of establishments regulated by the Food and Drug Administration are not considered individuals; however, physicians and other health professionals who are engaged in clinical investigations, employed by regulated enterprises, or the subjects of records concerning their own health, e.g., exposure to excessive radiation, are considered individuals. Food and Drug Administration employees, consultants, and advisory committee members, State and local officials, and consumers are considered individuals.
(b)
Records about individuals
means items, collections, or groupings of information about individuals contained in Privacy Act Record Systems, including, but not limited to education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal history, or employment history, that contain names or personal identifiers.
(c)
Privacy Act Record System
means a system of records about individuals under the control of the Food and Drug Administration from which information is retrieved by individual names or other personal identifiers. The term includes such a system of records whether subject to a notice published by the Food and Drug Administration, the Department, or another agency. Where records are retrieved only by personal identifiers other than individual names, a system of records is not a Privacy Act Record System if the Food and Drug Administration cannot, by reference to information under its control, or by reference to records of contractors that are subject to this part under § 21.30, ascertain the identity of individuals who are the subjects of the records.
(d)
Personal identifiers
includes individual names, identifying numbers, symbols, or other identifying designations assigned to individuals.
Personal identifiers
does not include names, numbers, symbols, or other identifying designations that identify products, establishments, or actions.
(e)
Personnel records
means any personal information maintained in a Privacy Act Record System that is needed for personnel management programs or processes such as staffing, employee development, retirement, and grievances and appeals.
(f)
Department
means Department of Health and Human Services.
§ 21.10
Policy concerning records about individuals.
Information about individuals in Food and Drug Administration records shall be collected, maintained, used, and disseminated so as to protect the right to privacy of the individual to the fullest possible extent consistent with laws relating to disclosure of information to the general public, the law enforcement responsibilities of the agency, and administrative and program management needs.

# Subpart B—Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems
§ 21.20
Procedures for notice of Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration shall issue in the
Federal Register
on or before August 30 of each year a notice concerning each Privacy Act Record System as defined in § 21.3(c) that is not covered by a notice published by the Department, the Office of Personnel Management, or another agency.
(b) The notice shall include the following information:
(1) The name and location(s) of the system.
(2) The categories of individuals about whom records are maintained in the system.
(3) The categories of records maintained in the system.
(4) The authority for the system.
(5) Each routine use of the records contained in the system (i.e., use outside the Department of Health and Human Services that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected and described in the notice) including the categories of users and the purposes of such use.
(6) The policies and practices of the Food and Drug Administration regarding storage, retrievability (i.e., how the records are indexed and what intra-agency uses are made of the records), access controls, retention, and disposal of the records in that system.
(7) The title and business address of the official who is responsible for the system of records.
(8) The notification procedure, i.e., the address of the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator, whom any individual can contact to seek notification whether the system contains a record about him/her.
(9) The record access and contest procedures, which shall be the same as the notification procedure except that a reference shall be included to any exemption from access and contest.
(10) Where any records in the system are subject to an exemption under § 21.61, a reference to this exemption.
(11) The categories of sources of records in the system.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981]
§ 21.21
Changes in systems and new systems.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration shall notify the designated Department official, the Office of Management and Budget (Information Systems Division), and the Congress of proposals to change or establish Privacy Act Record Systems in accordance with procedures of the Department and the Office of Management and Budget.
(b) The Food and Drug Administration shall issue a notice, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and § 21.20(b), of any change in a Privacy Act Record System which:
(1) Increases the number or types of individuals about whom records are maintained;
(2) Expands the type or amount of information about individuals that is maintained;
(3) Increases the number of categories of agencies or other persons who may have access to those records;
(4) Alters the manner in which the records are organized so as to change the nature or scope of those records, such as the combining of two or more existing systems;
(5) Modifies the way in which the system operates or its location(s) in a manner that alters the process by which individuals can exercise their rights under this part, such as the ways in which they seek access or request amendment of a record; or
(6) Changes the equipment configuration on which the system is operated so as to create the potential for greater access, such as adding a telecommunications capability.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration shall issue a notice of its intention to establish new Privacy Act Record Systems in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and § 21.20(b).
(d) Notices under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be published in the
Federal Register
for comment at least 30 days prior to implementation
of the proposed changes or establishment of new systems. Interested persons shall have the opportunity to submit written data, views, or arguments on such proposed new uses or systems.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Specific Categories of Records
§ 21.30
Records of contractors.
(a) Systems of records that are required to be operated, or as a matter of practical necessity must be operated, by contractors to accomplish Food and Drug Administration functions, from which information is retrieved by individual names or other personal identifiers, may be subject to the provisions of this part. If the contract is agreed to on or after September 27, 1975, the criminal penalties set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i) are applicable to such contractor, and any employee of such contractor, for disclosures prohibited in § 21.71 or for maintenance of a system of records without notice as required in § 21.20.
(b) A contract is considered to accomplish a Food and Drug Administration function if the proposal or activity it supports is principally operated on behalf of and is under the direct management of the Food and Drug Administration. Systems of records from which information is retrieved by individual names or other personal identifiers and that are operated under contracts to accomplish Food and Drug Administration functions are deemed to be maintained by the agency and shall be subject to the procedures and requirements of this part.
(c) A contract is not considered to accomplish a Food and Drug Administration function if the program or activity it supports is not principally operated on behalf of, or is not under the direct management of, the Food and Drug Administration. For example, this part does not apply to systems of records:
(1) Operated under contract with the Food and Drug Administration by State or local government agencies, or organizations representing such agencies, when such agencies or organizations are also performing State or local government functions.
(2) Operated by contractors with the Food and Drug Administration by individuals or organizations whose primary function is delivery of health services, such as hospitals, physicians, pharmacists, and other health professionals, and that report information concerning products, e.g., injuries or product defects, to the Food and Drug Administration. Before such contractors submit information to the Food and Drug Administration, the names and other personal identifiers of patients or research subjects in any medical or similar report, test, study, or other research project shall be deleted, unless the contract provides otherwise. If the Food and Drug Administration subsequently needs the names of such individuals, a separate request will be made.
(3) Relating to individuals whom the contractor employs, or with whom the contractor otherwise deals, in the course of providing goods and services to the Food and Drug Administration.
(4) Operated under grants.
(d) The requirements of this part shall apply when a contractor who operates a system of records not subject to this part reports to the Food and Drug Administration information that is a system of records about individuals from which personal information is retrieved by names or other personal identifiers. Where the information would be a new Privacy Act Record System, or a change in an existing Privacy Act Record System of a type described in § 21.21, the Food and Drug Administration shall comply with the requirements of § 21.21.
(e) The Food and Drug Administration will review all contracts before award to determine whether operation of a system from which information is retrieved by individual names or other personal identifiers will be required of the contractor, by the terms of the contract or as a matter of practical necessity. If such operation will be required, the solicitation and contract shall include the following clause, or a clause of similar effect:
Whenever the contractor or any of his employees is required by this contract to operate a system of records from which information is retrieved by individual names or other personal identifiers in order to accomplish a Food and Drug Administration function, the contractor and every employee is considered to be an employee of the Food
and Drug Administration and shall operate such system of records in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), regulations of the Food and Drug Administration in 21 CFR part 21, and rules of conduct that apply to Food and Drug Administration employees who work with such systems of records. The contractor and his employees are subject to the criminal penalties set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i) for violations of the Privacy Act.
§ 21.31
Records stored by the National Archives and Records Administration.
(a) Food and Drug Administration records that are stored, processed, and serviced by the National Archives and Records Administration in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3103 shall be considered to be maintained by the Food and Drug Administration. The National Archives and Records Administration shall not disclose the record except to authorized Food and Drug Administration employees.
(b) Each Food and Drug Administration record pertaining to an identifiable individual that was transferred to the National Archives of the United States as a record determined by the National Archives to have sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation shall be considered to be maintained by the National Archives and shall not be subject to the provisions of this part.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985]
§ 21.32
Personnel records.
(a) Present and former Food and Drug Administration employees desiring access to personnel records about themselves should consult system notices applicable to the agency's personnel records that are published by the Office of Personnel Management and the Department as well as any notice issued by the Food and Drug Administration.
(b)(1) The procedures of the Office of Personnel Management at 5 CFR parts 293, 294, and 297 rather than the procedures in § 21.33 and subparts D through F of this part, govern systems of personnel records about Food and Drug Administration employees that are subject to notice published by the Office of Personnel Management, i.e., systems that:
(i) The Office of Personnel Management maintains.
(ii) Are maintained by the Division of Human Resources Management, Food and Drug Administration.
(iii) Are maintained by Department Regional Offices, concerning field employees.
(2) The Office of Personnel Management's procedures may, if necessary, be supplemented in the Food and Drug Administration Staff Manual Guide. Current Food and Drug Administration employees should mail or deliver written requests under the Privacy Act for access to personnel records described in this paragraph to the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with 5 CFR 297.106, the Director, Division of Human Resources Management HR-BETHPL RM7114, HFA-705, 7700 Wisconsin Ave., 7th
8th floors, Bethesda, MD 20814, or the personnel officer in the servicing HHS Regional Personnel Office. An employee may consult with or direct his or her request to the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator (the Privacy Act Coordinator is part of the Freedom of Information Staff, the address for which is located on the Agency Web site at
http://www.fda.gov
). Requests for access to personnel records of former employees that are located in Federal Records Centers should be directed to the Office of Personnel Management. Requests under the Privacy Act for amendment of personnel records should be directed to these same officials who are responsible for access to personnel records under this paragraph.
(3) With respect to records subject to paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) Refusal to grant access to a record, or refusal to amend a record upon request of an employee, shall only be made by the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations or his or her designate; and
(ii) Appeals of refusals under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may be made to the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with 5 CFR 297.108(g)(3) and 297.113(b).
(c) Any other Privacy Act Record Systems that contain personnel
records, or records that otherwise concern agency employees, that are maintained by offices of the Food and Drug Administration rather than the Division of Human Resources Management but which are not subject to the Department's notice for personnel records in operating offices are subject to this part, except that refusals under this part to grant access to or amend records about present or former employees shall be made by the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations rather than the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs.
(d) The following procedures shall govern requests under the Privacy Act for personnel records that are maintained by the operating offices of the Food and Drug Administration in which employees work:
(1) An employee shall upon request be told whether records about him are maintained. An employee shall be given access to records about himself that are subject to this paragraph in response to an oral or written request and through informal procedures, rather than the procedures specified in §§ 21.40 through 21.43.
(2) Employee identity may be verified, if necessary, by an FDA ID card rather than in accordance with § 21.44.
(3) Generally no fee shall be charged for records requested under this paragraph. However, in cases where the records requested are voluminous, a fee may be charged in accordance with § 21.45.
(4) Records that are subject to this paragraph shall be available for access to an individual, except to the extent that access is refused by the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations or his or her designate on the grounds that the record is subject to an exemption under § 21.61 or 5 CFR 297.111.
(5) Requests under the Privacy Act for amendment of records subject to this paragraph should be directed to the Director, Division of Human Resources Management (HFA-400). Such requests shall be reviewed in accordance with subpart E of this part. Refusal to amend a record subject to this paragraph (d)(5) shall only be made by the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations or his or her designate.
(6) Appeals of refusals under paragraph (d) (4) or (5) of this section may be made to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, except where the Associate Commissioner for Management and Operations or his or her designate indicates with his or her refusal that the appeal should be made to the Office of Personnel Management.
(7) Disclosures of records subject to this paragraph are subject to subpart G of this part.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8457, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 21.33
Medical records.
(a) In general, an individual is entitled to have access to any medical records about himself in Privacy Act Record Systems maintained by the Food and Drug Administration.
(b) The Food and Drug Administration may apply the following special procedures in disclosing medical records to an individual:
(1) The agency may review the records to determine whether disclosure of the record to the individual who is the subject of the records might have an adverse effect on him. If it is determined that disclosure is not likely to have an adverse effect on the individual, the record shall be disclosed to him. If it is determined that disclosure is very likely to have an adverse effect on the individual, he may be requested to designate, in writing, a representative to whom the record shall be disclosed. Such representative may be a physician, other health professional, or other responsible person who would be willing to review the record and discuss it with the individual.
(2) The availability of the record may be subject to any procedures for disclosure to an individual of medical records about himself under part 20 of this chapter, in addition to or in lieu of the procedures in paragraph (b)(1), that are not inconsistent with § 21.41(f).

# Subpart D—Procedures for Notification of and Access to Records in Privacy Act Record Systems
§ 21.40
Procedures for submitting requests for notification and access.
(a) An individual may request that the Food and Drug Administration notify him whether a Privacy Act Record System contains records about him that are retrieved by reference to his name or other personal identifier. An individual may at the same time, or after receiving notification that such a record about him exists, requests that he be given access to the record.
(b) An individual desiring notification or access to records shall mail or deliver a request for records in any Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Records System to the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator (address is located on the agency web site at
http://www.gov.fda
).
(c) Requests shall be in writing and shall name the Privacy Act Record System or Systems concerning which the individual requests notification of whether there are records about him that are retrieved by reference to his name or other personal identifier. To help assure a prompt response, an individual should indicate that he is making a “Privacy Act Request” on the envelope and in a prominent manner in the letter.
(d) An individual who merely wishes to be notified whether a Privacy Act Record System contains a record about him ordinarily need not provide any verification of his identity other than his name. The mere fact that the Food and Drug Administration has a record about an individual in any of its Privacy Act Records Systems would not be likely to constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Where mere disclosure of the fact that a record about the individual exists would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, further verification of the identity of the individual shall be required.
(e) An individual who requests that he be given access to a copy of records about himself, if any exist, should indicate whether he prefers (1) to have copies of any such records mailed to him in accordance with § 21.43(a)(1), which may involve a fee under § 21.45, including information to verify his identity under § 21.44 or (2) to use the procedures for access in person under § 21.43(a)(2).
(f) A request for notification and access may be submitted under this subpart concerning any Privacy Act Record System that is exempt under § 21.61, as indicated in the notice for the system. An individual seeking access to records under § 21.65(b)(2) to investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes other than criminal law enforcement purposes should submit a description of the right, benefit, or privilege that he believes he was denied as the result of the Food and Drug Administration's maintenance of the records. Where the system is exempt under § 21.61, and access to the requested records is not granted under § 21.65, the request shall be handled under the provisions of part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations).
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8458, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 21.41
Processing of requests.
(a) An individual or his guardian under § 21.75 shall not be required to show any justification or need to obtain notification under § 21.42 or access to a record under § 21.43.
(b) The Food and Drug Administration will determine whether a request by an individual for records about himself is appropriately treated as a request under this subpart, or under the provision of part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations), or both. Where appropriate, the Food and Drug Administration will consult with the individual concerning the appropriate treatment of the request.
(c) The FDA Privacy Act Coordinator in the Division of Freedom of Information (address is located on the agency web site at
http://www.gov.fda
) shall be responsible for the handling of Privacy Act requests received by the Food and Drug Administration. Requests mailed or delivered to any other office shall be
promptly redirected to the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator. Where this procedure would unduly delay the agency's response, however, the agency employee who received the request should consult with the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator and obtain advice as to whether the employee can respond to the request directly.
(d) Upon receipt of a request by the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator, a record shall promptly be made that a request has been received and the date.
(e) A letter in accordance with § 21.42 responding to the request for notification shall issue as promptly as possible after receipt of the request by the Food and Drug Administration. Upon determination by the Division of Freedom of Information (address is located on the agency web site at
http://www.gov.fda
) that a request for access to records is appropriately treated as a request under part 20 of this chapter rather than part 21, or under both parts, the time limitations prescribed in § 21.41 shall apply. In any case, access to available records shall be provided as promptly as possible.
(f) Except as provided in § 21.32, an individual's access to records about him/herself that are retrieved by his/her name or other personal identifiers and contained in any Privacy Act Record System may only be denied by the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs or his or her designate. An individual shall not be denied access to any record that is otherwise available to him/her under this part except on the grounds that it is exempt under § 21.65(a)(2), that it was compiled in reasonable anticipation of court litigation of formal administrative proceedings, or to the extent that it is exempt or prohibited from disclosure because it includes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential information the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy of another individual.
(g) The FDA Privacy Act Coordinator shall ensure that records are maintained of the number, status, and disposition of requests under this subpart, including the number of requests for records exempt from access under this subpart and other information required for purposes of the annual report to Congress under the Privacy Act. These temporary administrative management records shall not be considered to be Privacy Act Record Systems. All records required to be kept under this paragraph shall only include requesting individuals' names or personal identifiers for so long as any request for notification, access, or amendment is pending. The identity of individuals making request under this subpart shall be regarded as confidential and shall not be disclosed under part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) to any other person or agency except as is necessary for the processing of requests under this subpart.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8458, Jan. 27, 1981; 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 21.42
Responses to requests.
(a) The FDA shall respond to an individual's request for notification as to whether a Privacy Act Record System contains records about him that are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier by sending a letter under this paragraph.
(1) If there are no records about the individual that are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier in the named Privacy Act Record System, or the requester is not an “individual” under § 21.3(a), the letter shall so state. Where appropriate, the letter shall indicate that the Food and Drug Administration's public information regulations in part 20 of this chapter prescribe general rules governing the availability of information to members of the public, and that a request may be made in accordance with part 20 of this chapter for records that are not retrieved by the requester's name or other personal identifier from a Privacy Act Record System.
(2) If there are records about the individual that are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier and the named Privacy Act Record System is not exempt from individual access and contest under § 21.61, or the system is exempt but access is allowed or required under § 21.65, the letter shall inform him that the records exist and shall either:
(i) Enclose a copy of the records under § 21.43(a)(1) or indicate that the records will be sent under separate cover, where there has been adequate verification of the identity of the individual under § 21.44 and the fees under § 21.45 do not exceed $25, or
(ii) Inform the individual of the procedures to obtain access to the records by mail or in person under § 21.43(a)(2), as well as the approximate dates by which the requested records can be provided (if the records are not then available), the locations at which access in person may be had, and the information needed, if any, to verify the identity of the individual under § 21.44.
(3) If the named Privacy Act Record System contains records about the individual that are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier, and the system is exempt from individual access and contest under § 21.61 and access is not allowed or required under § 21.65, the letter should inform him that the records are exempted from access and contest by § 21.61. The letter shall also inform him if the records sought are not available because they were compiled in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings or are otherwise not available under § 21.41(b). Where appropriate, the letter shall also indicate whether the records are available under part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations), and it may disclose the records in accordance with part 20.
(4) If the named Privacy Act Record System contains records about the individual that are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier, but a final determination has not yet been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records covered by the request, e.g., because it is necessary to consult another person or agency having an interest in the confidentiality of the records, the letter shall explain the circumstances and indicate when a final answer will be given.
(b) Except as provided in § 21.32, access to a record may only be denied by the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs or his or her designate. If access to any record is denied wholly or in substantial part, the letter shall state the right of the individual to appeal to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(c) If a request for a copy of the records will result in a fee of more than $25, the letter shall specify or estimate the fee involved. Where the individual has requested a copy of any records about him and copying the records would result in a fee of over $50, the Food and Drug Administration shall require advance deposit as well as payment of any amount not yet received as a result of any previous request by the individual for a record about himself, under this subpart or part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) before the records are made available. If the fee is less than $50, prepayment shall not be required unless payment has not yet been received for records disclosed as a result of a previous request by the individual for a record about himself under this subpart or part 20 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8458, Jan. 27, 1981]
§ 21.43
Access to requested records.
(a) Access may be granted to requested records by:
(1) Mailing a copy of the records to the requesting individual, or
(2) Permitting the requesting individual to review the records in person between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. at the office of the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator, at the Division of Freedom of Information Public Reading Room (address is located on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov
), or at any Food and Drug Administration field office, listed in part 5, subpart M of this chapter, or at another location or time upon which the Food and Drug Administration and the individual agree. Arrangement for such review can be made by consultation between the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator and the individual. An individual seeking to review records in person shall generally be permitted access to the file copy, except that where the records include nondisclosable information, a copy shall be made of that portion of the records, with the nondisclosable information blocked out. Where the individual is not given a copy of the record to retain, no charge shall be made for the cost of copying a record to make it available
to an individual who reviews a record in person under this paragraph.
(b) An individual may request that a record be disclosed to or discussed in the presence of another individual, such as an attorney. The individual may be required to furnish a written statement authorizing the disclosure or discussion in such other individual's presence.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration will make every reasonable effort to assure that records made available under this section can be understood by the individual, such as by providing an oral or written explanation of the records.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8458, Jan. 27, 1981; 69 FR 17290, Apr. 2, 2004; 76 FR 31470, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 21.44
Verification of identity.
(a) An individual seeking access to records in a Privacy Act Record System may be required to comply with reasonable requirements to enable the Food and Drug Administration to determine his identity. The identification required shall be suitable considering the nature of the records sought. No identification shall be required to receive access to information that is required to be disclosed to any member of the public under part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations).
(b) An individual who appears in person for access to records about himself shall be required to provide at least one document to identify himself, e.g., driver's license, passport, or alien or voter registration card to verify his identity. If an individual does not have any such document or requests access to records about himself without appearing in person under circumstances in which his identity cannot be verified from the request itself, he shall be required to certify in writing that he is the individual he claims to be and that he understands that the knowing and willful request for or acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense subject to a $5,000 fine.
(c) In making requests under § 21.75, a parent of a minor child or legal guardian of an incompetent individual may be required to verify his relationship to the minor child or the incompetent individual, in addition to verifying his own identity, by providing a copy of the minor's birth certificate, a court order, or other evidence of guardianship.
(d) Where an individual seeks access to particularly sensitive records, such as medical records, the individual may be required to provide additional information beyond that specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, such as the individual's years of attendance at a particular educational institution, rank attained in the uniformed services, date or place of birth, names of parents, an occupation, or the specific times the individual received medical treatment.
§ 21.45
Fees.
(a) Where applicable, fees for copying records shall be charged in accordance with the schedule set forth in this section. Fees may only be charged where an individual has requested that a copy be made of a record to which he is granted access. No fee may be charged for making a search of a Privacy Act Record System whether the search is manual, mechanical, or electronic. Where a copy of the record must be made to provide access to the record, e.g., computer printout where no screen reading is available, the copy shall be made available to the individual without cost. Where a medical record is made available to a representative designated by the individual under § 21.33, no fee will be charged.
(b) The fee schedule is as follows:
(1) Copying of records susceptible to photocopying—$.10 per page.
(2) Copying of records not susceptible to photocopying, e.g., punch cards or magnetic tapes—at actual cost to the determined on a case-by-case basis.
(3) No charge will be made if the total amount of copying for an individual does not exceed $25.
(c) When a fee is to be assessed, the individual shall be notified prior to the processing of the copies, and be given an opportunity to amend his request. Payment shall be made by check or money order made payable to the “Food and Drug Administration,” and shall be sent to the Accounting Branch
(HFA-120), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Advance deposit shall be required where the total amount exceeds $50.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Subpart E—Procedures for Requests for Amendment of Records
§ 21.50
Procedures for submitting requests for amendment of records.
(a) An individual who received access to a record about himself under subpart D of this part may request that the record be amended if he believes that the record or an item of information is not accurate, relevant to a Food and Drug Administration purpose, timely, or complete.
(b) Amendments under this subpart shall not violate existing statute, regulation, or administrative procedure.
(1) This subpart does not permit alteration of evidence presented in the course of judicial proceedings or Food and Drug Administration adjudicatory or rule making proceedings or collateral attack upon that which has already been the subject of any such proceedings.
(2) If the accuracy, relevancy, timeliness, or completeness of the records may be contested in any other pending or imminent agency proceeding, the Food and Drug Administration may refer the individual to the other proceeding as the appropriate means to obtain relief. If the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of a record is, or has been, an issue in another agency proceeding, the request under this section shall be disposed of in accordance with the decision in the other proceeding, absent unusual circumstances.
(c) Requests to amend records shall be submitted, in writing, to the FDA Privacy Act Coordinator in accordance with § 21.40(b). Such requests shall include information sufficient to enable the Food and Drug Administration to locate the record, a brief description of the items of information requested to be amended, and the reasons why the record should be amended together with any appropriate documentation or arguments in support of the requested amendment. An edited copy of the record showing the described amendment may be included. Verification of identity should be provided in accordance with § 21.44.
(d) Written acknowledgement of the receipt of a request to amend a record shall be provided within 10 working days to the individual who requested the amendment. Such acknowledgement may request any additional information needed to verify identity or make a determination. No acknowledgement need be made if the request can be reviewed, processed, and the individual notified of the agency's agreement with the request or refusal within the 10-day period.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8459, Jan. 27, 1981]
§ 21.51
Responses to requests for amendment of records.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration shall take one of the following actions on a request for amendment of records as promptly as possible:
(1) Amend any portion of the record which the agency has determined, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, is not accurate, relevant to a Food and Drug Administration purpose, timely, or complete, and, in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, inform the individual and previous recipients of the record that has been amended of the amendment.
(2) Inform the individual of its refusal to amend any portion of the record in the manner requested, the reason for the refusal, and the opportunity for administrative appeal to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Except as provided in § 21.32, such refusal may only be issued by the Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs or his or her designate.
(3) Where another agency was the source of and has control of the record, refer the request to that agency.
(b) The agency may, for good cause, extend the period for taking action an additional 30 working days if notice is provided to the individual explaining the circumstances of the delay.
(c) The officials charged with reviewing a record to determine how to respond to a request to amend it, shall
assess its accuracy, relevance to a Food and Drug Administration purpose, timeliness, or completeness. The determination shall be made in the light of the purpose for which the records or system is used, the agency's need for the record, and the possible adverse consequences to the individual from the record if not amended. Whenever the Food and Drug Administration receives a request for deletion of a record, or portions of a record, it shall consider anew whether the contested information in the record is relevant and necessary to a Food and Drug Administration purpose.
(d) If the Food and Drug Administration agrees with an individual's request, it shall take the following actions:
(1) So inform the individual in writing.
(2) In accordance with statute, regulation, or procedure, amend the record to make it accurate, relevant to a Food and Drug Administration purpose, timely, or complete, making note of the date and fact of the amendment.
(3) If an accounting was made under § 21.71(d) of a disclosure of the record under § 21.71(a), provide a copy of the record as amended, to all previous recipients of the record.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8459, Jan. 27, 1981]
§ 21.52
Administrative appeals of refusals to amend records.
(a) If an individual disagrees with a refusal under § 21.51(a)(2) to amend a record, he or she may appeal that refusal to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs,(see the address on the agency's web site at
http://www.fda.gov
).
(b) If, upon appeal, the Commissioner upholds the refusal to amend the record as requested, he shall inform the individual:
(1) Of his decision and the reasons for it.
(2) Of the individual's right to file with the Food and Drug Administration a concise statement of the individual's reasons for disagreeing with the agency's decision not to amend the record as requested.
(3) That the statement of disagreement will be made available to all persons listed in an accounting as having previously received the record and any person to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with, in the discretion of the Food and Drug Administration, a brief statement summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record. Any individual who includes false information in the statement of disagreement filed with the Food and Drug Administration may be subject to penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1001, the False Reports to the Government Act.
(4) That the individual has a right to seek judicial review of the refusal to amend the record.
(c) If the Commissioner on administrative appeal or a court on judicial review determines that the record should be amended in accordance with the individual's request, the Food and Drug Administration shall proceed in accordance with § 21.51(d).
(d) A final determination on the individual's administrative appeal of the initial refusal to amend the record shall be concluded within 30 working days of the request for such review under paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Commissioner extends such period for good cause and informs the individual in writing of the reasons for the delay and of the approximate date on which a decision of the appeal can be expected.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 79 FR 68115, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 21.53
Notation and disclosure of disputed records.
When an individual has filed a statement of disagreement under § 21.52(b)(2), the Food and Drug Administration shall:
(a) Mark any portion of the record that is disputed to assure that the record will clearly show that portion is disputed whenever the record is disclosed.
(b) In any subsequent disclosure under § 21.70 or § 21.71(a), provide a copy of the statement of disagreement and, if the Food and Drug Administration deems it appropriate, a concise statement of the agency's reasons for not making the amendment(s) requested. While the individual shall have access to any such statement, it shall not be
subject to a request for amendment under § 21.50.
(c) If an accounting was made under § 21.71(d) and (e) of a disclosure of the record under § 21.71(a), provide to all previous recipients of the record a copy of the statement of disagreement and the agency statement, if any.
§ 21.54
Amended or disputed records received from other agencies.
Whenever the Food and Drug Administration is notified that a record that it received from another agency was amended or is the subject of a statement of disagreement, the Food and Drug Administration shall:
(a) Discard the record, or clearly note the amendment or the fact of disagreement in its copy of the record, and
(b) Refer persons who subsequently request the record to the agency that provided it.
(c) If an accounting was made under § 21.71 (d) and (e) of the disclosure of the record under § 21.71(a), inform all previous recipients of the record about the amendment or provide to them the statement of disagreement and the agency statement, if any.

# Subpart F—Exemptions
§ 21.60
Policy.
It is the policy of the Food and Drug Administration that record systems should be exempted from the Privacy Act only to the extent essential to the performance of law enforcement functions under the laws that are administered and enforced by the Food and Drug Administration or that govern the agency.
§ 21.61
Exempt systems.
(a) Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, including criminal law enforcement purposes, in the Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems listed in paragraph (b) of this section are exempt from the following provisions of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) and of this part:
(1) Such records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and § 21.71(e)(4), requiring that an individual be provided with the accounting of disclosures of records about himself from a Privacy Act Record System.
(2) Except where access is required under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and § 21.65(a)(2), (such records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (4) and (f)) and §§ 21.40 through 21.54, requiring procedures for an individual to be given notification of and access to records about himself in a Privacy Act Record System and to be allowed to challenge the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness of such records.
(3) Such records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) and § 21.20(b)(1) requiring inclusion in the notice for the system of information about agency procedures for notification, access, and contest.
(4) Such records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) requiring that individuals asked to supply information be provided a form outlining the authority for the request, the purposes for which the information will be used, the routine uses in the notice for the Privacy Act Record System, and the consequences to the individual of not providing the information, but only with respect to records compiled by the Food and Drug Administration in a criminal law enforcement investigation where the conduct of the investigation would be prejudiced by such procedures.
(b) Records in the following Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Record Systems that concern individuals who are subject to Food and Drug Administration enforcement action and consist of investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, including criminal law enforcement purposes, are exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2) from the provisions enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Bio-research Monitoring Information System—HHS/FDA/09-10-0010.
(2) Regulated Industry Employee Enforcement Records—HHS/FDA/ACMO/09-10-002.
(3) Employee Conduct Investigative Records—HHS/FDA/ACMO/09-10-0013.
(c) The system described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section includes investigatory records compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualification for Federal
civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, and access to classified information. These records are exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) to the extent that the disclosure would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under a promise of confidentiality, which must be an express promise if the information was furnished after September 27, 1975. Any individual who is refused access to a record that would reveal a confidential source shall be advised in a general way that the record includes information that would reveal a confidential source.
(d) Records in the following Food and Drug Administration Privacy Act Records Systems are exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) from the provisions enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) through paragraph (a)(3) of this section: FDA Records Related to Research Misconduct Proceedings, HHS/FDA/OC, 09-10-0020.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8459, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 78 FR 39186, July 1, 2013]
§ 21.65
Access to records in exempt systems.
(a) Where a Privacy Act Record System is exempt and the requested records are unavailable under § 21.61, an individual may nevertheless make a request under § 21.40 for notification concerning whether any records about him exist and request access to such records where they are retrieved by his name or other personal identifier.
(b) An individual making a request under paragraph (a) of this section;
(1) May be given access to the records where available under part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) or the Commissioner may, in his discretion, entertain a request under any or all of the provisions of §§ 21.40 through 21.54; and
(2) Shall be given access upon request if the records requested are subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and not to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) (i.e., because they consist of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than criminal law enforcement purposes) and maintenance of the records resulted in denial to the individual of any right, benefit, or privilege to which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which he would otherwise be eligible. An individual given access to a record under this paragraph (b)(2) is not entitled to seek amendment under subpart E of this part. The FDA may refuse to disclose a record that would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under a promise of confidentiality, which must be an express promise if the information was furnished on or after September 27, 1975. Any individual refused access to a record that would reveal a confidential source shall be advised in a general way that the record contains information that would reveal a confidential source.
(c) The Commissioner shall not make available any record that is prohibited from public disclosure under § 20.82(b) of this chapter.
(d) Discretionary disclosure of a record pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not set a precedent for discretionary disclosure of a similar or related record and shall not obligate the Commissioner to exercise his discretion to disclose any other record in a system that is exempt under § 21.61.

# Subpart G—Disclosure of Records in Privacy Act Record Systems to Persons Other Than the Subject Individual
§ 21.70
Disclosure and intra-agency use of records in Privacy Act Record Systems; no accounting required.
(a) A record about an individual which is contained in a Privacy Act Record System may be disclosed:
(1) To the individual who is the subject of the record, or his legal guardian under § 21.75;
(2) To a third party pursuant to a written request by, or within a written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, or his legal guardian under § 21.75;
(3) To any person:
(i) Where the names and other identifying information are first deleted, and
under circumstances in which the recipient is unlikely to know the identity of the subject of the record;
(ii) Where disclosure is required by part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations); or
(4) Within the Department of Health and Human Services to officers and employees who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties in connection with the laws administered and enforced by the Food and Drug Administration or that govern the agency. For purposes of this section, officers or employees of the Department shall include the following categories of individuals, who shall thereafter be subject to the same restrictions with respect to disclosure as any Food and Drug Administration employee: Food and Drug Administration consultants and advisory committees, State and local government employees for use only in their work with the Food and Drug Administration, and contractors and their employees to the extent that the records of such contractors are subject to the requirements of this part under § 21.30.
(b) No accounting is required for any disclosure or use under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 21.71
Disclosure of records in Privacy Act Record Systems; accounting required.
(a) Except as provided in § 21.70, a record about an individual that is contained in a Privacy Act Record System shall not be disclosed by any method of communication except under any of the following circumstances, which are subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and to the accounting requirement of paragraph (d) of this section:
(1) To those officers and employees of the agency which maintains the record who have a need for the record in the perfomance of their duties;
(2) Required under section 552 of the Freedom of Information Act;
(3) For a routine use as described in the routine use section of each specific system notice;
(4) To the Bureau of Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13 of the U.S. Code;
(5) To a recipient who has provided the agency with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and that the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(6) To the National Archives and Records Administration of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or to the Archivist of the United States or his or her designee for evaluation to determine whether the record has such value;
(7) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any government jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the agency which maintains the record specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(8) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if, upon such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(9) To either House of Congress or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(10) To the Comptroller General, or any of his or her authorized representatives in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office;
(11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; or
(12) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with section 3(d) of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 952(d)). (This “Special Disclosure” statement does not apply to any FDA system of records.)
(b) The Food and Drug Administration may in its discretion refuse to make a disclosure permitted under
paragraph (a) of this section, if the disclosure would in the judgment of the agency, invade the privacy of the individual or be inconsistent with the purpose for which the information was collected.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration may require any person requesting a disclosure of a record under paragraph (a) of this section to provide:
(1) Information about the purposes to which the disclosed record is to be put, and
(2) A written statement certifying that the record will be used only for the stated purposes and will not be further disclosed without the written permission of the Food and Drug Administration.
Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3), any person who knowingly or willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from an agency under false pretenses shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000. Such person may also be subject to prosecution under the False Reports to the Government Act, 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(d) An accounting shall be made, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, of any disclosure under paragraph (a) of this section of a record that is not a disclosure under § 21.70.
(e) Where an accounting is required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Food and Drug Administration shall:
(1) Record the name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made and the date, nature, and purpose of the disclosure. The accounting shall not be considered a Privacy Act Record System.
(2) Retain the accounting for 5 years or for the life of the record, whichever is longer, following the disclosure.
(3) Notify those recipients listed in the accounting of amendments or disputes concerning the records previously disclosed to them pursuant to § 21.51(d)(3), § 21.53(c), or § 21.54(c).
(4) Except when the record is exempt from individual access and contest under § 21.61 or to the extent that the accounting describes a transfer for a law enforcement purpose pursuant to paragraph (a)(7) of this section, make the accounting available to the individual to whom the record pertains, in accordance with procedures of subpart D of this part.
(f) A single accounting may be used to cover disclosure(s) that consist of a continuing dialogue between two agencies over a prolonged period, such as discussion of an enforcement action between the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Justice. In such cases, a general notation may be made that, as of a certain date, contract was initiated, to continue until resolution of the matter.
[42 FR 15626, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 52278, Dec. 23, 1985; 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989]
§ 21.72
Individual consent to disclosure of records to other persons.
(a) Individuals may consent to disclosure of records about themselves to other persons in several ways, for example:
(1) An individual may give consent at the time that the information is collected for disclosure for specific purposes or to specific persons.
(2) An individual may give consent for disclosure of his records to a specific person.
(3) An individual may request the Food and Drug Administration to transcribe a specific record for submission to another person.
(b) In each case the consent shall be in writing and shall specify the individual, organizational unit, or class of individuals or organizational units to whom the record may be disclosed, which record may be disclosed, and, if applicable, for what time period. A blanket consent to release all of an individual's records to unspecified individuals or organizational units will not be honored. Verification of the identity of the individual and, where applicable, of the person to whom the record is to be disclosed shall be made in accordance with § 21.44. Consent documents shall be retained for a period of at least 2 years. If such documents are used as a means of accounting for the disclosure, they shall be retained as provided in § 21.71(e)(2).
§ 21.73
Accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and relevance of records disclosed from Privacy Act Record Systems.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration shall make reasonable efforts to assure that a record about an individual in a Privacy Act Record System is accurate, relevant to a Food and Drug Administration purpose, timely, and complete before such record is disclosed under § 21.71.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to disclosures that are required under part 20 of this chapter (the public information regulations) or made to other Federal Government departments and agencies. Where appropriate, the letter disclosing the information shall indicate that the Food and Drug Administration has not reviewed the record to assure that it is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete.
§ 21.74
Providing notice that a record is disputed.
Whenever an individual has filed a statement of disagreement with the Food and Drug Administration concerning a refusal to amend a record under § 21.51(a)(2) or with another agency that provides the record to the Food and Drug Administration, the Food and Drug Administration shall in any subsequent disclosure under this subpart provide a copy of the statement of disagreement and a concise statement by the agency, if one has been prepared, of the reasons for not making the amendment(s) requested.
§ 21.75
Rights of legal guardians.
For the purposes of this part, the parent of any individual who is a minor or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared to be incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction may act on behalf of the individual.
Pt. 25

# PART 25—ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONSIDERATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
25.1
Purpose.
25.5
Terminology.
25.10
Policies and NEPA planning.

# Subpart B—Agency Actions Requiring Environmental Consideration
25.15
General procedures.
25.16
Public health and safety emergencies.
25.20
Actions requiring preparation of an environmental assessment.
25.21
Extraordinary circumstances.
25.22
Actions requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement.

# Subpart C—Categorical Exclusions
25.30
General.
25.31
Human drugs and biologics.
25.32
Foods, food additives, and color additives.
25.33
Animal drugs.
25.34
Devices and electronic products.
25.35
Tobacco product applications.

# Subpart D—Preparation of Environmental Documents
25.40
Environmental assessments.
25.41
Findings of no significant impact.
25.42
Environmental impact statements.
25.43
Records of decision.
25.44
Lead and cooperating agencies.
25.45
Responsible agency official.

# Subpart E—Public Participation and Notification of Environmental Documents
25.50
General information.
25.51
Environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact.
25.52
Environmental impact statements.

# Subpart F—Other Requirements
25.60
Environmental effects abroad of major agency actions.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321-393; 42 U.S.C. 262, 263b-264; 42 U.S.C. 4321, 4332; 40 CFR parts 1500-1508; E.O. 11514, 35 FR 4247, 3 CFR, 1971 Comp., p. 531-533 as amended by E.O. 11991, 42 FR 26967, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 123-124 and E.O. 12114, 44 FR 1957, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 356-360.

# Source:
62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 25 appear at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 25.1
Purpose.
The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), as amended, directs that, to the fullest extent possible, the policies, regulations, and public laws of
the United States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the policies set forth in NEPA. All agencies of the Federal Government shall comply with the procedures in section 102(2) of NEPA except where compliance would be inconsistent with other statutory requirements. The regulations in this part implement section 102(2) of NEPA in a manner that is consistent with FDA's authority under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act. This part also supplements the regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of NEPA that were published by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508 and the procedures included in the “HHS General Administration Manual, part 30: Environmental Protection” (45 FR 76519 to 76534, November 19, 1980).
§ 25.5
Terminology.
(a) Definitions that apply to the terms used in this part are set forth in the CEQ regulations under 40 CFR part 1508. The terms and the sections of 40 CFR part 1508 in which they are defined follow:
(1) Categorical exclusion (40 CFR 1508.4).
(2) Cooperating agency (40 CFR 1508.5).
(3) Cumulative impact (40 CFR 1508.7).
(4) Effects (40 CFR 1508.8).
(5) Environmental assessment (EA) (40 CFR 1508.9).
(6) Environmental document (40 CFR 1508.10).
(7) Environmental impact statement (EIS) (40 CFR 1508.11).
(8) Federal agency (40 CFR 1508.12).
(9) Finding of no significant impact (40 CFR 1508.13).
(10) Human environment (40 CFR 1508.14).
(11) Lead agency (40 CFR 1508.16).
(12) Legislation (40 CFR 1508.17).
(13) Major Federal action (40 CFR 1508.18).
(14) Mitigation (40 CFR 1508.20).
(15) NEPA process (40 CFR 1508.21).
(16) Notice of intent (40 CFR 1508.22).
(17) Proposal (40 CFR 1508.23).
(18) Scope (40 CFR 1508.25).
(19) Significantly (40 CFR 1508.27).
(b) The following terms are defined solely for the purpose of implementing the supplemental procedures provided by this part and are not necessarily applicable to any other statutory or regulatory requirements:
(1)
Abbreviated application
applies to an abbreviated new drug application and an abbreviated new animal drug application.
(2)
Active moiety
means the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent derivative (such as a complex chelate or clathrate) of the molecule responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance.
(3)
Agency
means the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
(4)
Increased use
of a drug or biologic product may occur if the drug will be administered at higher dosage levels, for longer duration or for different indications than were previously in effect, or if the drug is a new molecular entity. The term “use” also encompasses disposal of FDA-regulated articles by consumers.
(5)
Responsible agency official
means the agency decisionmaker designated in the delegated authority for the underlying actions.
(c) The following acronyms are used in this part:
(1) CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality.
(2) CGMP—Current good manufacturing practice.
(3) EA—Environmental assessment.
(4) EIS—Environmental impact statement.
(5) The act—Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(6) FIFRA—Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
(7) FONSI—Finding of no significant impact.
(8) GLP—Good laboratory practice.
(9) GRAS—Generally recognized as safe.
(10) HACCP—Hazard analysis critical control point.
(11) IDE—Investigational device exemption.
(12) IND—Investigational new drug application.
(13) INAD—Investigational new animal drug application.
(14) NADA—New animal drug application.
(15) NDA—New drug application.
(16) NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
(17) OTC—Over-the-counter.
(18) PDP—Product development protocol.
(19) PMA—Premarket approval application.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 69 FR 17291, Apr. 2, 2004]
§ 25.10
Policies and NEPA planning.
(a) All FDA's policies and programs will be planned, developed, and implemented to achieve the policies declared by NEPA and required by CEQ's regulations to ensure responsible stewardship of the environment for present and future generations.
(b) Assessment of environmental factors continues throughout planning and is integrated with other program planning at the earliest possible time to ensure that planning and decisions reflect environmental values, to avoid delays later in the process, and to avoid potential conflicts.
(c) For actions initiated by the agency, the NEPA process will begin when the agency action under consideration is first identified. For actions initiated by applicants or petitioners, NEPA planning begins when FDA receives from an applicant or petitioner an EA or a claim that a categorical exclusion applies, or when FDA personnel consult with applicants or petitioners on the NEPA-related aspects of their requested actions. FDA may issue a public call for environmental data or otherwise consult with affected individuals or groups when a contemplated action in which it is or may be involved poses potential significant environmental effects.
(d) Environmental documents shall concentrate on timely and significant issues, not amass needless detail.
(e) If a proposed action for which an EIS will be prepared involves possible environmental effects that are required to be considered under statutes or Executive Orders other than those referred to under “Authority” in this part, these effects shall be considered in the NEPA review, consistent with 40 CFR 1502.25 and the HHS General Administration Manual, part 30: Environmental Protection.

# Subpart B—Agency Actions Requiring Environmental Consideration
§ 25.15
General procedures.
(a) All applications or petitions requesting agency action require the submission of an EA or a claim of categorical exclusion. A claim of categorical exclusion shall include a statement of compliance with the categorical exclusion criteria and shall state that to the applicant's knowledge, no extraordinary circumstances exist. Failure to submit an adequate EA for an application or petition requesting action by the agency of a type specified in § 25.20, unless the agency can determine that the action qualifies for exclusion under §§ 25.30, 25.31, 25.32, 25.33, 25.34, or 25.35 is sufficient grounds for FDA to refuse to file or approve the application or petition. An EA adequate for filing is one that addresses the relevant environmental issues. An EA adequate for approval is one that contains sufficient information to enable the agency to determine whether the proposed action may significantly affect the quality of the human environment.
(b) The responsible agency officials will evaluate the information contained in the EA to determine whether it is accurate and objective, whether the proposed action may significantly affect the quality of the human environment, and whether an EIS will be prepared. If significant effects requiring the preparation of an EIS are identified, FDA will prepare an EIS for the action in accordance with the procedures in subparts D and E of this part. If significant effects requiring the preparation of an EIS are not identified, resulting in a decision not to prepare an EIS, the responsible agency official will prepare a FONSI in accordance with § 25.41.
(c) Classes of actions that individually or cumulatively do not significantly affect the quality of the human environment ordinarily are excluded from the requirement to prepare an EA or an EIS. The classes of actions that
qualify as categorical exclusions are set forth in §§ 25.30, 25.31, 25.32, 25.33, 25.34, or 25.35.
(d) A person submitting an application or petition of a type subject to categorical exclusion under §§ 25.30, 25.31, 25.32, 25.33, 25.34, or 25.35, or proposing to dispose of an article as provided in § 25.30(d) or 25.32(h), is not required to submit an EA if the person states that the action requested qualifies for a categorical exclusion, citing the particular categorical exclusion that is claimed, and states that to the applicant's knowledge, no extraordinary circumstances exist.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 25.16
Public health and safety emergencies.
There are certain regulatory actions that, because of their immediate importance to the public health or safety, may make full adherence to the procedural provisions of NEPA and CEQ's regulations impossible. For such actions, the responsible agency official shall consult with CEQ about alternative arrangements before the action is taken, or after the action is taken, if time does not permit prior consultation with CEQ.
§ 25.20
Actions requiring preparation of an environmental assessment.
Any proposed action of a type specified in this section normally requires at least the preparation of an EA, unless it is an action in a specific class that qualifies for exclusion under §§ 25.30, 25.31, 25.32, 25.33, 25.34, or 25.35:
(a) Major recommendations or reports made to Congress on proposals for legislation in instances where the agency has primary responsibility for the subject matter involved.
(b) Destruction or other disposition of articles condemned after seizure or whose distribution or use has been enjoined, unless categorically excluded in §§ 25.30(d) or 25.32(h).
(c) Destruction or other disposition of articles following detention or recall at agency request, unless categorically excluded in §§ 25.30(d) or 25.32(h).
(d) Disposition of FDA laboratory waste materials, unless categorically excluded in § 25.30(m).
(e) Intramural and extramural research supported in whole or in part through contracts, other agreements, or grants, unless categorically excluded in § 25.30 (e) or (f).
(f) Establishment by regulation of labeling requirements, a standard, or a monograph, unless categorically excluded in §§ 25.30(k) or 25.31 (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), or (j), or 25.32 (a) or (p).
(g) Issuance, amendment, and enforcement of FDA regulations, or an exemption or variance from FDA regulations, unless categorically excluded in § 25.30 (h), (i), or (j), or § 25.32 (e), (g), (n), or (p).
(h) Withdrawal of existing approvals of FDA-approved articles, unless categorically excluded in §§ 25.31 (d) or (k), 25.32(m), or 25.33 (g) or (h).
(i) Approval of food additive petitions and color additive petitions, approval of requests for exemptions for investigational use of food additives, the granting of requests for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, and allowing notifications submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, unless categorically excluded in § 25.32(b), (c), (i), (j), (k), (l), (o), (q), or (r).
(j) Establishment of a tolerance for unavoidable poisonous or deleterious substances in food or in packaging materials to be used for food.
(k) Establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, or establishment or amendment of a regulation for a prior-sanctioned food ingredient, as defined in §§ 170.3(l) and 181.5(a) of this chapter, unless categorically excluded in § 25.32(f), (i), (j), (k), or (r).
(l) Approval of NDA's, abbreviated applications, applications for marketing approval of a biologic product, supplements to such applications, and actions on IND's, unless categorically excluded in § 25.31 (a), (b), (c), (e), or (l).
(m) Approval of NADA's, abbreviated applications, supplements, actions on INAD's, and granting of requests for determination of eligibility for indexing, unless categorically excluded under § 25.33 (a), (c), (d), or (e).
(n) Approval of PMA's for medical devices, notices of completion of PDP's for medical devices, authorizations to commence clinical investigation under an approved PDP, or applications for an IDE, unless categorically excluded in § 25.34.
(o) Issuance of an order finding a tobacco product substantially equivalent under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or granting of a request for an exemption under 21 CFR part 1107 from the requirement of demonstrating substantial equivalence, unless categorically excluded under § 25.35.
(p) Issuance of an order authorizing marketing of a new tobacco product under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or an order authorizing marketing of a modified risk tobacco product under section 911 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless categorically excluded under § 25.35.
(q) Establishment, amendment, or revocation of an import tolerance in accordance with subpart C of part 510 of this chapter.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 30355, May 11, 2000; 72 FR 69118, Dec. 6, 2007; 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015; 81 FR 55047, Aug. 17, 2016; 86 FR 52410, Sept. 21, 2021]
§ 25.21
Extraordinary circumstances.
As required under 40 CFR 1508.4, FDA will require at least an EA for any specific action that ordinarily would be excluded if extraordinary circumstances indicate that the specific proposed action may significantly affect the quality of the human environment (see 40 CFR 1508.27 for examples of significant impacts). Examples of such extraordinary circumstances include:
(a) Actions for which available data establish that, at the expected level of exposure, there is the potential for serious harm to the environment; and
(b) Actions that adversely affect a species or the critical habitat of a species determined under the Endangered Species Act or the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna to be endangered or threatened or wild flora or fauna that are entitled to special protection under some other Federal law.
§ 25.22
Actions requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement.
(a) There are no categories of agency actions that routinely significantly affect the quality of the human environment and that therefore ordinarily require the preparation of an EIS.
(b) EIS's are prepared for agency actions when evaluation of data or information in an EA or otherwise available to the agency leads to a finding by the responsible agency official that a proposed action may significantly affect the quality of the human environment.

# Subpart C—Categorical Exclusions
§ 25.30
General.
The classes of actions listed in this section and §§ 25.31 through 25.35 are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Routine administrative and management activities, including inspections, and issuance of field compliance programs, program circulars, or field investigative assignments.
(b) Recommendation for an enforcement action to be initiated in a Federal court.
(c) Agency requests for initiation of recalls.
(d) Destruction or disposition of any FDA-regulated article condemned after seizure or the distribution or use of which has been enjoined or following detention or recall at agency request if the method of destruction or disposition of the article, including packaging material, is in compliance with all Federal, State, and local requirements.
(e) Extramural contracts, other agreements, or grants for statistical and epidemiological studies, surveys and inventories, literature searches, and report and manual preparation, or any other studies that will not result in the production or distribution of any substance and, therefore, will not result in the introduction of any substance into the environment.
(f) Extramural contracts, other agreements, and grants for research for such purposes as to develop analytical methods or other test methodologies.
(g) Activities of voluntary Federal-State cooperative programs, including issuance of model regulations proposed for State adoption.
(h) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of procedural or administrative regulations and guidance documents, including procedures for submission of applications for product development, testing and investigational use, and approval.
(i) Corrections and technical changes in regulations.
(j) Issuance of CGMP regulations, HACCP regulations, establishment standards, emergency permit control regulations, GLP regulations, and issuance or denial of permits, exemptions, variances, or stays under these regulations.
(k) Establishment or repeal by regulation of labeling requirements for marketed articles if there will be no increase in the existing levels of use or change in the intended uses of the product or its substitutes.
(l) Routine maintenance and minor construction activities such as:
(1) Repair to or replacement of equipment or structural components (e.g., door, roof, or window) of facilities controlled by FDA;
(2) Lease extensions, renewals, or succeeding leases;
(3) Construction or lease construction of 10,000 square feet or less of occupiable space;
(4) Relocation of employees into existing owned or currently leased space;
(5) Acquisition of 20,000 square feet or less of occupiable space in a structure that was substantially completed before the issuance of solicitation for offers; and
(6) Acquisition of between 20,000 square feet and 40,000 square feet of occupiable space if it constitutes less than 40 percent of the occupiable space in a structure that was substantially completed before the solicitation for offers.
(m) Disposal of low-level radioactive waste materials (as defined in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations at 10 CFR 61.2) and chemical waste materials generated in the laboratories serviced by the contracts administered by FDA, if the waste is disposed of in compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local requirements.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 56479, Sept. 19, 2000; 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 25.31
Human drugs and biologics.
The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Action on an NDA, abbreviated application, application for marketing approval of a biologic product, or a supplement to such applications, or action on an OTC monograph, if the action does not increase the use of the active moiety.
(b) Action on an NDA, abbreviated application, or a supplement to such applications, or action on an OTC monograph, if the action increases the use of the active moiety, but the estimated concentration of the substance at the point of entry into the aquatic environment will be below 1 part per billion.
(c) Action on an NDA, abbreviated application, application for marketing approval of a biologic product, or a supplement to such applications, or action on an OTC monograph, for substances that occur naturally in the environment when the action does not alter significantly the concentration or distribution of the substance, its metabolites, or degradation products in the environment.
(d) Withdrawal of approval of an NDA or an abbreviated application.
(e) Action on an IND.
(f) Testing and release by the Food and Drug Administration of lots or batches of a licensed biologic product.
(g) Establishment of bioequivalence requirements for a human drug or a comparability determination for a biologic product subject to licensing.
(h) Issuance, revocation, or amendment of a standard for a biologic product.
(i) Revocation of a license for a biologic product.
(j) Action on an application for marketing approval for marketing of a biologic product for transfusable human blood or blood components and plasma.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 26697, May 13, 1998; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 70 FR 14980, Mar. 24, 2005]
§ 25.32
Foods, food additives, and color additives.
The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Issuance, amendment, or repeal of a food standard.
(b) Action on a request for exemption for investigational use of a food additive if the food additive to be shipped under the request is intended to be used for clinical studies or research.
(c) Approval of a color additive petition to change a provisionally listed color additive to permanent listing for use in food, drugs, devices, or cosmetics.
(d) Testing and certification of batches of a color additive.
(e) Issuance of an interim food additive regulation.
(f) Establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, and establishment or amendment of a regulation for a prior-sanctioned food ingredient, as defined in §§ 170.3(l) and 181.5(a) of this chapter, if the substance or food ingredient is already marketed in the United States for the proposed use.
(g) Issuance and enforcement of regulations relating to the control of communicable diseases or to interstate conveyance sanitation under parts 1240 and 1250 of this chapter.
(h) Approval of a request for diversion of adulterated or misbranded food for humans or animals to use as animal feeds.
(i) Approval of a food additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, when the substance is present in finished food-packaging material at not greater than 5 percent-by-weight and is expected to remain with finished food-packaging material through use by consumers or when the substance is a component of a coating of a finished food-packaging material.
(j) Approval of a food additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, when the substance is to be used as a component of a food-contact surface of permanent or semipermanent equipment or of another food-contact article intended for repeated use.
(k) Approval of a food additive petition or color additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, for substances added directly to food that are intended to remain in food through ingestion by consumers and that are not intended to replace macronutrients in food.
(l) Approval of a petition for color additives used in contact lenses, sutures, filaments used as supporting haptics in intraocular lenses, bone cement, and in other FDA-regulated products having similarly low levels of use.
(m) Action to prohibit or otherwise restrict or reduce the use of a substance in food, food packaging, or cosmetics.
(n) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of a regulation pertaining to infant formulas.
(o) Approval of a food additive petition for the intended expression product(s) present in food derived from new plant varieties.
(p) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of a regulation in response to a reference amount petition as described in § 101.12(h) of this chapter, a nutrient content claim petition as described in § 101.69 of this chapter, a health claim petition as described in § 101.70 of this chapter, or a petition pertaining to the label declaration of ingredients as described in § 10.30 of this chapter.
(q) Approval of a food additive petition, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective for a substance registered by the Environmental Protection Agency under FIFRA for the same use requested in the petition, request for exemption, or notification.
(r) Approval of a food additive petition or color additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective for a substance that occurs naturally in the environment, when the action does not alter significantly the concentration or distribution of the substance, its metabolites, or degradation products in the environment.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 30355, May 11, 2000; 76 FR 59248, Sept. 26, 2011; 81 FR 55047, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 25.33
Animal drugs.
The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Action on an NADA, abbreviated application, request for determination of eligibility for indexing, a supplement to such applications, or a modification of an index listing, if the action does not increase the use of the drug. Actions to which this categorical exclusion applies may include:
(1) An animal drug to be marketed under the same conditions of approval as a previously approved animal drug;
(2) A combination of previously approved animal drugs;
(3) A new premix or other formulation of a previously approved animal drug;
(4) Changes specified in § 514.8(b)(3), (b)(4), or (c)(3) of this chapter;
(5) A change of sponsor; or
(6) A previously approved animal drug to be contained in medicated feed blocks under § 510.455 of this chapter or as a liquid feed supplement under § 558.5 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Action on an NADA, abbreviated application, request for determination of eligibility for indexing, a supplement to such applications, or a modification of an index listing, for substances that occur naturally in the environment when the action does not alter significantly the concentration or distribution of the substance, its metabolites, or degradation products in the environment.
(d) Action on an NADA, abbreviated application, request for determination of eligibility for indexing, a supplement to such applications, or a modification of an index listing, for:
(1) Drugs intended for use in nonfood animals;
(2) Anesthetics, both local and general, that are individually administered;
(3) Nonsystemic topical and ophthalmic animal drugs;
(4) Drugs for minor species, including wildlife and endangered species, when the drug has been previously approved for use in another or the same species where similar animal management practices are used; and
(5) Drugs intended for use under prescription or veterinarian's order for therapeutic use in terrestrial species.
(e) Action on an INAD.
(f) Action on an application submitted under section 512(m) of the act.
(g) Withdrawal of approval of an NADA or an abbreviated NADA or removal of a new animal drug from the index.
(h) Withdrawal of approval of a food additive petition that reduces or eliminates animal feed uses of a food additive.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 74782, Dec. 13, 2006; 72 FR 69119, Dec. 6, 2007; 85 FR 72907, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 25.34
Devices and electronic products.
The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Action on a device premarket notification submission under subpart E of part 807 of this chapter.
(b) Classification or reclassification of a device under part 860 of this chapter, including the establishment of special controls, if the action will not result in increases in the existing levels of use of the device or changes in the intended use of the device or its substitutes.
(c) Issuance, amendment, or repeal of a standard for a class II medical device or an electronic product, and issuance of exemptions or variances from such a standard.
(d) Approval of a PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP or amended or supplemental applications or notices for a class III medical device if the device is of the same type and for the same use as a previously approved device.
(e) Changes in the PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP for a class III medical device that do not require submission of an amended or supplemental application or notice.
(f) Issuance of a restricted device regulation if it will not result in increases in the existing levels of use or changes in the intended uses of the product or its substitutes.
(g) Action on an application for an IDE or an authorization to commence a clinical investigation under an approved PDP.
(h) Issuance of a regulation exempting from preemption a requirement of a State or political subdivision concerning a device, or a denial of an application for such exemption.
(i) Approval of humanitarian device exemption under subpart H of part 814 of this chapter.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 69277, Nov. 15, 2005]
§ 25.35
Tobacco product applications.
The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, normally do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:
(a) Issuance of an order finding a tobacco product substantially equivalent under section 910(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(b) Issuance of an order finding a tobacco product not substantially equivalent under section 910(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, denial of a request for an exemption under 21 CFR part 1107 from the requirement of demonstrating substantial equivalence, issuance of an order under section 910(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act that a new tobacco product may not be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce, or issuance of an order under section 911 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act that a modified risk tobacco product may not be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce;
(c) Rescission or temporary suspension of an order authorizing the marketing of a new tobacco product under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(d) Rescission of an order authorizing the marketing of a modified risk tobacco product under section 911 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; and
(e) Rescission of an order granting an exemption request under § 1107.1 of this chapter.
[80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]

# Subpart D—Preparation of Environmental Documents
§ 25.40
Environmental assessments.
(a) As defined by CEQ in 40 CFR 1508.9, an EA is a concise public document that serves to provide sufficient evidence and analysis for an agency to determine whether to prepare an EIS or a FONSI. The EA shall include brief discussions of the need for the proposal, of alternatives as required by section 102(2)(E) of NEPA, of the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, and a listing of agencies and persons consulted. An EA shall be prepared for each action not categorically excluded in § 25.30, § 25.31, § 25.32, § 25.33, or § 25.34, or § 25.35. The EA shall focus on relevant environmental issues relating to the use and
disposal from use of FDA-regulated articles and shall be a concise, objective, and well-balanced document that allows the public to understand the agency's decision. If potentially adverse environmental impacts are identified for an action or a group of related actions, the EA shall discuss any reasonable alternative course of action that offers less environmental risk or that is environmentally preferable to the proposed action. The use of a scientifically justified tiered testing approach, in which testing may be stopped when the results suggest that no significant impact will occur, is an acceptable approach.
(b) Generally, FDA requires an applicant to prepare an EA and make necessary corrections to it. Ultimately, FDA is responsible for the scope and content of EA's and may include additional information in environmental documents when warranted.
(c) Information concerning the nature and scope of information that an applicant or petitioner shall submit in an EA may be obtained from the center or other office of the agency having responsibility for the action that is the subject of the environmental evaluation. Applicants and petitioners are encouraged to submit proposed protocols for environmental studies for technical review by agency staff. Applicants and petitioners also are encouraged to consult applicable FDA EA guidance documents, which provide additional advice on how to comply with FDA regulations.
(d) Consistent with 40 CFR 1500.4(j) and 1502.21, EA's may incorporate by reference information presented in other documents that are available to FDA and to the public.
(e) The agency evaluates the information contained in an EA and any public input to determine whether it is accurate and objective, whether the proposed action may significantly affect the quality of the human environment, and whether an EIS or a FONSI will be prepared. The responsible agency official examines the environmental risks of the proposed action and the alternative courses of action, selects a course of action, and ensures that any necessary mitigating measures are implemented as a condition for approving the selected course of action.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 17291, Apr. 2, 2004; 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 25.41
Findings of no significant impact.
(a) As defined by the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1508.13), a FONSI is a document prepared by a Federal agency stating briefly why an action, not otherwise excluded, will not significantly affect the human environment and for which, therefore, an EIS will not be prepared. A FONSI includes the EA or a summary of it and a reference to any other related environmental documents.
(b) The agency official(s) responsible for approving the FONSI will sign the document, thereby establishing that the official(s) approve(s) the conclusion not to prepare an EIS for the action under consideration.
§ 25.42
Environmental impact statements.
(a) As defined by CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1508.11) and section 102(2)(C) of NEPA, an EIS should be a clear, concise, and detailed written statement describing:
(1) The environmental impacts of a proposed action;
(2) Any adverse effects that cannot be avoided if the action is implemented;
(3) Alternatives to the action;
(4) The relationship between local short-term uses of the environment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity; and
(5) Any irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources that would be involved in the proposed action should it be implemented.
(b) The CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1501.7 and part 1502) describe the process for determining the scope of an EIS and provide detailed requirements for the preparation of draft and final EIS's. CEQ format and procedures for preparing EIS shall be followed.
(c) Under the conditions prescribed in 40 CFR 1502.9, the agency will prepare a supplement for a draft or final EIS and introduce the supplement into the administrative record.
§ 25.43
Records of decision.
(a) In cases requiring environmental impact statements, at the time of its decision, the agency shall prepare a concise public record of decision.
(b) The record of decision shall:
(1) State what the decision was;
(2) Identify and discuss alternatives considered by the agency in reaching its decision;
(3) State whether all practicable means to avoid or minimize environmental harm have been adopted, and if not, why not; and
(4) Summarize the program for monitoring and enforcing the practicable means adopted to avoid or minimize the environmental harm.
§ 25.44
Lead and cooperating agencies.
For actions requiring the preparation of an EIS, FDA and other affected Federal agencies will agree which will be the lead agency and which will be the cooperating agencies. The responsibilities of lead agencies and cooperating agencies are described in the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1501.5 and 1501.6, respectively). If an action affects more than one center within FDA, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs will designate one of these units to be responsible for coordinating the preparation of any required environmental documentation.
§ 25.45
Responsible agency official.
(a) The responsible agency official prepares the environmental documents or ensures that they are prepared.
(b) The responsible agency official will weigh any environmental impacts of each alternative course of action, including possible mitigation measures, and will balance environmental impacts with the agency's objectives in choosing an appropriate course of action. The weighing of any environmental impacts of alternatives in selecting a final course of action will be reflected in the agency's record of formal decisionmaking as required by 40 CFR 1505.2.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 17291, Apr. 2, 2004]

# Subpart E—Public Participation and Notification of Environmental Documents
§ 25.50
General information.
(a) To the extent actions are not protected from disclosure by existing law applicable to the agency's operation, FDA will involve the public in preparing and implementing its NEPA procedures and will provide public notice of NEPA-related hearings, public meetings, and the availability of environmental documents.
(b) Many FDA actions involving investigations, review, and approval or market authorization of applications, and premarket notifications for human drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, devices, and tobacco products are protected from disclosure under the Trade Secret Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905, and section 301(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. These actions are also protected from disclosure under FDA's regulations including part 20, §§ 312.130(a), 314.430(b), 514.11(b), 514.12(a), 601.50(a), 601.51(a), 807.95(b), 812.38(a), and 814.9(b) of this chapter. Even the existence of applications for human drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, devices, and tobacco products is protected from disclosure under these regulations. Therefore, unless the existence of applications for human drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, tobacco products, or premarket notification for devices has been made publicly available, the release of the environmental document before approval or authorization of human drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, devices and tobacco products is inconsistent with statutory requirements imposed on FDA. Appropriate environmental documents, comments, and responses will be included in the administrative record to the extent allowed by applicable laws.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 25.51
Environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact.
(a) Data and information that are protected from disclosure by 18 U.S.C. 1905 or 21 U.S.C. 331(j) or 360j(c) shall
not be included in the portion of environmental documents that is made public. When such data and information are pertinent to the environmental review of a proposed action, an applicant or petitioner shall submit such data and information separately in a confidential section and shall summarize the confidential data and information in the EA to the extent possible.
(b) FONSI's and EA's will be available to the public in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.6 as follows:
(1) When the proposed action is the subject of a notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of filing published in the
Federal Register,
the notice shall state that no EIS is necessary and that the FONSI and the EA are available for public inspection at FDA's Dockets Management Staff. If the responsible agency official is unable to complete environmental consideration of the proposed action before a notice of filing of a food or color additive petition is required to be published under the act, and if the subsequent environmental analysis leads to the conclusion that no EIS is necessary, the final regulation rather than the notice of filing shall state that no EIS is necessary and that the FONSI and the EA are available upon request and filed in FDA's Dockets Management Staff.
(2) For actions for which notice is not published in the
Federal Register,
the FONSI and the EA shall be made available to the public upon request according to the procedures in 40 CFR 1506.6.
(3) For a limited number of actions, the agency may make the FONSI and EA available for public review (including review by State and areawide information clearinghouses) for 30 days before the agency makes its final determination whether to prepare an EIS and before the action may begin, as described in 40 CFR 1501.4(e). This procedure will be followed when the proposed action is, or is closely similar to, one that normally requires an EIS or when the proposed action is one without precedent.
§ 25.52
Environmental impact statements.
(a) If FDA determines that an EIS is necessary for an action involving investigations, approvals, or market authorizations for drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, devices, or tobacco products, an EIS will be prepared but will become available only at the time of the approval or market authorization of the product. The EIS will in all other respects conform to the requirements for EIS's as specified in 40 CFR part 1502 and 1506.6(f).
(b) Comments on the EIS may be submitted after the approval or market authorization of the drug, animal drug, biologic product, device, or tobacco product. Those comments can form the basis for the Agency to consider beginning an action to withdraw the approval or market authorization of applications for a drug, animal drug, biologic product, or tobacco product, or to withdraw premarket notifications or premarket approval applications for devices.
(c) In those cases where the existence of applications and premarket notifications for drugs, animal drugs, biologic products, devices, or tobacco products has already been disclosed before the Agency approves the action, the Agency will ensure appropriate public involvement consistent with 40 CFR 1506.6 and part 1503 in preparing and implementing the NEPA procedures related to preparing EISs while following its own disclosure requirements including those listed in part 20 and §§ 312.130(b), 314.430(d), 514.11(d), 514.12(b), 601.51(d), 807.95(e), 812.38(b), and 814.9(d) of this chapter.
(d) Draft and final EIS's, comments, and responses will be included in the administrative record and will be available from the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
[62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 24879, May 9, 2003; 80 FR 57535, Sept. 24, 2015]

# Subpart F—Other Requirements
§ 25.60
Environmental effects abroad of major agency actions.
(a) In accordance with Executive Order 12114, “Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions” of January 4, 1979 (44 FR 1957, January 9, 1979), the responsible agency official, in analyzing actions under his or her program, shall consider the environmental effects abroad, including whether the actions involve:
(1) Potential environmental effects on the global commons and areas outside the jurisdiction of any nation, e.g., oceans and the upper atmosphere.
(2) Potential environmental effects on a foreign nation not participating with or otherwise involved in an FDA activity.
(3) The export of products (or emissions) that in the United States are prohibited or strictly regulated because their effects on the environment create a serious public health risk.
(4) Potential environmental effects on natural and ecological resources of global importance designated under the Executive Order.
(b) Before deciding on any action falling into the categories specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the responsible agency official shall determine, in accordance with section 2-3 of the Executive Order, whether such actions may have a significant environmental effect abroad.
(c) If the responsible agency official determines that an action may have a significant environmental effect abroad, the responsible agency official shall determine, in accordance with section 2-4 (a) and (b) of the Executive Order, whether the subject action calls for:
(1) An EIS;
(2) A bilateral or multilateral environmental study; or
(3) A concise environmental review.
(d) In preparing environmental documents under this subpart, the responsible official shall:
(1) Determine, as provided in section 2-5 of the Executive Order, whether proposed actions are subject to the exemptions, exclusions, and modification in contents, timing, and availability of documents.
(2) Coordinate all communications with foreign governments concerning environmental agreements and other arrangements in implementing the Executive Order.
Pt. 26

# PART 26—MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
Sec.
26.0
General.

# Subpart A—Specific Sector Provisions for Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices
26.1
Definitions.
26.2
Purpose.
26.3
Scope.
26.4
Product coverage.
26.5
Length of transition period.
26.6
Equivalence assessment.
26.7
Participation in the equivalence assessment and determination.
26.8
Other transition activities.
26.9
Equivalence determination.
26.10
Regulatory authorities not listed as currently equivalent.
26.11
Start of operational period.
26.12
Nature of recognition of inspection reports.
26.13
Transmission of postapproval inspection reports.
26.14
Transmission of preapproval inspection reports.
26.15
Monitoring continued equivalence.
26.16
Suspension.
26.17
Role and composition of the Joint Sectoral Committee.
26.18
Regulatory collaboration.
26.19
Information relating to quality aspects.
26.20
Alert system.
26.21
Safeguard clause.
Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 26—List of Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Administrative Provisions.
Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 26—List of Authorities.
Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 26—Indicative List of Products Covered by Subpart A.
Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 26—Criteria for Assessing Equivalence for Post- and Preapproval.
Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 26—Elements To Be Considered in Developing a Two-Way Alert System.

# Subpart B—Specific Sector Provisions for Medical Devices
26.31
Purpose.
26.32
Scope.
26.33
Product coverage.
26.34
Regulatory authorities.
26.35
Length and purpose of transition period.
26.36
Listing of CAB's.
26.37
Confidence building activities.
26.38
Other transition period activities.
26.39
Equivalence assessment.
26.40
Start of the operational period.
26.41
Exchange and endorsement of quality system evaluation reports.
26.42
Exchange and endorsement of product evaluation reports.
26.43
Transmission of quality system evaluation reports.
26.44
Transmission of product evaluation reports.
26.45
Monitoring continued equivalence.
26.46
Listing of additional CAB's.
26.47
Role and composition of the Joint Sectoral Committee.
26.48
Harmonization.
26.49
Regulatory cooperation.
26.50
Alert system and exchange of postmarket vigilance reports.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 26—Relevant Legislation, Regulations, and Procedures.
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 26—Scope of Product Coverage.
Appendixes C-F to Subpart B of Part 26 [Reserved]

# Subpart C—“Framework” Provisions
26.60
Definitions.
26.61
Purpose of this part.
26.62
General obligations.
26.63
General coverage of this part.
26.64
Transitional arrangements.
26.65
Designating authorities.
26.66
Designation and listing procedures.
26.67
Suspension of listed conformity assessment bodies.
26.68
Withdrawal of listed conformity assessment bodies.
26.69
Monitoring of conformity assessment bodies.
26.70
Conformity assessment bodies.
26.71
Exchange of information.
26.72
Sectoral contact points.
26.73
Joint Committee.
26.74
Preservation of regulatory authority.
26.75
Suspension of recognition obligations.
26.76
Confidentiality.
26.77
Fees.
26.78
Agreements with other countries.
26.79
Territorial application.
26.80
Entry into force, amendment, and termination.
26.81
Final provisions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 15 U.S.C. 1453, 1454, 1455; 18 U.S.C. 1905; 21 U.S.C. 321, 331, 351, 352, 355, 360, 360b, 360c, 360d, 360e, 360f, 360g, 360h, 360i, 360j, 360l, 360m, 371, 374, 381, 382, 383, 393; 42 U.S.C. 216, 241, 242l, 262, 264, 265.

# Source:
63 FR 60141, Nov. 6, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 26.0
General.
This part substantially reflects relevant provisions of the framework agreement and its sectoral annexes on pharmaceutical good manufacturing practices (GMP's) and medical devices of the “Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community” (the MRA), signed at London May 18, 1998. For codification purposes, certain provisions of the MRA have been modified for use in this part. This modification is done for purposes of clarity only and shall not affect the text of the MRA concluded between the United States and the European Community (EC), or the rights and obligations of the United States or the EC under that agreement. Whereas the parties to the MRA are the United States and EC, this part is relevant only to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) implementation of the MRA, including the sectoral annexes reflected in subparts A and B of this part. This part does not govern implementation of the MRA by the EC, which will implement the MRA in accordance with its internal procedures, nor does this part address implementation of the MRA by other concerned U.S. Federal agencies. For purposes of this part, the terms “party” or “parties,” where relevant to FDA's implementation of the MRA, should be considered as referring to FDA only. If the parties to the MRA subsequently amend or terminate the MRA, FDA will modify this part accordingly, using appropriate administrative procedures.

# Subpart A—Specific Sector Provisions for Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices
§ 26.1
Definitions.
(a)
Enforcement
means action taken by an authority to protect the public from products of suspect quality, safety, and effectiveness or to assure that products are manufactured in compliance with appropriate laws, regulations, standards, and commitments made as part of the approval to market a product.
(b)
Equivalence
of the regulatory systems means that the systems are sufficiently comparable to assure that the process of inspection and the ensuing inspection reports will provide adequate information to determine whether respective statutory and regulatory requirements of the authorities have been fulfilled. Equivalence does not require that the respective regulatory systems have identical procedures.
(c)
Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP's). [The United States has clarified its interpretation that under the MRA, paragraph (c)(1) of this section has to be understood as the U.S. definition and paragraph (c)(2) as the EC definition.]
(1) GMP's mean the requirements found in the legislations, regulations, and administrative provisions for methods to be used in, and the facilities or controls to be used for, the manufacturing, processing, packing, and/or holding of a drug to assure that such drug meets the requirements as to safety, and has the identity and strength, and meets the quality and purity characteristics that it purports or is represented to possess.
(2) GMP's are that part of quality assurance which ensures that products are consistently produced and controlled to quality standards. For the purpose of this subpart, GMP's include, therefore, the system whereby the manufacturer receives the specifications of the product and/or process from the marketing authorization/product authorization or license holder or applicant and ensures the product is made in compliance with its specifications (qualified person certification in the EC).
(d)
Inspection
means an onsite evaluation of a manufacturing facility to determine whether such manufacturing facility is operating in compliance with GMP's and/or commitments made as part of the approval to market a product.
(e)
Inspection report
means the written observations and GMP's compliance assessment completed by an authority listed in appendix B of this subpart.
(f)
Regulatory system
means the body of legal requirements for GMP's, inspections, and enforcements that ensure public health protection and legal authority to assure adherence to these requirements.
[63 FR 60141, Nov. 6, 1998; 64 FR 16348, Apr. 5, 1999]
§ 26.2
Purpose.
The provisions of this subpart govern the exchange between the parties and normal endorsement by the receiving regulatory authority of official good manufacturing practices (GMP's) inspection reports after a transitional period aimed at determination of the equivalence of the regulatory systems of the parties, which is the cornerstone of this subpart.
§ 26.3
Scope.
(a) The provisions of this subpart shall apply to pharmaceutical inspections carried out in the United States and Member States of the European Community (EC) before products are marketed (hereafter referred to as “preapproval inspections”) as well as during their marketing (hereafter referred to as “postapproval inspections”).
(b) Appendix A of this subpart names the laws, regulations, and administrative provisions governing these inspections and the good manufacturing practices (GMP's) requirements.
(c) Appendix B of this subpart lists the authorities participating in activities under this subpart.
(d) Sections 26.65, 26.66, 26.67, 26.68, 26.69, and 26.70 of subpart C of this part do not apply to this subpart.
§ 26.4
Product coverage.
(a) The provisions of this subpart will apply to medicinal products for human
or animal use, intermediates and starting materials (as referred to in the European Community (EC)) and to drugs for human or animal use, biological products for human use, and active pharmaceutical ingredients (as referred to in the United States), only to the extent they are regulated by the authorities of both parties as listed in appendix B of this subpart.
(b) Human blood, human plasma, human tissues and organs, and veterinary immunologicals (under 9 CFR 101.2, “veterinary immunologicals” are referred to as “veterinary biologicals”) are excluded from the scope of this subpart. Human plasma derivatives (such as immunoglobulins and albumin), investigational medicinal products/new drugs, human radiopharmaceuticals, and medicinal gases are also excluded during the transition phase; their situation will be reconsidered at the end of the transition period. Products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research or Center for Drug Evaluation and Research as devices are not covered under this subpart.
(c) Appendix C of this subpart contains an indicative list of products covered by this subpart.
[63 FR 60141, Nov. 6, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 14980, Mar. 24, 2005]
§ 26.5
Length of transition period.
A 3-year transition period will start immediately after the effective date described in § 26.80(a).
§ 26.6
Equivalence assessment.
(a) The criteria to be used by the parties to assess equivalence are listed in appendix D of this subpart. Information pertaining to the criteria under European Community (EC) competence will be provided by the EC.
(b) The authorities of the parties will establish and communicate to each other their draft programs for assessing the equivalence of the respective regulatory systems in terms of quality assurance of the products and consumer protection. These programs will be carried out, as deemed necessary by the regulatory authorities, for post- and preapproval inspections and for various product classes or processes.
(c) The equivalence assessment shall include information exchanges (including inspection reports), joint training, and joint inspections for the purpose of assessing regulatory systems and the authorities' capabilities. In conducting the equivalence assessment, the parties will ensure that efforts are made to save resources.
(d) Equivalence assessment for authorities added to appendix B of this subpart after the effective date described in § 26.80(a) will be conducted as described in this subpart, as soon as practicable.
§ 26.7
Participation in the equivalence assessment and determination.
The authorities listed in appendix B of this subpart will actively participate in these programs to build a sufficient body of evidence for their equivalence determination. Both parties will exercise good faith efforts to complete equivalence assessment as expeditiously as possible to the extent the resources of the authorities allow.
§ 26.8
Other transition activities.
As soon as possible, the authorities will jointly determine the essential information which must be present in inspection reports and will cooperate to develop mutually agreed inspection report format(s).
§ 26.9
Equivalence determination.
(a) Equivalence is established by having in place regulatory systems covering the criteria referred to in appendix D of this subpart, and a demonstrated pattern of consistent performance in accordance with these criteria. A list of authorities determined as equivalent shall be agreed to by the Joint Sectoral Committee at the end of the transition period, with reference to any limitation in terms of inspection type (e.g., postapproval or preapproval) or product classes or processes.
(b) The parties will document insufficient evidence of equivalence, lack of opportunity to assess equivalence or a determination of nonequivalence, in sufficient detail to allow the authority being assessed to know how to attain equivalence.
§ 26.10
Regulatory authorities not listed as currently equivalent.
Authorities not currently listed as equivalent, or not equivalent for certain types of inspections, product classes or processes may apply for reconsideration of their status once the necessary corrective measures have been taken or additional experience is gained.
§ 26.11
Start of operational period.
(a) The operational period shall start at the end of the transition period and its provisions apply to inspection reports generated by authorities listed as equivalent for the inspections performed in their territory.
(b) In addition, when an authority is not listed as equivalent based on adequate experience gained during the transition period, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will accept for normal endorsement (as provided in § 26.12) inspection reports generated as a result of inspections conducted jointly by that authority on its territory and another authority listed as equivalent, provided that the authority of the Member State in which the inspection is performed can guarantee enforcement of the findings of the inspection report and require that corrective measures be taken when necessary. FDA has the option to participate in these inspections, and based on experience gained during the transition period, the parties will agree on procedures for exercising this option.
(c) In the European Community (EC), the qualified person will be relieved of responsibility for carrying the controls laid down in Article 22 paragraph 1(b) of Council Directive 75/319/EEC (see appendix A of this subpart) provided that these controls have been carried out in the United States and that each batch/lot is accompanied by a batch certificate (in accordance with the World Health Organization Certification Scheme on the Quality of Medicinal Products) issued by the manufacturer certifying that the product complies with requirements of the marketing authorization and signed by the person responsible for releasing the batch/lot.
§ 26.12
Nature of recognition of inspection reports.
(a) Inspection reports (containing information as established under § 26.8), including a good manufacturing practice (GMP) compliance assessment, prepared by authorities listed as equivalent, will be provided to the authority of the importing party. Based on the determination of equivalence in light of the experience gained, these inspection reports will normally be endorsed by the authority of the importing party, except under specific and delineated circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include indications of material inconsistencies or inadequacies in an inspection report, quality defects identified in the postmarket surveillance or other specific evidence of serious concern in relation to product quality or consumer safety. In such cases, the authority of the importing party may request clarification from the authority of the exporting party which may lead to a request for reinspection. The authorities will endeavor to respond to requests for clarification in a timely manner.
(b) Where divergence is not clarified in this process, an authority of the importing country may carry out an inspection of the production facility.
§ 26.13
Transmission of postapproval inspection reports.
Postapproval good manufacturing practice (GMP) inspection reports concerning products covered by this subpart will be transmitted to the authority of the importing country within 60-calendar days of the request. Should a new inspection be needed, the inspection report will be transmitted within 90-calendar days of the request.
§ 26.14
Transmission of preapproval inspection reports.
(a) A preliminary notification that an inspection may have to take place will be made as soon as possible.
(b) Within 15-calendar days, the relevant authority will acknowledge receipt of the request and confirm its ability to carry out the inspection. In the European Community (EC), requests will be sent directly to the relevant authority, with a copy to the European Agency for the Evaluation of
Medicinal Products (EMEA). If the authority receiving the request cannot carry out the inspection as requested, the requesting authority shall have the right to conduct the inspection.
(c) Reports of preapproval inspections will be sent within 45-calendar days of the request that transmitted the appropriate information and detailed the precise issues to be addressed during the inspection. A shorter time may be necessary in exceptional cases and these will be described in the request.
§ 26.15
Monitoring continued equivalence.
Monitoring activities for the purpose of maintaining equivalence shall include review of the exchange of inspection reports and their quality and timeliness; performance of a limited number of joint inspections; and the conduct of common training sessions.
§ 26.16
Suspension.
(a) Each party has the right to contest the equivalence of a regulatory authority. This right will be exercised in an objective and reasoned manner in writing to the other party.
(b) The issue shall be discussed in the Joint Sectoral Committee promptly upon such notification. Where the Joint Sectoral Committee determines that verification of equivalence is required, it may be carried out jointly by the parties in a timely manner, under § 26.6.
(c) Efforts will be made by the Joint Sectoral Committee to reach unanimous consent on the appropriate action. If agreement to suspend is reached in the Joint Sectoral Committee, an authority may be suspended immediately thereafter. If no agreement is reached in the Joint Sectoral Committee, the matter is referred to the Joint Committee as described in § 26.73. If no unanimous consent is reached within 30 days after such notification, the contested authority will be suspended.
(d) Upon the suspension of authority previously listed as equivalent, a party is no longer obligated to normally endorse the inspection reports of the suspended authority. A party shall continue to normally endorse the inspection reports of that authority prior to suspension, unless the authority of the receiving party decides otherwise based on health or safety considerations. The suspension will remain in effect until unanimous consent has been reached by the parties on the future status of that authority.
§ 26.17
Role and composition of the Joint Sectoral Committee.
(a) A Joint Sectoral Committee is set up to monitor the activities under both the transitional and operational phases of this subpart.
(b) The Joint Sectoral Committee will be cochaired by a representative of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the United States and a representative of the European Community (EC) who each will have one vote. Decisions will be taken by unanimous consent.
(c) The Joint Sectoral Committee's functions will include:
(1) Making a joint assessment, which must be agreed by both parties, of the equivalence of the respective authorities;
(2) Developing and maintaining the list of equivalent authorities, including any limitation in terms of inspecting type or products, and communicating the list to all authorities and the Joint Committee;
(3) Providing a forum to discuss issues relating to this subpart, including concerns that an authority may be no longer equivalent and opportunity to review product coverage; and
(4) Consideration of the issue of suspension.
(d) The Joint Sectoral Committee shall meet at the request of either party and, unless the cochairs otherwise agree, at least once each year. The Joint Committee will be kept informed of the agenda and conclusions of meetings of the Joint Sectoral Committee.
§ 26.18
Regulatory collaboration.
(a) The parties and authorities shall inform and consult one another, as permitted by law, on proposals to introduce new controls or to change existing technical regulations or inspection procedures and to provide the opportunity to comment on such proposals.
(b) The parties shall notify each other in writing of any changes to appendix B of this subpart.
§ 26.19
Information relating to quality aspects.
The authorities will establish an appropriate means of exchanging information on any confirmed problem reports, corrective actions, recalls, rejected import consignments, and other regulatory and enforcement problems for products subject to this subpart.
§ 26.20
Alert system.
(a) The details of an alert system will be developed during the transitional period. The system will be maintained in place at all times. Elements to be considered in developing such a system are described in appendix E of this subpart.
(b) Contact points will be agreed between both parties to permit authorities to be made aware with the appropriate speed in case of quality defect, recalls, counterfeiting, and other problems concerning quality, which could necessitate additional controls or suspension of the distribution of the product.
§ 26.21
Safeguard clause.
Each party recognizes that the importing country has a right to fulfill its legal responsibilities by taking actions necessary to ensure the protection of human and animal health at the level of protection it deems appropriate. This includes the suspension of the distribution, product detention at the border of the importing country, withdrawal of the batches and any request for additional information or inspection as provided in § 26.12.
Pt. 26, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 26—List of Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Administrative Provisions

# 1. For the European Community (EC):
[Copies of EC documents may be obtained from the European Document Research, 1100 17th St. NW., suite 301, Washington, DC 20036. EC documents may be viewed on the European Commission Pharmaceuticals Units web site at
http://dg3.eudra.org.
]
Council Directive 65/65/EEC of 26 January 1965 on the approximation of provisions laid down by law, regulation, or administrative action relating to proprietary medicinal products as extended, widened, and amended.
Council Directive 75/319/EEC of 20 May 1975 on the approximation of provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action relating to proprietary medicinal products as extended, widened and amended.
Council Directive 81/851/EEC of 28 September 1981 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to veterinary medicinal products, as widened and amended.
Commission Directive 91/356/EEC of 13 June 1991 laying down the principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practice for medicinal products for human use.
Commission Directive 91/412/EEC of 23 July 1991 laying down the principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products.
Council Regulation EEC No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products.
Council Directive 92/25/EEC of 31 March 1992 on the wholesale distribution of medicinal products for human use.
Guide to Good Distribution Practice (94/C 63/03).
Current version of the Guide to Good Manufacturing Practice, Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Community, Volume IV.

# 2. For the United States:
[Copies of FDA documents may be obtained from the Government Printing Office, 1510 H St. NW., Washington, DC 20005. FDA documents, except the FDA Compliance Program Guidance Manual, may be viewed on FDA's Internet web site at
http://www.fda.gov.
]
Relevant sections of the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the United States Public Health Service Act.
Relevant sections of Title 21, United States Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Parts 1-99, Parts 200-299, Parts 500-599, and Parts 600-799.
Relevant sections of the FDA Investigations Operations Manual, the FDA Regulatory Procedures Manual, the FDA Compliance Policy Guidance Manual, the FDA Compliance Program Guidance Manual, and other FDA guidances.
Pt. 26, Subpt. A, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 26—List of Authorities

# 1. For the United States: In the United States, the regulatory authority is the Food and Drug Administration.

# 2. For the European Community: In the European Community, the regulatory authorities are the following:
Belgium: Inspection générale de la Pharmacie, Algemene Farmaceutische Inspectie.
Denmark: Laegemiddelstyrelsen.
Germany: Bundesministerium für Gesundheit for immunologicals: Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Federal Agency for Sera and Vaccines.
Greece: Εθνικως Ωργανισμως Φαρμακωυ, Ministry of Health and Welfare, National Drug Organization (E.O.F).
Spain: For medicinal products for human use: Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo, Subdirección General de Control Farmacéutico. For medicinal products for veterinary use: Ministerio de Agricultura, Pesca y Alimentación (MAPA), Dirección General de la Producción Agraria.
France: For medicinal products for human use: Agence du Médicament. For veterinary medicinal products: Agence Nationale du Médicament Vétérinaire.
Ireland: Irish Medicines Board.
Italy: For medicinal products for human use: Ministero della Sanità, Dipartimento Farmaci e Farmacovigilanza. For medicinal products for veterinary use: Ministero della Sanità, Dipartimento alimenti e nutrizione e sanità pubblica veterinaria-Div. IX.
Luxembourg: Division de la Pharmacie et des Médicaments.
Netherlands: Staat der Nederlanden.
Austria: Bundesministerium für Arbeit, Gesundheit und Soziales.
Portugal: Instituto da Farmácia e do Medicamento (INFARMED).
Finland: Lääkelaitos/Läkemedelsverket (National Agency for Medicines).
Sweden: Läkemedelsverket-Medical Products Agency.
United Kingdom: For human use and veterinary (non-immunologicals): Medicines Control Agency. For veterinary immunologicals: Veterinary Medicines Directorate.
European Community: Commission of the European Communities. European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA).
Pt. 26, Subpt. A, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 26—Indicative List of Products Covered by Subpart A
Recognizing that precise definition of medicinal products and drugs are to be found in the legislation referred to above, an indicative list of products covered by this arrangement is given below:
—human medicinal products including prescription and nonprescription drugs;
—human biologicals including vaccines, and immunologicals;
—veterinary pharmaceuticals, including prescription and nonprescription drugs, with the exclusion of veterinary immunologicals (Under 9 CFR 101.2 “veterinary immunologicals” are referred to as “veterinary biologicals”);
—premixes for the preparation of veterinary medicated feeds (EC), Type A medicated articles for the preparation of veterinary medicated feeds (United States);
—intermediate products and active pharmaceutical ingredients or bulk pharmaceuticals (United States)/starting materials (EC).
Pt. 26, Subpt. A, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 26—Criteria for Assessing Equivalence for Post- and Preapproval

# I. Legal/Regulatory authority and structures and procedures providing for post- and preapproval:
A. Appropriate statutory mandate and jurisdiction.
B. Ability to issue and update binding requirements on GMP's and guidance documents.
C. Authority to make inspections, review and copy documents, and to take samples and collect other evidence.
D. Ability to enforce requirements and to remove products found in violation of such requirements from the market.
E. Substantive current good manufacturing requirements.
F. Accountability of the regulatory authority.
G. Inventory of current products and manufacturers.
H. System for maintaining or accessing inspection reports, samples and other analytical data, and other firm/product information relating to matters covered by subpart A of this part.

# II. Mechanisms in place to assure appropriate professional standards and avoidance of conflicts of interest.

# III. Administration of the regulatory authority:
A. Standards of education/qualification and training.
B. Effective quality assurance systems measures to ensure adequate job performance.
C. Appropriate staffing and resources to enforce laws and regulations.

# IV. Conduct of inspections:
A. Adequate preinspection preparation, including appropriate expertise of investigator/team, review of firm/product and databases, and availability of appropriate inspection equipment.
B. Adequate conduct of inspection, including statutory access to facilities, effective response to refusals, depth and competence of evaluation of operations, systems and documentation; collection of evidence; appropriate duration of inspection and completeness of written report of observations to firm management.
C. Adequate postinspection activities, including completeness of inspectors' report, inspection report review where appropriate, and conduct of followup inspections and other activities where appropriate, assurance of preservation and retrieval of records.

# V. Execution of regulatory enforcement actions to achieve corrections, designed to prevent future violations, and to remove products found in violation of requirements from the market.

# VI. Effective use of surveillance systems:
A. Sampling and analysis.
B. Recall monitoring.
C. Product defect reporting system.
D. Routine surveillance inspections.
E. Verification of approved manufacturing process changes to marketing authorizations/approved applications.

# VII. Additional specific criteria for preapproval inspections:
A. Satisfactory demonstration through a jointly developed and administered training program and joint inspections to assess the regulatory authorities' capabilities.
B. Preinspection preparation includes the review of appropriate records, including site plans and drug master file or similar documentation to enable adequate inspections.
C. Ability to verify chemistry, manufacturing, and control data supporting an application is authentic and complete.
D. Ability to assess and evaluate research and development data as scientifically sound, especially transfer technology of pilot, scale up and full scale production batches.
E. Ability to verify conformity of the onsite processes and procedures with those described in the application.
F. Review and evaluate equipment installation, operational and performance qualification data, and evaluate test method validation.
Pt. 26, Subpt. A, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 26—Elements To Be Considered in Developing a Two-Way Alert System

# 1. Documentation
—Definition of a crisis/emergency and under what circumstances an alert is required
—Standard Operating Procedures (SOP's)
—Mechanism of health hazards evaluation and classification
—Language of communication and transmission of information

# 2. Crisis Management System
—Crisis analysis and communication mechanisms
—Establishment of contact points
—Reporting mechanisms

# 3. Enforcement Procedures
—Followup mechanisms
—Corrective action procedures

# 4. Quality Assurance System
—Pharmacovigilance programme
—Surveillance/monitoring of implementation of corrective action

# 5. Contact Points
For the purpose of subpart A of this part, the contact points for the alert system will be:

# A. For the European Community:
the Executive Director of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, 7, Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, UK - London E14 4HB, England. Telephone 44-171-418 8400, Fax 418-8416.

# B. For the United States :
Biologics:Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002, telephone: 240-402-9153, FAX: 301-595-1302.
Human Drugs: Director, Office of Compliance, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002, phone: 301-796-3100, fax: 301-847-8747.
Veterinary Drugs: Director, Office of Surveillance and Compliance (HFV-200), MPN II, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855-2773, phone: 301-827-6644, fax: 301-594-1807.
[63 FR 60141, Nov. 6, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 48775, Aug. 11, 2004; 74 FR 13112, Mar. 26, 2009; 80 FR 18090, Apr. 3, 2015]

# Subpart B—Specific Sector Provisions for Medical Devices
§ 26.31
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to specify the conditions under which a party will accept the results of quality system-related evaluations and inspections and premarket evaluations of the other party with regard to medical devices as conducted by listed conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) and to provide for other related cooperative activities.
(b) This subpart is intended to evolve as programs and policies of the parties evolve. The parties will review this subpart periodically, in order to assess progress and identify potential enhancements to this subpart as Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Community (EC) policies evolve over time.
§ 26.32
Scope.
(a) The provisions of this subpart shall apply to the exchange and, where appropriate, endorsement of the following types of reports from conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) assessed to be equivalent:
(1) Under the U.S. system, surveillance/postmarket and initial/preapproval inspection reports;
(2) Under the U.S. system, premarket (510(k)) product evaluation reports;
(3) Under the European Community (EC) system, quality system evaluation reports; and
(4) Under the EC system, EC type examination and verification reports.
(b) Appendix A of this subpart names the legislation, regulations, and related procedures under which:
(1) Products are regulated as medical devices by each party;
(2) CAB's are designated and confirmed; and
(3) These reports are prepared.
(c) For purposes of this subpart, equivalence means that: CAB's in the EC are capable of conducting product and quality systems evaluations against U.S. regulatory requirements in a manner equivalent to those conducted by FDA; and CAB's in the United States are capable of conducting product and quality systems evaluations against EC regulatory requirements in a manner equivalent to those conducted by EC CAB's.
§ 26.33
Product coverage.
(a) There are three components to this subpart each covering a discrete range of products:
(1)
Quality System Evaluations.
U.S.-type surveillance/postmarket and initial/preapproval inspection reports and European Community (EC)-type quality system evaluation reports will be exchanged with regard to all products regulated under both U.S. and EC law as medical devices.
(2)
Product Evaluation.
U.S.-type premarket (510(k)) product evaluation reports and EC-type-testing reports will be exchanged only with regard to those products classified under the U.S. system as Class I/Class II-Tier 2 medical devices which are listed in appendix B of this subpart.
(3)
Postmarket Vigilance Reports.
Postmarket vigilance reports will be exchanged with regard to all products regulated under both U.S. and EC law as medical devices.
(b) Additional products and procedures may be made subject to this subpart by agreement of the parties.
§ 26.34
Regulatory authorities.
The regulatory authorities shall have the responsibility of implementing the provisions of this subpart, including the designation and monitoring of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's). Regulatory authorities will be specified in appendix C of this subpart. Each party will promptly notify the other party in writing of any change in the regulatory authority for a country.
§ 26.35
Length and purpose of transition period.
There will be a 3-year transition period immediately following the date described in § 26.80(a). During the transition period, the parties will engage in confidence-building activities for the purpose of obtaining sufficient evidence to make determinations concerning the equivalence of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) of the other party with respect to the ability to perform quality system and product evaluations or other reviews resulting
in reports to be exchanged under this subpart.
§ 26.36
Listing of CAB's.
Each party shall designate conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) to participate in confidence building activities by transmitting to the other party a list of CAB's which meet the criteria for technical competence and independence, as identified in appendix A of this subpart. The list shall be accompanied by supporting evidence. Designated CAB's will be listed in appendix D of this subpart for participation in the confidence building activities once confirmed by the importing party. Nonconfirmation would have to be justified based on documented evidence.
§ 26.37
Confidence building activities.
(a) At the beginning of the transitional period, the Joint Sectoral Group will establish a joint confidence building program calculated to provide sufficient evidence of the capabilities of the designated conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) to perform quality system or product evaluations to the specifications of the parties.
(b) The joint confidence building program should include the following actions and activities:
(1) Seminars designed to inform the parties and CAB's about each party's regulatory system, procedures, and requirements;
(2) Workshops designed to provide the parties with information regarding requirements and procedures for the designation and surveillance of CAB's;
(3) Exchange of information about reports prepared during the transition period;
(4) Joint training exercises; and
(5) Observed inspections.
(c) During the transition period, any significant problem that is identified with a CAB may be the subject of cooperative activities, as resources allow and as agreed to by the regulatory authorities, aimed at resolving the problem.
(d) Both parties will exercise good faith efforts to complete the confidence building activities as expeditiously as possible to the extent that the resources of the parties allow.
(e) Both the parties will each prepare annual progress reports which will describe the confidence building activities undertaken during each year of the transition period. The form and content of the reports will be determined by the parties through the Joint Sectoral Committee.
§ 26.38
Other transition period activities.
(a) During the transition period, the parties will jointly determine the necessary information which must be present in quality system and product evaluation reports.
(b) The parties will jointly develop a notification and alert system to be used in case of defects, recalls, and other problems concerning product quality that could necessitate additional actions (e.g., inspections by the parties of the importing country) or suspension of the distribution of the product.
§ 26.39
Equivalence assessment.
(a) In the final 6 months of the transition period, the parties shall proceed to a joint assessment of the equivalence of the conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) that participated in the confidence building activities. CAB's will be determined to be equivalent provided they have demonstrated proficiency through the submission of a sufficient number of adequate reports. CAB's may be determined to be equivalent with regard to the ability to perform any type of quality system or product evaluation covered by this subpart and with regard to any type of product covered by this subpart. The parties shall develop a list contained in appendix E of this subpart of CAB's determined to be equivalent, which shall contain a full explanation of the scope of the equivalency determination, including any appropriate limitations, with regard to performing any type of quality system or product evaluation.
(b) The parties shall allow CAB's not listed for participation in this subpart, or listed for participation only as to certain types of evaluations, to apply for participation in this subpart once the necessary measures have been taken or sufficient experience has been gained, in accordance with § 26.46.
(c) Decisions concerning the equivalence of CAB's must be agreed to by both parties.
§ 26.40
Start of the operational period.
(a) The operational period will start at the end of the transition period after the parties have developed the list of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) found to be equivalent. The provisions of §§ 26.40, 26.41, 26.42, 26.43, 26.44, 26.45, and 26.46 will apply only with regard to listed CAB's and only to the extent of any specifications and limitations contained on the list with regard to a CAB.
(b) The operational period will apply to quality system evaluation reports and product evaluation reports generated by CAB's listed in accordance with this subpart for the evaluations performed in the respective territories of the parties, except if the parties agree otherwise.
§ 26.41
Exchange and endorsement of quality system evaluation reports.
(a) Listed European Community (EC) conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) will provide FDA with reports of quality system evaluations, as follows:
(1) For preapproval quality system evaluations, EC CAB's will provide full reports; and
(2) For surveillance quality system evaluations, EC CAB's will provide abbreviated reports.
(b) Listed U.S. CAB's will provide to the EC Notified Body of the manufacturer's choice:
(1) Full reports of initial quality system evaluations;
(2) Abbreviated reports of quality systems surveillance audits.
(c) If the abbreviated reports do not provide sufficient information, the importing party may request additional clarification from the CAB.
(d) Based on the determination of equivalence in light of the experience gained, the quality system evaluation reports prepared by the CAB's listed as equivalent will normally be endorsed by the importing party, except under specific and delineated circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include indications of material inconsistencies or inadequacies in a report, quality defects identified in postmarket surveillance or other specific evidence of serious concern in relation to product quality or consumer safety. In such cases, the importing party may request clarification from the exporting party which may lead to a request for reinspection. The parties will endeavor to respond to requests for clarification in a timely manner. Where divergence is not clarified in this process, the importing party may carry out the quality system evaluation.
§ 26.42
Exchange and endorsement of product evaluation reports.
(a) European Community (EC) conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) listed for this purpose will, subject to the specifications and limitations on the list, provide to FDA 510(k) premarket notification assessment reports prepared to U.S. medical device requirements.
(b) U.S. CAB's will, subject to the specifications and limitations on the list, provide to the EC Notified Body of the manufacturer's choice, type examination, and verification reports prepared to EC medical device requirements.
(c) Based on the determination of equivalence in light of the experience gained, the product evaluation reports prepared by the CAB's listed as equivalent will normally be endorsed by the importing party, except under specific and delineated circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include indications of material inconsistencies, inadequacies, or incompleteness in a product evaluation report, or other specific evidence of serious concern in relation to product safety, performance, or quality. In such cases, the importing party may request clarification from the exporting party which may lead to a request for a reevaluation. The parties will endeavor to respond to requests for clarification in a timely manner. Endorsement remains the responsibility of the importing party.
§ 26.43
Transmission of quality system evaluation reports.
Quality system evaluation reports covered by § 26.41 concerning products covered by this subpart shall be transmitted to the importing party within
60-calendar days of a request by the importing party. Should a new inspection be requested, the time period shall be extended by an additional 30-calendar days. A party may request a new inspection, for cause, identified to the other party. If the exporting party cannot perform an inspection within a specified period of time, the importing party may perform an inspection on its own.
§ 26.44
Transmission of product evaluation reports.
Transmission of product evaluation reports will take place according to the importing party's specified procedures.
§ 26.45
Monitoring continued equivalence.
Monitoring activities will be carried out in accordance with § 26.69.
§ 26.46
Listing of additional CAB's.
(a) During the operational period, additional conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) will be considered for equivalence using the procedures and criteria described in §§ 26.36, 26.37, and 26.39, taking into account the level of confidence gained in the overall regulatory system of the other party.
(b) Once a designating authority considers that such CAB's, having undergone the procedures of §§ 26.36, 26.37, and 26.39, may be determined to be equivalent, it will then designate those bodies on an annual basis. Such procedures satisfy the procedures of § 26.66(a) and (b).
(c) Following such annual designations, the procedures for confirmation of CAB's under § 26.66(c) and (d) shall apply.
§ 26.47
Role and composition of the Joint Sectoral Committee.
(a) The Joint Sectoral Committee for this subpart is set up to monitor the activities under both the transitional and operational phases of this subpart.
(b) The Joint Sectoral Committee will be cochaired by a representative of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the United States and a representative of the European Community (EC) who will each have one vote. Decisions will be taken by unanimous consent.
(c) The Joint Sectoral Committee's functions will include:
(1) Making a joint assessment of the equivalence of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's);
(2) Developing and maintaining the list of equivalent CAB's, including any limitation in terms of their scope of activities and communicating the list to all authorities and the Joint Committee described in subpart C of this part;
(3) Providing a forum to discuss issues relating to this subpart, including concerns that a CAB may no longer be equivalent and opportunity to review product coverage; and
(4) Consideration of the issue of suspension.
§ 26.48
Harmonization.
During both the transitional and operational phases of this subpart, both parties intend to continue to participate in the activities of the Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF) and utilize the results of those activities to the extent possible. Such participation involves developing and reviewing documents developed by the GHTF and jointly determining whether they are applicable to the implementation of this subpart.
§ 26.49
Regulatory cooperation.
(a) The parties and authorities shall inform and consult with one another, as permitted by law, of proposals to introduce new controls or to change existing technical regulations or inspection procedures and to provide the opportunity to comment on such proposals.
(b) The parties shall notify each other in writing of any changes to appendix A of this subpart.
§ 26.50
Alert system and exchange of postmarket vigilance reports.
(a) An alert system will be set up during the transition period and maintained thereafter by which the parties will notify each other when there is an immediate danger to public health. Elements of such a system will be described in an appendix F of this subpart. As part of that system, each party shall notify the other party of
any confirmed problem reports, corrective actions, or recalls. These reports are regarded as part of ongoing investigations.
(b) Contact points will be agreed between both parties to permit authorities to be made aware with the appropriate speed in case of quality defect, batch recalls, counterfeiting and other problems concerning quality, which could necessitate additional controls or suspension of the distribution of the product.
Pt. 26, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 26—Relevant Legislation, Regulations, and Procedures.

# 1. For the European Community (EC) the following legislation applies to § 26.42(a) of this subpart:
[Copies of EC documents may be obtained from the European Document Research, 1100 17th St. NW., suite 301, Washington, DC 20036.]
a. Council Directive 90/385/EEC of 20 June 1990 on active implantable medical devices
OJ No. L 189, 20.7. 1990, p. 17. Conformity assessment procedures.
Annex 2 (with the exception of section 4)
Annex 4
Annex 5
b. Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 on Medical Devices OJ No. L 169,12.7.1993, p.1. Conformity assessment procedures.
Annex 2 (with the exception of section 4)
Annex 3
Annex 4
Annex 5
Annex 6

# 2. For the United States, the following legislation applies to § 26.32(a):
[Copies of FDA documents may be obtained from the Government Printing Office, 1510 H St. NW., Washington, DC 20005. FDA documents may be viewed on FDA's Internet web site at
http://www.fda.gov.
]
a. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 321
et seq.
b. The Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
c. Regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration found at 21 CFR, in particular, Parts 800 to 1299.
d. Medical Devices; Third Party Review of Selected Premarket Notifications; Pilot Program, 61 FR 14789-14796 (April 3, 1996).
e. Draft Guidance Document on Accredited Persons Program, 63 FR 28392 (May 22, 1998).
f. Draft Guidance for Staff, Industry and Third Parties, Third Party Programs under the Sectoral Annex on Medical Devices to the Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community (MRA), 63 FR 36240 (July 2, 1998).
g. Guidance Document on Use of Standards, 63 FR 9561 (February 25, 1998).
Pt. 26, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 26—Scope of Product Coverage

# 1. Initial Coverage of the Transition Period
Upon entry into force of this subpart as described in § 26.80 (it is understood that the date of entry into force will not occur prior to June 1, 1998, unless the parties decide otherwise), products qualifying for the transitional arrangements under this subpart include:
a. All Class I products requiring premarket evaluations in the United States—see Table 1.
b. Those Class II products listed in Table 2.

# 2. During the Transition Period
The parties will jointly identify additional product groups, including their related accessories, in line with their respective priorities as follows:
a. Those for which review may be based primarily on written guidance which the parties will use their best efforts to prepare expeditiously; and
b. Those for which review may be based primarily on international standards, in order for the parties to gain the requisite experience.
The corresponding additional product lists will be phased in on an annual basis. The parties may consult with industry and other interested parties in determining which products will be added.

# 3. Commencement of the Operational Period
a. At the commencement of the operational period, product coverage shall extend to all Class I/II products covered during the transition period.
b. FDA will expand the program to categories of Class II devices as is consistent with the results of the pilot, and with FDA's ability to write guidance documents if the device pilot for the third party review of medical devices is successful. The MRA will cover to the maximum extent feasible all Class II devices listed in Table 3 for which FDA-accredited third party review is available in the United States.

# 4. Unless explicitly included by joint decision of the parties, this part does not cover any U.S. Class II-tier 3 or any Class III product under either system.
[The lists of medical devices included in these tables are subject to change as a result of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997.]
Table 1—Class I Products Requiring Premarket Evaluations in the United States, Included in Scope of Product Coverage at Beginning of Transition Period
1
21 CFR Section No.
Regulation Name
Product Code—Device Name
Anesthesiology Panel (21 CFR part 868)
868.1910
Esophageal Stethoscope
BZW—Stethoscope, Esophageal
868.5620
Breathing Mouthpiece
BYP—Mouthpiece, Breathing
868.5640
Medicinal Nonventilatory Nebulizer (Atomizer)
CCQ—Nebulizer, Medicinal, Nonventilatory (Atomizer)
868.5675
Rebreathing Device
BYW—Device, Rebreathing
868.5700
Nonpowered Oxygen Tent
FOG—Hood, Oxygen, Infant
BYL—Tent, Oxygen
868.6810
Tracheobronchial Suction Catheter
BSY—Catheters, Suction, Tracheobronchial
Cardiovascular Panel
(None)
Dental Panel (21 CFR part 872)
872.3400
Karaya and Sodium Borate With or Without Acacia Denture Adhesive
KOM—Adhesive, Denture, Acacia and Karaya With Sodium Borate
872.3700
Dental Mercury (U.S.P.)
ELY—Mercury
872.4200
Dental Handpiece and Accessories
EBW—Controller, Food, Handpiece and Cord
EFB—Handpiece, Air-Powered, Dental
EFA—Handpiece, Belt and/or Gear Driven, Dental
EGS—Handpiece, Contra- and Right-Angle Attachment, Dental
EKX—Handpiece, Direct Drive, AC-Powered
EKY—Handpiece, Water-Powered
872.6640
Dental Operative Unit and Accessories
EIA—Unit, Operative Dental
Ear, Nose, and Throat Panel (21 CFR Part 874)
874.1070
Short Increment Sensitivity Index (SISI) Adapter
ETR—Adapter, Short Increment Sensitivity Index (SISI)
874.1500
Gustometer
ETM—Gustometer
874.1800
Air or Water Caloric Stimulator
KHH—Stimulator, Caloric-Air
ETP—Stimulator, Caloric-Water
874.1925
Toynbee Diagnostic Tube
ETK—Tube, Toynbee Diagnostic
874.3300
Hearing Aid
LRB—Face Plate Hearing-Aid
ESD—Hearing-aid, Air-Conduction
874.4100
Epistaxis Balloon
EMX—Balloon, Epistaxis
874.5300
ENT Examination and Treatment Unit
ETF—Unit, Examining/Treatment, ENT
874.5550
Powered Nasal Irrigator
KMA—Irrigator, Powered Nasal
874.5840
Antistammering Device
KTH—Device, Anti-Stammering
Gastroenterology—Urology Panel (21 CFR Part 876)
876.5160
Urological Clamp for Males
FHA—Clamp, Penile
876.5210
Enema Kit
FCE—Kit, Enema, (for Cleaning Purpose)
876.5250
Urine Collector and Accessories
FAQ—Bag, Urine Collection, Leg, for External Use
General Hospital Panel (21 CFR Part 880)
880.5270
Neonatal Eye Pad
FOK—Pad, Neonatal Eye
880.5420
Pressure Infusor for an I.V. Bag
KZD—Infusor, Pressure, for I.V. Bags
880.5680
Pediatric Position Holder
FRP—Holder, Infant Position
880.6250
Patient Examination Glove
LZB—Finger Cot
FMC—Glove, Patient Examination
LYY—Glove, Patient Examination, Latex
LZA—Glove, Patient Examination, Poly
LZC—Glove, Patient Examination, Speciality
LYZ—Glove, Patient Examination, Vinyl
880.6375
Patient Lubricant
KMJ—Lubricant, Patient
880.6760
Protective Restraint
BRT—Restraint, Patient, Conductive
FMQ—Restraint, Protective
Neurology Panel (21 CFR Part 882)
882.1030
Ataxiagraph
GWW—Ataxiagraph
882.1420
Electroencephalogram (EEG) Signal Spectrum Analyzer
GWS—Analyzer, Spectrum, Electroencephalogram Signal
882.4060
Ventricular Cannula
HCD—Cannula, Ventricular
882.4545
Shunt System Implantation Instrument
GYK—Instrument, Shunt System Implantation
882.4650
Neurosurgical Suture Needle
HAS—Needle, Neurosurgical Suture
882.4750
Skull Punch
GXJ—Punch, Skull
Obstetrics and Gynecology Panel
(None)
Ophthalmology Panel (21 CFR Part 886)
886.1780
Retinoscope
HKM—Retinoscope, Battery-Powered
886.1940
Tonometer Sterilizer
HKZ—Sterilizer, Tonometer
886.4070
Powered Corneal Burr
HQS—Burr, Corneal, AC-Powered
HOG—Burr, Corneal, Battery-Powered
HRG—Engine, Trephine, Accessories, AC-Powered
HFR—Engine, Trephine, Accessories, Battery-Powered
HLD—Engine, Trephine, Accessories, Gas-Powered
886.4370
Keratome
HNO—Keratome, AC-Powered
HMY—Keratome, Battery-Powered
886.5850
Sunglasses (Nonprescription)
HQY—Sunglasses (Nonprescription Including Photosensitive)
Orthopedic Panel (21 CFR Part 888)
888.1500
Goniometer
KQX—Goniometer, AC-Powered
888.4150
Calipers for Clinical Use
KTZ—Caliper
Physical Medicine Panel (21 CFR Part 890)
890.3850
Mechanical Wheelchair
LBE—Stroller, Adaptive
IOR—Wheelchair, Mechanical
890.5180
Manual Patient Rotation Bed
INY—Bed, Patient Rotation, Manual
890.5710
Hot or Cold Disposable Pack
IMD—Pack, Hot or Cold, Disposable
Radiology Panel (21 CFR Part 892)
892.1100
Scintillation (Gamma) Camera
IYX—Camera, Scintillation (Gamma)
892.1110
Positron Camera
IZC—Camera, Positron
892.1300
Nuclear Rectilinear Scanner
IYW—Scanner, Rectilinear, Nuclear
892.1320
Nuclear Uptake Probe
IZD—Probe, Uptake, Nuclear
892.1330
Nuclear Whole Body Scanner
JAM—Scanner, Whole Body, Nuclear
892.1410
Nuclear Electrocardiograph Synchronizer
IVY—Synchronizer, Electrocardiograph, Nuclear
892.1890
Radiographic Film Illuminator
IXC—Illuminator, Radiographic-Film
JAG—Illuminator, Radiographic-Film, Explosion-Proof
892.1910
Radiographic Grid
IXJ—Grid, Radiographic
892.1960
Radiographic Intensifying Screen
EAM—Screen, Intensifying, Radiographic
892.1970
Radiographic ECG/Respirator Synchronizer
IXO—Synchronizer, ECG/Respirator, Radiographic
892.5650
Manual Radionuclide Applicator System
IWG—System, Applicator, Radionuclide, Manual
General and Plastic Surgery Panel (21 CFR Part 878)
878.4200
Introduction/Drainage Catheter and Accessories
KGZ—Accessories, Catheter
GCE—Adaptor, Catheter
FGY—Cannula, Injection
GBA—Catheter, Balloon Type
GBZ—Catheter, Cholangiography
GBQ—Catheter, Continuous Irrigation
GBY—Catheter, Eustachian, General
Plastic Surgery
JCY—Catheter, Infusion
GBX—Catheter, Irrigation
GBP—Catheter, Multiple Lumen
GBO—Catheter, Nephrostomy, General
Plastic Surgery
GBN—Catheter, Pediatric, General
Plastic Surgery
GBW—Catheter, Peritoneal
GBS—Catheter, Ventricular, General
Plastic Surgery
GCD—Connector, Catheter
GCC—Dilator, Catheter
GCB—Needle, Catheter
878.4320
Removable Skin Clip
FZQ—Clip, Removable (Skin)
878.4460
Surgeon's Gloves
KGO—Surgeon's Gloves
878.4680
Nonpowered, Single Patient, Portable Suction Apparatus
GCY—Apparatus, Suction, Single Patient Use, Portable, Nonpowered
878.4760
Removable Skin Staple
GDT—Staple, Removable (Skin)
878.4820
AC-Powered, Battery-Powered, and Pneumatically Powered Surgical Instrument Motors and Accessories/Attachments
GFG—Bit, Surgical
GFA—Blade, Saw, General
Plastic Surgery
DWH—Blade, Saw, Surgical, Cardiovascular
BRZ—Board, Arm (With Cover)
GFE—Brush, Dermabrasion
GFF—Bur, Surgical, General
Plastic Surgery
KDG—Chisel (Osteotome)
GFD—Dermatome
GFC—Driver, Surgical, Pin
GFB—Head, Surgical, Hammer
GEY—Motor, Surgical Instrument, AC-Powered
GET—Motor, Surgical Instrument, Pneumatic Powered
DWI—Saw, Electrically Powered
KFK—Saw, Pneumatically Powered
HAB—Saw, Powered, and Accessories
878.4960
Air or AC-Powered Operating Table and Air or AC-Powered Operating Chair
Accessories
GBB—Chair, Surgical, AC-Powered
FQO—Table, Operating-Room, AC-Powered
GDC—Table, Operating-Room, Electrical
FWW—Table, Operating-Room, Pneumatic
JEA—Table, Surgical with Orthopedic Accessories, AC-Powered
880.5090
Liquid Bandage
KMF—Bandage, Liquid
1
Descriptive information on product codes, panel codes, and other medical device identifiers may be viewed on FDA's Internet Web Site at
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/prodcode.html.
Table 2—Class II Medical Devices Included in Scope of Product Coverage at Beginning of Transition Period (United States to develop guidance documents identifying U.S. requirements and European Community (EC) to identify standards needed to meet EC requirements)
1
Panel
21 CFR Section No.
Regulation Name
Product Code—Device Name
RA
892.1000
Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
MOS—COIL, Magnetic Resonance, Specialty
LNH—System, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imaging
LNI—System, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic
Diagnostic Ultrasound:
RA
892.1540
Nonfetal Ultrasonic Monitor
JAF—Monitor, Ultrasonic, Nonfetal
RA
892.1550
Ultrasonic Pulsed Doppler Imaging System
IYN—System, Imaging, Pulsed Doppler, Ultrasonic
RA
892.1560
Ultrasonic Pulsed Echo Imaging System
IYO—System, Imaging, Pulsed Echo, Ultrasonic
RA
892.1570
Diagnostic Ultrasonic Transducer
ITX—Transducer, Ultrasonic, Diagnostic
Diagnostic X-Ray Imaging Devices (except mammographic x-ray systems):
RA
892.1600
Angiographic X-Ray System
IZI—System, X-Ray, Angiographic
RA
892.1650
Image-Intensified Fluoroscopic X-Ray System
MQB—Solid State X-Ray Imager (Flat Panel/Digital Imager)
JAA—System, X-Ray, Fluoroscopic, Image-Intensified
RA
892.1680
Stationary X-Ray System
KPR—System, X-Ray, Stationary
RA
892.1720
Mobile X-Ray System
IZL—System, X-Ray, Mobile
RA
892.1740
Tomographic X-Ray System
IZF—System, X-Ray, Tomographic
RA
892.1750
Computed Tomography X-Ray System
JAK—System, X-Ray, Tomography, Computed
ECG-Related Devices:
CV
870.2340
Electrocardiograph
DPS—Electrocardiograph
MLC—Monitor, ST Segment
CV
870.2350
Electrocardiograph Lead Switching Adaptor
DRW—Adaptor, Lead Switching, Electrocardiograph
CV
870.2360
Electrocardiograph Electrode
DRX—Electrode, Electrocardiograph
CV
870.2370
Electrocardiograph Surface Electrode Tester
KRC—Tester, Electrode, Surface, Electrocardiographic
NE
882.1400
Electroencephalograph
GWQ—Electroencephalograph
HO
880.5725
Infusion Pump (external only)
MRZ—Accessories, Pump, Infusion
FRN—Pump, Infusion
LZF—Pump, Infusion, Analytical Sampling
MEB—Pump, Infusion, Elastomeric
LZH—Pump, Infusion, Enteral
MHD—Pump, Infusion, Gallstone Dissolution
LZG—Pump, Infusion, Insulin
MEA—Pump, Infusion, PCA
Ophthalmic Instruments:
OP
886.1570
Ophthalmoscope
HLI—Ophthalmoscope, AC-Powered
HLJ—Ophthalmoscope, Battery-Powered
OP
886.1780
Retinoscope
HKL—Retinoscope, AC-Powered
OP
886.1850
AC-Powered Slit-Lamp Biomicroscope
HJO—Biomicroscope, Slit-Lamp, AC-Powered
OP
886.4150
Vitreous Aspiration and Cutting Instrument
MMC—Dilator, Expansive Iris (Accessory)
HQE—Instrument, Vitreous Aspiration and Cutting, AC-Powered
HKP—Instrument, Vitreous Aspiration and Cutting, Battery-Powered
MLZ—Vitrectomy, Instrument Cutter
OP
886.4670
Phacofragmentation System
HQC—Unit, Phacofragmentation
SU
878.4580
Surgical Lamp
HBI—Illuminator, Fiberoptic, Surgical Field
FTF—Illuminator, Nonremote
FTG—Illuminator, Remote
HJE—Lamp, Fluorescein, AC-Powered
FQP—Lamp, Operating-Room
FTD—Lamp, Surgical
GBC—Lamp, Surgical, Incandescent
FTA—Light, Surgical, Accessories
FSZ—Light, Surgical, Carrier
FSY—Light, Surgical, Ceiling Mounted
FSX—Light, Surgical, Connector
FSW—Light, Surgical, Endoscopic
FST—Light, Surgical, Fiberoptic
FSS—Light, Surgical, Floor Standing
FSQ—Light, Surgical, Instrument
NE
882.5890
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulator for Pain Relief
GZJ—Stimulator, Nerve, Transcutaneous, For Pain Relief
Noninvasive Blood Pressure Measurement Devices:
CV
870.1120
Blood Pressure Cuff
DXQ—Cuff, Blood-Pressure
CV
870.1130
Noninvasive Blood Pressure Measurement System (except nonoscillometric)
DXN—System, Measurement, Blood-Pressure, Noninvasive
HO
880.6880
Steam Sterilizer (greater than 2 cubic feet)
FLE—Sterilizer, Steam
Clinical Thermometers:
HO
880.2910
Clinical Electronic Thermometer (except tympanic or pacifier)
FLL—Thermometer, Electronic, Clinical
AN
868.5630
Nebulizer
CAF—Nebulizer (Direct Patient Interface)
Hypodermic Needles and Syringes (except antistick and self-destruct):
HO
880.5570
Hypodermic Single Lumen Needle
MMK—Container, Sharpes
FMI—Needle, Hypodermic, Single Lumen
MHC—Port, Intraosseous, Implanted
HO
880.5860
Piston Syringe
FMF—Syringe, Piston
Selected Dental Materials:
DE
872.3060
Gold-Based Alloys and Precious Metal Alloys for Clinical Use
EJT—Alloy, Gold Based, For Clinical Use
EJS—Alloy, Precious Metal, For Clinical Use
DE
872.3200
Resin Tooth Bonding Agent
KLE—Agent, Tooth Bonding, Resin
DE
872.3275
Dental Cement
EMA—Cement, Dental
EMB—Zinc Oxide Eugenol
DE
872.3660
Impression Material
ELW—Material, Impression
DE
872.3690
Tooth Shade Resin Material
EBF—Material, Tooth Shade, Resin
DE
872.3710
Base Metal Alloy
EJH—Metal, Base
Latex Condoms:
OB
884.5300
Condom
HIS—Condom
1
Descriptive information on product codes, panel codes, and other medical device identifiers may be viewed on FDA's Internet Web Site at
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/prodcode.html.
Table 3—Medical Devices for Possible Inclusion in Scope of Product Coverage During Operational Period
1
Product Family
21 CFR Section No
Device Name
Tier
Anesthesiology Panel
Anesthesia Devices
868.5160
Gas machine for anesthesia or analgesia
2
868.5270
Breathing system heater
2
868.5440
Portable oxygen generator
2
868.5450
Respiratory gas humidifier
2
868.5630
Nebulizer
2
868.5710
Electrically powered oxygen tent
2
868.5880
Anesthetic vaporizer
2
Gas Analyser
868.1040
Powered Algesimeter
2
868.1075
Argon gas analyzer
2
868.1400
Carbon dioxide gas analyzer
2
868.1430
Carbon monoxide gas analyzer
2
868.1500
Enflurane gas analyzer
2
868.1620
Halothane gas analyzer
2
868.1640
Helium gas analyzer
2
868.1670
Neon gas analyzer
2
868.1690
Nitrogen gas analyzer
2
868.1700
Nitrous oxide gas analyzer
2
868.1720
Oxygen gas analyzer
2
868.1730
Oxygen uptake computer
2
Peripheral Nerve Stimulators
868.2775
Electrical peripheral nerve stimulator
2
Respiratory Monitoring
868.1750
Pressure plethysmograph
2
868.1760
Volume plethysmograph
2
868.1780
Inspiratory airway pressure meter
2
868.1800
Rhinoanemometer
2
868.1840
Diagnostic spirometer
2
868.1850
Monitoring spirometer
2
868.1860
Peak-flow meter for spirometry
2
868.1880
Pulmonary-function data calculator
2
868.1890
Predictive pulmonary-function value calculator
2
868.1900
Diagnostic pulmonary-function interpretation calculator
2
868.2025
Ultrasonic air embolism monitor
2
868.2375
Breathing frequency monitor (except apnea detectors)
2
868.2480
Cutaneous carbon dioxide (PcCO
2
) monitor
2
868.2500
Cutaneous oxygen monitor (for an infant not under gas anesthesia)
2
868.2550
Pneumotachomometer
2
868.2600
Airway pressure monitor
2
868.5665
Powered percussor
2
868.5690
Incentive spirometer
2
Ventilator
868.5905
Noncontinuous ventilator (IPPB)
2
868.5925
Powered emergency ventilator
2
868.5935
External negative pressure ventilator
2
868.5895
Continuous ventilator
2
868.5955
Intermittent mandatory ventilation attachment
2
868.6250
Portable air compressor
2
Cardiovascular Panel
Cardiovascular Diagnostic
870.1425
Programmable diagnostic computer
2
870.1450
Densitometer
2
870.2310
Apex cardiograph (vibrocardiograph)
2
870.2320
Ballistocardiograph
2
870.2340
Electrocardiograph
2
870.2350
Electrocardiograph lead switching adaptor
1
870.2360
Electrocardiograph electrode
2
870.2370
Electrocardiograph surface electrode tester
2
870.2400
Vectorcardiograph
1
870.2450
Medical cathode-ray tube display
1
870.2675
Oscillometer
2
870.2840
Apex cardiographic transducer
2
870.2860
Heart sound transducer
2
Cardiovascular Monitoring
Valve, pressure relief, cardiopulmonary bypass
870.1100
Blood pressure alarm
2
870.1110
Blood pressure computer
2
870.1120
Blood pressure cuff
2
870.1130
Noninvasive blood pressure measurement system
2
870.1140
Venous blood pressure manometer
2
870.1220
Electrode recording catheter or electrode recording probe
2
870.1270
Intracavitary phonocatheter system
2
870.1875
Stethoscope (electronic)
2
870.2050
Biopotential amplifier and signal conditioner
2
870.2060
Transducer signal amplifier and conditioner
2
870.2100
Cardiovascular blood flow-meter
2
870.2120
Extravascular blood flow probe
2
870.2300
Cardiac monitor (including cardiotachometer and rate alarm)
2
870.2700
Oximeter
2
870.2710
Ear oximeter
2
870.2750
Impedance phlebograph
2
870.2770
Impedance plethysmograph
2
870.2780
Hydraulic, pneumatic, or photoelectric plethysmographs
2
870.2850
Extravascular blood pressure transducer
2
870.2870
Catheter tip pressure transducer
2
870.2880
Ultrasonic transducer
2
870.2890
Vessel occlusion transducer
2
870.2900
Patient transducer and electrode cable (including connector)
2
870.2910
Radiofrequency physiological signal transmitter and receiver
2
870.2920
Telephone electrocardiograph transmitter and receiver
2
870.4205
Cardiopulmonary bypass bubble detector
2
870.4220
Cardiopulmonary bypass heart-lung machine console
2
870.4240
Cardiovascular bypass heat exchanger
2
870.4250
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature controller
2
870.4300
Cardiopulmonary bypass gas control unit
2
870.4310
Cardiopulmonary bypass coronary pressure gauge
2
870.4330
Cardiopulmonary bypass on-line blood gas monitor
2
870.4340
Cardiopulmonary bypass level sensing monitor and/or control
2
870.4370
Roller-type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pump
2
870.4380
Cardiopulmonary bypass pump speed control
2
870.4410
Cardiopulmonary bypass in-line blood gas sensor
2
Cardiovascular Therapeutic
870.5050
Patient care suction apparatus
2
870.5900
Thermal regulation system
2
Defibrillator
870.5300
DC-defibrillator (including paddles)
2
870.5325
Defibrillator tester
2
Echocardiograph
870.2330
Echocardiograph
2
Pacemaker
Accessories
870.1750
External programmable pacemaker pulse generator
2
870.3630
Pacemaker generator function analyzer
2
870.3640
Indirect pacemaker generator function analyzer
2
870.3720
Pacemaker electrode function tester
2
Miscellaneous
870.1800
Withdrawal-infusion pump
2
870.2800
Medical magnetic tape recorder
2
None
Batteries, rechargeable, class II devices
Dental Panel
Dental Equipment
872.1720
Pulp tester
2
872.1740
Caries detection device
2
872.4120
Bone cutting instrument and accessories
2
872.4465
Gas-powered jet injector
2
872.4475
Spring-powered jet injector
2
872.4600
Intraoral ligature and wire lock
2
872.4840
Rotary scaler
2
872.4850
Ultrasonic scaler
2
872.4920
Dental electrosurgical unit and accessories
2
872.6070
Ultraviolet activator for polymerization
2
872.6350
Ultraviolet detector
2
Dental Material
872.3050
Amalgam alloy
2
872.3060
Gold-based alloys and precious metal alloys for clinical use
2
872.3200
Resin tooth bonding agent
2
872.3250
Calcium hydroxide cavity liner
2
872.3260
Cavity varnish
2
872.3275
Dental cement (other than zinc oxide-eugenol)
2
872.3300
Hydrophilic resin coating for dentures
2
872.3310
Coating material for resin fillings
2
872.3590
Preformed plastic denture tooth
2
872.3660
Impression material
2
872.3690
Tooth shade resin material
2
872.3710
Base metal alloy
2
872.3750
Bracket adhesive resin and tooth conditioner
2
872.3760
Denture relining, repairing, or rebasing resin
2
872.3765
Pit and fissure sealant and conditioner
2
872.3770
Temporary crown and bridge resin
2
872.3820
Root canal filling resin (other than chloroform use)
2
872.3920
Porcelain tooth
2
Dental X-ray
872.1800
Extraoral source x-ray system
2
872.1810
Intraoral source x-ray system
2
Dental Implants
872.4880
Intraosseous fixation screw or wire
2
872.3890
Endodontic stabilizing splint
2
Orthodontic
872.5470
Orthodontic plastic bracket
2
Ear/Nose/Throat Panel
Diagnostic Equipment
874.1050
Audiometer
2
874.1090
Auditory impedance tester
2
874.1120
Electronic noise generator for audiometric testing
2
874.1325
Electroglottograph
2
874.1820
Surgical nerve stimulator/locator
2
Hearing Aids
874.3300
Hearing aid (for bone-conduction)
2
874.3310
Hearing aid calibrator and analysis system
2
874.3320
Group hearing aid or group auditory trainer
2
874.3330
Master hearing aid
2
Surgical Equipment
874.4250
Ear, nose, and throat electric or pneumatic surgical drill
1
874.4490
Argon laser for otology, rhinology, and laryngology
2
874.4500
Ear, nose, and throat microsurgical carbon dioxide laser
2
Gastroenterology/Urology Panel
Endoscope (including angioscopes, laparscopes, ophthalmic endoscopes)
876.1500
Endoscope and accessories
2
876.4300
Endoscopic electrosurgical unit and accessories
2
Gastroenterology
876.1725
Gastrointestinal motility monitoring system
1
Hemodialysis
876.5600
Sorbent regenerated dialysate delivery system for hemodialysis
2
876.5630
Peritoneal dialysis system and accessories
2
876.5665
Water purification system for hemodialysis
2
876.5820
Hemodialysis system and accessories
2
876.5830
Hemodialyzer with disposable insert (kiil-type)
2
Lithotriptor
876.4500
Mechanical lithotriptor
2
Urology Equipment
876.1620
Urodynamics measurement system
2
876.5320
Nonimplanted electrical continence device
2
876.5880
Isolated kidney perfusion and transport system and accessories
2
General Hospital Panel
Infusion Pumps and Systems
880.2420
Electronic monitor for gravity flow infusion systems
2
880.2460
Electrically powered spinal fluid pressure monitor
2
880.5430
Nonelectrically powered fluid injector
2
880.5725
Infusion pump
2
Neonatal Incubators
880.5400
Neonatal incubator
2
880.5410
Neonatal transport incubator
2
880.5700
Neonatal phototherapy unit
2
Piston Syringes
880.5570
Hypodermic single lumen needle
1
880.5860
Piston syringe (except antistick)
1
880.6920
Syringe needle introducer
2
Miscellaneous
880.2910
Clinical electronic thermometer
2
880.2920
Clinical mercury thermometer
2
880.5100
AC-powered adjustable hospital bed
1
880.5500
AC-powered patient lift
2
880.6880
Steam sterilizer (greater than 2 cubic feet)
2
Neurology Panel
882.1020
Rigidity analyzer
2
882.1610
Alpha monitor
2
Neuro-Diagnostic
882.1320
Cutaneous electrode
2
882.1340
Nasopharyngeal electrode
2
882.1350
Needle electrode
2
882.1400
Electroencephalograph
2
882.1460
Nystagmograph
2
882.1480
Neurological endoscope
2
882.1540
Galvanic skin response measurement device
2
882.1550
Nerve conduction velocity measurement device
2
882.1560
Skin potential measurement device
2
882.1570
Powered direct-contact temperature measurement device
2
882.1620
Intracranial pressure monitoring device
2
882.1835
Physiological signal amplifier
2
882.1845
Physiological signal conditioner
2
882.1855
Electroencephalogram (EEG) telemetry system
2
882.5050
Biofeedback device
2
Echoencephalography
882.1240
Echoencephalograph
2
RPG
882.4400
Radiofrequency lesion generator
2
Neuro Surgery
none
Electrode, spinal epidural
2
882.4305
Powered compound cranial drills, burrs, trephines, and their accessories
2
882.4310
Powered simple cranial drills burrs, trephines, and their accessories
2
882.4360
Electric cranial drill motor
2
882.4370
Pneumatic cranial drill motor
2
882.4560
Stereotaxic instrument
2
882.4725
Radiofrequency lesion probe
2
882.4845
Powered rongeur
2
882.5500
Lesion temperature monitor
2
Stimulators
882.1870
Evoked response electrical stimulator
2
882.1880
Evoked response mechanical stimulator
2
882.1890
Evoked response photic stimulator
2
882.1900
Evoked response auditory stimulator
2
882.1950
Tremor transducer
2
882.5890
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator for pain relief
2
Obstetrics/Gynecology Panel
Fetal Monitoring
884.1660
Transcervical endoscope (amnioscope) and accessories
2
884.1690
Hysteroscope and accessories (for performance standards)
2
884.2225
Obstetric-gynecologic ultrasonic imager
2
884.2600
Fetal cardiac monitor
2
884.2640
Fetal phonocardiographic monitor and accessories
2
884.2660
Fetal ultrasonic monitor and accessories
2
884.2675
Fetal scalp circular (spiral) electrode and applicator
1
884.2700
Intrauterine pressure monitor and accessories
2
884.2720
External uterine contraction monitor and accessories
2
884.2740
Perinatal monitoring system and accessories
2
884.2960
Obstetric ultrasonic transducer and accessories
2
Gynecological Surgery Equipment
884.1720
Gynecologic laparoscope and accessories
2
884.4160
Unipolar endoscopic coagulator-cutter and accessories
2
884.4550
Gynecologic surgical laser
2
884.4120
Gynecologic electrocautery and accessories
2
884.5300
Condom
2
Ophthalmic Implants
886.3320
Eye sphere implant
2
Contact Lens
886.1385
Polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) diagnostic contact lens
2
886.5916
Rigid gas permeable contact lens (daily wear only)
2
Diagnostic Equipment
886.1120
Opthalmic camera
1
886.1220
Corneal electrode
1
886.1250
Euthyscope (AC-powered)
1
886.1360
Visual field laser instrument
1
886.1510
Eye movement monitor
1
886.1570
Ophthalmoscope
1
886.1630
AC-powered photostimulator
1
886.1640
Ophthalmic preamplifier
1
886.1670
Ophthalmic isotope uptake probe
2
886.1780
Retinoscope (AC-powered device)
1
886.1850
AC-powered slit lamp biomicroscope
1
886.1930
Tonometer and accessories
2
886.1945
Transilluminator (AC-powered device)
1
886.3130
Ophthalmic conformer
2
(Diagnostic/Surgery Equipment)
886.4670
Phacofragmentation system
2
Ophthalmic Implants
886.3340
Extraocular orbital implant
2
886.3800
Scleral shell
2
Surgical Equipment
880.5725
Infusion pump (performance standards)
2
886.3100
Ophthalmic tantalum clip
2
886.3300
Absorbable implant (scleral buckling method)
2
886.4100
Radiofrequency electrosurgical cautery apparatus
2
886.4115
Thermal cautery unit
2
886.4150
Vitreous aspiration and cutting instrument
2
886.4170
Cryophthalmic unit
2
886.4250
Ophthalmic electrolysis unit (AC-powered device)
1
886.4335
Operating headlamp (AC-powered device)
1
886.4390
Ophthalmic laser
2
886.4392
Nd:YAG laser for posterior capsulotomy
2
886.4400
Electronic metal locator
1
886.4440
AC-powered magnet
1
886.4610
Ocular pressure applicator
2
886.4690
Ophthalmic photocoagulator
2
886.4790
Ophthalmic sponge
2
886.5100
Ophthalmic beta radiation source
2
none
Ophthalmoscopes, replacement batteries, hand-held
1
Orthopedic Panel
Implants
888.3010
Bone fixation cerclage
2
888.3020
Intramedullary fixation rod
2
888.3030
Single/multiple component metallic bone fixation appliances and accessories
2
888.3040
Smooth or threaded metallic bone fixation fastener
2
888.3050
Spinal interlaminal fixation orthosis
2
888.3060
Spinal intervertebral body fixation orthosis
2
Surgical Equipment
888.1240
AC-powered dynamometer
2
888.4580
Sonic surgical instrument and accessories/attachments
2
none
Accessories, fixation, spinal interlaminal
2
none
Accessories, fixation, spinal intervertebral body
2
none
Monitor, pressure, intracompartmental
1
none
Orthosis, fixation, spinal intervertebral fusion
2
none
Orthosis, spinal pedicle fixation
none
System, cement removal extraction
1
Physical Medicine Panel
Diagnostic Equipment or (Therapy) Therapeutic Equipment
890.1225
Chronaximeter
2
890.1375
Diagnostic electromyograph
2
890.1385
Diagnostic electromyograph needle electrode
2
890.1450
Powered reflex hammer
2
890.1850
Diagnostic muscle stimulator
2
or (Therapy)
890.5850
Powered muscle stimulator
2
Therapeutic Equipment
890.5100
Immersion hydrobath
2
890.5110
Paraffin bath
2
890.5500
Infrared lamp
2
890.5720
Water circulating hot or cold pack
2
890.5740
Powered heating pad
2
Radiology Panel
MRI
892.1000
Magnetic resonance diagnostic device
2
Ultrasound Diagnostic
884.2660
Fetal ultrasonic monitor and accessories
2
892.1540
Nonfetal ultrasonic monitor
892.1560
Ultrasonic pulsed echo imaging system
2
892.1570
Diagnostic ultrasonic transducer
2
892.1550
Ultrasonic pulsed doppler imaging system
Angiographic
892.1600
Angiographic x-ray system
2
Diagnostic X-Ray
892.1610
Diagnostic x-ray beam-limiting device
2
892.1620
Cine or spot fluorographic x-ray camera
2
892.1630
Electrostatic x-ray imaging system
2
892.1650
Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
2
892.1670
Spot film device
2
892.1680
Stationary x-ray system
2
892.1710
Mammographic x-ray system
2
892.1720
Mobile x-ray system
2
892.1740
Tomographic x-ray system
1
892.1820
Pneumoencephalographic chair
2
892.1850
Radiographic film cassette
1
892.1860
Radiographic film/cassette changer
1
892.1870
Radiographic film/cassette changer programmer
2
892.1900
Automatic radiographic film processor
2
892.1980
Radiologic table
1
CT Scanner
892.1750
Computed tomography x-ray system
2
Radiation Therapy
892.5050
Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
2
892.5300
Medical neutron radiation therapy system
2
892.5700
Remote controlled radionuclide applicator system
2
892.5710
Radiation therapy beam-shaping block
2
892.5730
Radionuclide brachytherapy source
2
892.5750
Radionuclide radiation therapy system
2
892.5770
Powered radiation therapy patient support assembly
2
892.5840
Radiation therapy simulation system
2
892.5930
Therapeutic x-ray tube housing assembly
1
Nuclear Medicine
892.1170
Bone densitometer
2
892.1200
Emission computed tomography system
2
892.1310
Nuclear tomography system
1
892.1390
Radionuclide rebreathing system
2
General/Plastic Surgery Panel
Surgical Lamps
878.4630
Ultraviolet lamp for dermatologic disorders
2
890.5500
Infrared lamp
2
878.4580
Surgical lamp
2
Electrosurgical Cutting Equipment
878.4810
Laser surgical instrument for use in general and plastic surgery and in dermatology
2
878.4400
Electrosurgical cutting and coagulation device and accessories
2
Miscellaneous
878.4780
Powered suction pump
2
1
Descriptive information on product codes, panel codes, and other medical device identifiers may be viewed on FDA's Internet Web Site at
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/prodcode.html.
[63 FR 60141, Nov. 6, 1998; 64 FR 16348, Apr. 5, 1999]
Appendixes C-F to Subpart B of Part 26 [Reserved]

# Subpart C—“Framework” Provisions
§ 26.60
Definitions.
(a) The following terms and definitions shall apply to this subpart only:
(1)
Designating Authority
means a body with power to designate, monitor, suspend, remove suspension of, or withdraw conformity assessment bodies as specified under this part.
(2)
Designation
means the identification by a designating authority of a conformity assessment body to perform conformity assessment procedures under this part.
(3)
Regulatory Authority
means a government agency or entity that exercises a legal right to control the use or sale of products within a party's jurisdiction and may take enforcement action to ensure that products marketed within its jurisdiction comply with legal requirements.
(b) Other terms concerning conformity assessment used in this part shall have the meaning given elsewhere in this part or in the definitions contained in “Guide 2: Standardization and Related Activities—General Vocabulary of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)” (ISO/IEC Guide 2) (1996 edition), which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the International Organization for Standardization, 1, rue de Varembé, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Genève 20, Switzerland, or on the Internet at
http://www.iso.ch
or may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Medical Library, 5600 Fishers Lane, rm. 11B-40, Rockville, MD 20857, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In the event of an inconsistency between the ISO/IEC Guide 2 and definitions in this part, the definitions in this part shall prevail.
§ 26.61
Purpose of this part.
This part specifies the conditions by which each party will accept or recognize results of conformity assessment procedures, produced by the other party's conformity assessment bodies
(CAB's) or authorities, in assessing conformity to the importing party's requirements, as specified on a sector-specific basis in subparts A and B of this part, and to provide for other related cooperative activities. The objective of such mutual recognition is to provide effective market access throughout the territories of the parties with regard to conformity assessment for all products covered under this part. If any obstacles to such access arise, consultations will promptly be held. In the absence of a satisfactory outcome of such consultations, the party alleging its market access has been denied may, within 90 days of such consultation, invoke its right to terminate the “Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community,” from which this part is derived, in accordance with § 26.80.
§ 26.62
General obligations.
(a) The United States shall, as specified in subparts A and B of this part, accept or recognize results of specified procedures, used in assessing conformity to specified legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions of the United States, produced by the other party's conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) and/or authorities.
(b) The European Community (EC) and its Member States shall, as specified in subparts A and B of this part, accept or recognize results of specified procedures, used in assessing conformity to specified legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions of the EC and its Member States, produced by the other party's CAB's and/or authorities.
(c) Where sectoral transition arrangements have been specified in subparts A and B of this part, the obligations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will apply following the successful completion of those sectoral transition arrangements, with the understanding that the conformity assessment procedures utilized assure conformity to the satisfaction of the receiving party, with applicable legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions of that party, equivalent to the assurance offered by the receiving party's own procedures.
§ 26.63
General coverage of this part.
(a) This part applies to conformity assessment procedures for products and/or processes and to other related cooperative activities as described in this part.
(b) Subparts A and B of this part may include:
(1) A description of the relevant legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions pertaining to the conformity assessment procedures and technical regulations;
(2) A statement on the product scope and coverage;
(3) A list of designating authorities;
(4) A list of agreed conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) or authorities or a source from which to obtain a list of such bodies or authorities and a statement of the scope of the conformity assessment procedures for which each has been agreed;
(5) The procedures and criteria for designating the CAB's;
(6) A description of the mutual recognition obligations;
(7) A sectoral transition arrangement;
(8) The identity of a sectoral contact point in each party's territory; and
(9) A statement regarding the establishment of a Joint Sectoral Committee.
(c) This part shall not be construed to entail mutual acceptance of standards or technical regulations of the parties and, unless otherwise specified in subpart A or B of this part, shall not entail the mutual recognition of the equivalence of standards or technical regulations.
§ 26.64
Transitional arrangements.
The parties agree to implement the transitional commitments on confidence building as specified in subparts A and B of this part.
(a) The parties agree that each sectoral transitional arrangement shall specify a time period for completion.
(b) The parties may amend any transitional arrangement by mutual agreement.
(c) Passage from the transitional phase to the operational phase shall proceed as specified in subparts A and B of this part, unless either party documents that the conditions provided in
such subpart for a successful transition are not met.
§ 26.65
Designating authorities.
The parties shall ensure that the designating authorities specified in subpart B of this part have the power and competence in their respective territories to carry out decisions under this part to designate, monitor, suspend, remove suspension of, or withdraw conformity assessment bodies (CAB's).
§ 26.66
Designation and listing procedures.
The following procedures shall apply with regard to the designation of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) and the inclusion of such bodies in the list of CAB's in subpart B of this part:
(a) The designating authority identified in subpart B of this part shall designate CAB's in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in subpart B of this part;
(b) A party proposing to add a CAB to the list of such bodies in subpart B of this part shall forward its proposal of one or more designated CAB's in writing to the other party with a view to a decision by the Joint Committee;
(c) Within 60 days following receipt of the proposal, the other party shall indicate its position regarding either its confirmation or its opposition. Upon confirmation, the inclusion in subpart B of this part of the proposed CAB or CAB's shall take effect; and
(d) In the event that the other party contests on the basis of documented evidence the technical competence or compliance of a proposed CAB, or indicates in writing that it requires an additional 30 days to more fully verify such evidence, such CAB shall not be included on the list of CAB's in subpart B of this part. In this instance, the Joint Committee may decide that the body concerned be verified. After the completion of such verification, the proposal to list the CAB in subpart B may be resubmitted to the other party.
§ 26.67
Suspension of listed conformity assessment bodies.
The following procedures shall apply with regard to the suspension of a conformity assessment body (CAB) listed in subpart B of this part.
(a) A party shall notify the other party of its contestation of the technical competence or compliance of a CAB listed in subpart B of this part and the contesting party's intent to suspend such CAB. Such contestation shall be exercised when justified in an objective and reasoned manner in writing to the other party;
(b) The CAB shall be given prompt notice by the other party and an opportunity to present information in order to refute the contestation or to correct the deficiencies which form the basis of the contestation;
(c) Any such contestation shall be discussed between the parties in the Joint Sectoral Committee described in subpart B of this part. If there is no Joint Sectoral Committee, the contesting party shall refer the matter directly to the Joint Committee. If agreement to suspend is reached by the Joint Sectoral Committee or, if there is no Joint Sectoral Committee, by the Joint Committee, the CAB shall be suspended;
(d) Where the Joint Sectoral Committee or Joint Committee decides that verification of technical competence or compliance is required, it shall normally be carried out in a timely manner by the party in whose territory the body in question is located, but may be carried out jointly by the parties in justified cases;
(e) If the matter has not been resolved by the Joint Sectoral Committee within 10 days of the notice of contestation, the matter shall be referred to the Joint Committee for a decision. If there is no Joint Sectoral Committee, the matter shall be referred directly to the Joint Committee. If no decision is reached by the Joint Committee within 10 days of the referral to it, the CAB shall be suspended upon the request of the contesting party;
(f) Upon the suspension of a CAB listed in subpart B of this part, a party is no longer obligated to accept or recognize the results of conformity assessment procedures performed by that CAB subsequent to suspension. A party shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment procedures performed by that CAB prior to suspension, unless a regulatory authority of
the party decides otherwise based on health, safety or environmental considerations or failure to satisfy other requirements within the scope of subpart B of this part; and
(g) The suspension shall remain in effect until agreement has been reached by the parties upon the future status of that body.
§ 26.68
Withdrawal of listed conformity assessment bodies.
The following procedures shall apply with regard to the withdrawal from subpart B of this part of a conformity assessment body (CAB):
(a) A party proposing to withdraw a CAB listed in subpart B of this part shall forward its proposal in writing to the other party;
(b) Such CAB shall be promptly notified by the other party and shall be provided a period of at least 30 days from receipt to provide information in order to refute or to correct the deficiencies which form the basis of the proposed withdrawal;
(c) Within 60 days following receipt of the proposal, the other party shall indicate its position regarding either its confirmation or its opposition. Upon confirmation, the withdrawal from the list in subpart B of this part of the CAB shall take effect;
(d) In the event the other party opposes the proposal to withdraw by supporting the technical competence and compliance of the CAB, the CAB shall not at that time be withdrawn from the list of CAB's in subpart B of this part. In this instance, the Joint Sectoral Committee or the Joint Committee may decide to carry out a joint verification of the body concerned. After the completion of such verification, the proposal for withdrawal of the CAB may be resubmitted to the other party; and
(e) Subsequent to the withdrawal of a CAB listed in subpart B of this part, a party shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment procedures performed by that CAB prior to withdrawal, unless a regulatory authority of the party decides otherwise based on health, safety, and environmental considerations or failure to satisfy other requirements within the scope of subpart B of this part.
§ 26.69
Monitoring of conformity assessment bodies.
The following shall apply with regard to the monitoring of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) listed in subpart B of this part:
(a) Designating authorities shall assure that their CAB's listed in subpart B of this part are capable and remain capable of properly assessing conformity of products or processes, as applicable, and as covered in subpart B of this part. In this regard, designating authorities shall maintain, or cause to maintain, ongoing surveillance over their CAB's by means of regular audit or assessment;
(b) The parties undertake to compare methods used to verify that the CAB's listed in subpart B of this part comply with the relevant requirements of subpart B of this part. Existing systems for the evaluation of CAB's may be used as part of such comparison procedures;
(c) Designating authorities shall consult as necessary with their counterparts, to ensure the maintenance of confidence in conformity assessment procedures. With the consent of both parties, this consultation may include joint participation in audits/inspections related to conformity assessment activities or other assessments of CAB's listed in subpart B of this part; and
(d) Designating authorities shall consult, as necessary, with the relevant regulatory authorities of the other party to ensure that all technical requirements are identified and are satisfactorily addressed.
§ 26.70
Conformity assessment bodies.
Each party recognizes that the conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) listed in subpart B of this part fulfill the conditions of eligibility to assess conformity in relation to its requirements as specified in subpart B of this part. The parties shall specify the scope of the conformity assessment procedures for which such bodies are listed.
§ 26.71
Exchange of information.
(a) The parties shall exchange information concerning the implementation
of the legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions identified in subparts A and B of this part.
(b) Each party shall notify the other party of legislative, regulatory, and administrative changes related to the subject matter of this part at least 60 days before their entry into force. Where considerations of safety, health or environmental protection require more urgent action, a party shall notify the other party as soon as practicable.
(c) Each party shall promptly notify the other party of any changes to its designating authorities and/or conformity assessment bodies (CAB's).
(d) The parties shall exchange information concerning the procedures used to ensure that the listed CAB's under their responsibility comply with the legislative, regulatory, and administrative provisions outlined in subpart B of this part.
(e) Regulatory authorities identified in subparts A and B of this part shall consult as necessary with their counterparts, to ensure the maintenance of confidence in conformity assessment procedures and to ensure that all technical requirements are identified and are satisfactorily addressed.
§ 26.72
Sectoral contact points.
Each party shall appoint and confirm in writing contact points to be responsible for activities under subparts A and B of this part.
§ 26.73
Joint Committee.
(a) A Joint Committee consisting of representatives of the United States and the European Community (EC) will be established. The Joint Committee shall be responsible for the effective functioning of the “Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community,” from which this part is derived.
(b) The Joint Committee may establish Joint Sectoral Committees comprised of appropriate regulatory authorities and others deemed necessary.
(c) The United States and the EC shall each have one vote in the Joint Committee. The Joint Committee shall make its decisions by unanimous consent. The Joint Committee shall determine its own rules and procedures.
(d) The Joint Committee may consider any matter relating to the effective functioning of that agreement. In particular it shall be responsible for:
(1) Listing, suspension, withdrawal and verification of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) in accordance with that agreement;
(2) Amending transitional arrangements in the sectoral annexes to that agreement;
(3) Resolving any questions relating to the application of that agreement not otherwise resolved in the respective Joint Sectoral Committees;
(4) Providing a forum for discussion of issues that may arise concerning the implementation of that agreement;
(5) Considering ways to enhance the operation of that agreement;
(6) Coordinating the negotiation of additional sectoral annexes to that agreement; and
(7) Considering whether to amend that agreement in accordance with § 26.80.
(e) When a party introduces new or additional conformity assessment procedures affecting a sectoral annex to that agreement, the parties shall discuss the matter in the Joint Committee with a view to bringing such new or additional procedures within the scope of that agreement and the relevant sectoral annex.
§ 26.74
Preservation of regulatory authority.
(a) Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the authority of a party to determine, through its legislative, regulatory, and administrative measures, the level of protection it considers appropriate for safety; for protection of human, animal, or plant life or health; for the environment; for consumers; and otherwise with regard to risks within the scope of the applicable subpart A or B of this part.
(b) Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the authority of a regulatory authority to take all appropriate and immediate measures whenever it ascertains that a product may:
(1) Compromise the health or safety of persons in its territory;
(2) Not meet the legislative, regulatory, or administrative provisions within the scope of the applicable subpart A or B of this part; or
(3) Otherwise fail to satisfy a requirement within the scope of the applicable subpart A or B of this part. Such measures may include withdrawing the products from the market, prohibiting their placement on the market, restricting their free movement, initiating a product recall, and preventing the recurrence of such problems, including through a prohibition on imports. If the regulatory authority takes such action, it shall inform its counterpart authority and the other party within 15 days of taking such action, providing its reasons.
§ 26.75
Suspension of recognition obligations.
Either party may suspend its obligations under subpart A or B of this part, in whole or in part, if:
(a) A party suffers a loss of market access for the party's products within the scope of subpart A or B of this part as a result of the failure of the other party to fulfill its obligations under this part;
(b) The adoption of new or additional conformity assessment requirements as referenced in § 26.73(e) results in a loss of market access for the party's products within the scope of subpart B of this part because conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) designated by the party in order to meet such requirements have not been recognized by the party implementing the requirements; or
(c) The other party fails to maintain legal and regulatory authorities capable of implementing the provisions of this part.
§ 26.76
Confidentiality.
(a) Each party agrees to maintain, to the extent required under its laws, the confidentiality of information exchanged under this part.
(b) In particular, neither party shall disclose to the public, nor permit a conformity assessment body (CAB) to disclose to the public, information exchanged under this part that constitutes trade secrets, confidential commercial or financial information, or information that relates to an ongoing investigation.
(c) A party or a CAB may, upon exchanging information with the other party or with a CAB of the other party, designate the portions of the information that it considers to be exempt from disclosure.
(d) Each party shall take all precautions reasonably necessary to protect information exchanged under this part from unauthorized disclosure.
§ 26.77
Fees.
Each party shall endeavor to ensure that fees imposed for services under this part shall be commensurate with the services provided. Each party shall ensure that, for the sectors and conformity assessment procedures covered under this part, it shall charge no fees with respect to conformity assessment services provided by the other party.
§ 26.78
Agreements with other countries.
Except where there is written agreement between the parties, obligations contained in mutual recognition agreements concluded by either party with a party not a party to the agreement from which this part is derived (a third party) shall have no force and effect with regard to the other party in terms of acceptance of the results of conformity assessment procedures in the third party.
§ 26.79
Territorial application.
The agreement from which this part is derived shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community (EC) is applied, and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the United States.
§ 26.80
Entry into force, amendment, and termination.
(a) The “Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community,” from which this part is derived, including its sectoral annexes on telecommunication equipment, electromagnetic compatibility, electrical safety, recreational craft, pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP) inspections, and medical devices shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties have exchanged letters confirming the completion of their respective procedures for the entry into force of that agreement.
(b) That agreement including any sectoral annex may, through the Joint Committee, be amended in writing by the parties to that agreement. Those parties may add a sectoral annex upon the exchange of letters. Such annex shall enter into force 30 days following the date on which those parties have exchanged letters confirming the completion of their respective procedures for the entry into force of the sectoral annex.
(c) Either party to that agreement may terminate that agreement in its entirety or any individual sectoral annex thereof by giving the other party to that agreement 6-months notice in writing. In the case of termination of one or more sectoral annexes, the parties to that agreement will seek to achieve by consensus to amend that agreement, with a view to preserving the remaining Sectoral Annexes, in accordance with the procedures in this section. Failing such consensus, that agreement shall terminate at the end of 6 months from the date of notice.
(d) Following termination of that agreement in its entirety or any individual sectoral annex thereof, a party to that agreement shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment procedures performed by conformity assessment bodies under that agreement prior to termination, unless a regulatory authority in the party decides otherwise based on health, safety and environmental considerations or failure to satisfy other requirements within the scope of the applicable sectoral annex.
§ 26.81
Final provisions.
(a) The sectoral annexes referred to in § 26.80(a), as well as any new sectoral annexes added pursuant to § 26.80(b), shall form an integral part of the “Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community,” from which this part is derived.
(b) For a given product or sector, the provisions contained in subparts A and B of this part shall apply in the first place, and the provisions of subpart C of this part in addition to those provisions. In the case of any inconsistency between the provisions of subpart A or B of this part and subpart C of this part, subpart A or B shall prevail, to the extent of that inconsistency.
(c) The agreement from which this part is derived shall not affect the rights and obligations of the parties under any other international agreement.
(d) In the case of subpart B of this part, the parties shall review the status of such subpart at the end of 3 years from the date described in § 26.80(a).
Pt. 50

# PART 50—PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
50.1
Scope.
50.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Informed Consent of Human Subjects
50.20
General requirements for informed consent.
50.22
Exception from informed consent requirements for minimal risk clinical investigations.
50.23
Exception from general requirements.
50.24
Exception from informed consent requirements for emergency research.
50.25
Elements of informed consent.
50.27
Documentation of informed consent.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Additional Safeguards for Children in Clinical Investigations
50.50
IRB duties.
50.51
Clinical investigations not involving greater than minimal risk.
50.52
Clinical investigations involving greater than minimal risk but presenting the prospect of direct benefit to individual subjects.
50.53
Clinical investigations involving greater than minimal risk and no prospect of direct benefit to individual subjects, but likely to yield generalizable knowledge about the subjects' disorder or condition.
50.54
Clinical investigations not otherwise approvable that present an opportunity
to understand, prevent, or alleviate a serious problem affecting the health or welfare of children.
50.55
Requirements for permission by parents or guardians and for assent by children.
50.56
Wards.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 343, 346, 346a, 348, 350a, 350b, 352, 353, 355, 360, 360c-360f, 360h-360j, 371, 379e, 381; 42 U.S.C. 216, 241, 262.

# Source:
45 FR 36390, May 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 50.1
Scope.
(a) This part applies to all clinical investigations regulated by the Food and Drug Administration under sections 505(i) and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as well as clinical investigations that support applications for research or marketing permits for products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, including foods, including dietary supplements, that bear a nutrient content claim or a health claim, infant formulas, food and color additives, drugs for human use, medical devices for human use, biological products for human use, and electronic products. Additional specific obligations and commitments of, and standards of conduct for, persons who sponsor or monitor clinical investigations involving particular test articles may also be found in other parts (e.g., parts 312 and 812). Compliance with these parts is intended to protect the rights and safety of subjects involved in investigations filed with the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to sections 403, 406, 409, 412, 413, 502, 503, 505, 510, 513-516, 518-520, 721, and 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and sections 351 and 354-360F of the Public Health Service Act.
(b) References in this part to regulatory sections of the Code of Federal Regulations are to chapter I of title 21, unless otherwise noted.
[45 FR 36390, May 30, 1980; 46 FR 8979, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 26697, May 13, 1998; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 66 FR 20597, Apr. 24, 2001]
§ 50.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (secs. 201-902, 52 Stat. 1040
et seq.
as amended (21 U.S.C. 321-392)).
(b)
Application for research or marketing permit
includes:
(1) A color additive petition, described in part 71.
(2) A food additive petition, described in parts 171 and 571.
(3) Data and information about a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing that the substance is generally recognized as safe for use that results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food, described in §§ 170.30 and 570.30.
(4) Data and information about a food additive submitted as part of the procedures for food additives permitted to be used on an interim basis pending additional study, described in § 180.1.
(5) Data and information about a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing a tolerance for unavoidable contaminants in food and food-packaging materials, described in section 406 of the act.
(6) An investigational new drug application, described in part 312 of this chapter.
(7) A new drug application, described in part 314.
(8) Data and information about the bioavailability or bioequivalence of drugs for human use submitted as part of the procedures for issuing, amending, or repealing a bioequivalence requirement, described in part 320.
(9) Data and information about an over-the-counter drug for human use submitted as part of the procedures for classifying these drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, described in part 330.
(10) Data and information about a prescription drug for human use submitted as part of the procedures for classifying these drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, described in this chapter.
(11) [Reserved]
(12) An application for a biologics license, described in part 601 of this chapter.
(13) Data and information about a biological product submitted as part of the procedures for determining that licensed biological products are safe and effective and not misbranded, described in part 601.
(14) Data and information about an in vitro diagnostic product submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for these products, described in part 809.
(15) An
Application for an Investigational Device Exemption,
described in part 812.
(16) Data and information about a medical device submitted as part of the procedures for classifying these devices, described in section 513.
(17) Data and information about a medical device submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for these devices, described in section 514.
(18) An application for premarket approval of a medical device, described in section 515.
(19) A product development protocol for a medical device, described in section 515.
(20) Data and information about an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for these products, described in section 358 of the Public Health Service Act.
(21) Data and information about an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for obtaining a variance from any electronic product performance standard, as described in § 1010.4.
(22) Data and information about an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for granting, amending, or extending an exemption from a radiation safety performance standard, as described in § 1010.5.
(23) Data and information about a clinical study of an infant formula when submitted as part of an infant formula notification under section 412(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(24) Data and information submitted in a petition for a nutrient content claim, described in § 101.69 of this chapter, or for a health claim, described in § 101.70 of this chapter.
(25) Data and information from investigations involving children submitted in a new dietary ingredient notification, described in § 190.6 of this chapter.
(c)
Clinical investigation
means any experiment that involves a test article and one or more human subjects and that either is subject to requirements for prior submission to the Food and Drug Administration under section 505(i) or 520(g) of the act, or is not subject to requirements for prior submission to the Food and Drug Administration under these sections of the act, but the results of which are intended to be submitted later to, or held for inspection by, the Food and Drug Administration as part of an application for a research or marketing permit. The term does not include experiments that are subject to the provisions of part 58 of this chapter, regarding nonclinical laboratory studies.
(d)
Investigator
means an individual who actually conducts a clinical investigation, i.e., under whose immediate direction the test article is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, a subject, or, in the event of an investigation conducted by a team of individuals, is the responsible leader of that team.
(e)
Sponsor
means a person who initiates a clinical investigation, but who does not actually conduct the investigation, i.e., the test article is administered or dispensed to or used involving, a subject under the immediate direction of another individual. A person other than an individual (e.g., corporation or agency) that uses one or more of its own employees to conduct a clinical investigation it has initiated is considered to be a sponsor (not a sponsor-investigator), and the employees are considered to be investigators.
(f)
Sponsor-investigator
means an individual who both initiates and actually conducts, alone or with others, a clinical investigation, i.e., under whose immediate direction the test article is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, a subject. The term does not include any person other than an individual, e.g., corporation or agency.
(g)
Human subject
means an individual who is or becomes a participant in research, either as a recipient of the test article or as a control. A subject may be either a healthy human or a patient.
(h)
Institution
means any public or private entity or agency (including Federal, State, and other agencies). The word
facility
as used in section 520(g) of the act is deemed to be synonymous with the term
institution
for purposes of this part.
(i)
Institutional review board
(IRB) means any board, committee, or other group formally designated by an institution to review biomedical research involving humans as subjects, to approve the initiation of and conduct periodic review of such research. The term has the same meaning as the phrase
institutional review committee
as used in section 520(g) of the act.
(j)
Test article
means any drug (including a biological product for human use), medical device for human use, human food additive, color additive, electronic product, or any other article subject to regulation under the act or under sections 351 and 354-360F of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262 and 263b-263n).
(k)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(l)
Legally authorized representative
means an individual or judicial or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a prospective subject to the subject's particpation in the procedure(s) involved in the research.
(m)
Family member
means any one of the following legally competent persons: Spouse; parents; children (including adopted children); brothers, sisters, and spouses of brothers and sisters; and any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the subject is the equivalent of a family relationship.
(n)
Assent
means a child's affirmative agreement to participate in a clinical investigation. Mere failure to object should not, absent affirmative agreement, be construed as assent.
(o)
Children
means persons who have not attained the legal age for consent to treatments or procedures involved in clinical investigations, under the applicable law of the jurisdiction in which the clinical investigation will be conducted.
(p)
Parent
means a child's biological or adoptive parent.
(q)
Ward
means a child who is placed in the legal custody of the State or other agency, institution, or entity, consistent with applicable Federal, State, or local law.
(r)
Permission
means the agreement of parent(s) or guardian to the participation of their child or ward in a clinical investigation.
(s)
Guardian
means an individual who is authorized under applicable State or local law to consent on behalf of a child to general medical care.
[45 FR 36390, May 30, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 8950, Jan. 27, 1981; 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 56 FR 28028, June 18, 1991; 61 FR 51528, Oct. 2, 1996; 62 FR 39440, July 23, 1997; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 64 FR 56448, Oct. 20, 1999; 66 FR 20597, Apr. 24, 2001; 78 FR 12950, Feb. 26, 2013]

# Subpart B—Informed Consent of Human Subjects

# Source:
46 FR 8951, Jan. 27, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.20
General requirements for informed consent.
Except as provided in §§ 50.22, 50.23, and 50.24, no investigator may involve a human being as a subject in research covered by these regulations unless the investigator has obtained the legally effective informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.An investigator shall seek such consent only under circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the representative sufficient opportunity to consider whether or not to participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence. The information that is given to the subject or the representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or the representative. No informed consent, whether oral or written, may include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's legal rights, or releases or appears to release
the investigator, the sponsor, the institution, or its agents from liability for negligence.
[46 FR 8951, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 10942, Mar. 8, 1999; 88 FR 88248, Dec. 21, 2023]
§ 50.22
Exception from informed consent requirements for minimal risk clinical investigations.
The IRB responsible for the review, approval, and continuing review of the clinical investigation described in this section may approve an informed consent procedure that does not include or that alters some or all of the elements of informed consent set forth in § 50.25(a) and (b), or may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent, provided the IRB finds and documents the following:
(a) The clinical investigation involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(b) The clinical investigation could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
(c) If the clinical investigation involves using identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, the clinical investigation could not practicably be carried out without using such information or biospecimens in an identifiable format;
(d) The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
(e) Whenever appropriate, the subjects or legally authorized representatives will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
[88 FR 88248, Dec. 21, 2023]
§ 50.23
Exception from general requirements.
(a) The obtaining of informed consent shall be deemed feasible unless, before use of the test article (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section), both the investigator and a physician who is not otherwise participating in the clinical investigation certify in writing all of the following:
(1) The human subject is confronted by a life-threatening situation necessitating the use of the test article.
(2) Informed consent cannot be obtained from the subject because of an inability to communicate with, or obtain legally effective consent from, the subject.
(3) Time is not sufficient to obtain consent from the subject's legal representative.
(4) There is available no alternative method of approved or generally recognized therapy that provides an equal or greater likelihood of saving the life of the subject.
(b) If immediate use of the test article is, in the investigator's opinion, required to preserve the life of the subject, and time is not sufficient to obtain the independent determination required in paragraph (a) of this section in advance of using the test article, the determinations of the clinical investigator shall be made and, within 5 working days after the use of the article, be reviewed and evaluated in writing by a physician who is not participating in the clinical investigation.
(c) The documentation required in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be submitted to the IRB within 5 working days after the use of the test article.
(d)(1) Under 10 U.S.C. 1107(f) the President may waive the prior consent requirement for the administration of an investigational new drug to a member of the armed forces in connection with the member's participation in a particular military operation. The statute specifies that only the President may waive informed consent in this connection and the President may grant such a waiver only if the President determines in writing that obtaining consent: Is not feasible; is contrary to the best interests of the military member; or is not in the interests of national security. The statute further provides that in making a determination to waive prior informed consent on the ground that it is not feasible or the ground that it is contrary to the best interests of the military members involved, the President shall apply the standards and criteria that are set forth in the relevant FDA regulations for a waiver of the prior informed consent requirements of section 505(i)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)(4)). Before such a
determination may be made that obtaining informed consent from military personnel prior to the use of an investigational drug (including an antibiotic or biological product) in a specific protocol under an investigational new drug application (IND) sponsored by the Department of Defense (DOD) and limited to specific military personnel involved in a particular military operation is not feasible or is contrary to the best interests of the military members involved the Secretary of Defense must first request such a determination from the President, and certify and document to the President that the following standards and criteria contained in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section have been met.
(i) The extent and strength of evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the investigational new drug in relation to the medical risk that could be encountered during the military operation supports the drug's administration under an IND.
(ii) The military operation presents a substantial risk that military personnel may be subject to a chemical, biological, nuclear, or other exposure likely to produce death or serious or life-threatening injury or illness.
(iii) There is no available satisfactory alternative therapeutic or preventive treatment in relation to the intended use of the investigational new drug.
(iv) Conditioning use of the investigational new drug on the voluntary participation of each member could significantly risk the safety and health of any individual member who would decline its use, the safety of other military personnel, and the accomplishment of the military mission.
(v) A duly constituted institutional review board (IRB) established and operated in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, responsible for review of the study, has reviewed and approved the investigational new drug protocol and the administration of the investigational new drug without informed consent. DOD's request is to include the documentation required by § 56.115(a)(2) of this chapter.
(vi) DOD has explained:
(A) The context in which the investigational drug will be administered, e.g., the setting or whether it will be self-administered or it will be administered by a health professional;
(B) The nature of the disease or condition for which the preventive or therapeutic treatment is intended; and
(C) To the extent there are existing data or information available, information on conditions that could alter the effects of the investigational drug.
(vii) DOD's recordkeeping system is capable of tracking and will be used to track the proposed treatment from supplier to the individual recipient.
(viii) Each member involved in the military operation will be given, prior to the administration of the investigational new drug, a specific written information sheet (including information required by 10 U.S.C. 1107(d)) concerning the investigational new drug, the risks and benefits of its use, potential side effects, and other pertinent information about the appropriate use of the product.
(ix) Medical records of members involved in the military operation will accurately document the receipt by members of the notification required by paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section.
(x) Medical records of members involved in the military operation will accurately document the receipt by members of any investigational new drugs in accordance with FDA regulations including part 312 of this chapter.
(xi) DOD will provide adequate followup to assess whether there are beneficial or adverse health consequences that result from the use of the investigational product.
(xii) DOD is pursuing drug development, including a time line, and marketing approval with due diligence.
(xiii) FDA has concluded that the investigational new drug protocol may proceed subject to a decision by the President on the informed consent waiver request.
(xiv) DOD will provide training to the appropriate medical personnel and potential recipients on the specific investigational new drug to be administered prior to its use.
(xv) DOD has stated and justified the time period for which the waiver is needed, not to exceed one year, unless
separately renewed under these standards and criteria.
(xvi) DOD shall have a continuing obligation to report to the FDA and to the President any changed circumstances relating to these standards and criteria (including the time period referred to in paragraph (d)(1)(xv) of this section) or that otherwise might affect the determination to use an investigational new drug without informed consent.
(xvii) DOD is to provide public notice as soon as practicable and consistent with classification requirements through notice in the
Federal Register
describing each waiver of informed consent determination, a summary of the most updated scientific information on the products used, and other pertinent information.
(xviii) Use of the investigational drug without informed consent otherwise conforms with applicable law.
(2) The duly constituted institutional review board, described in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section, must include at least 3 nonaffiliated members who shall not be employees or officers of the Federal Government (other than for purposes of membership on the IRB) and shall be required to obtain any necessary security clearances. This IRB shall review the proposed IND protocol at a convened meeting at which a majority of the members are present including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas and, if feasible, including a majority of the nonaffiliated members. The information required by § 56.115(a)(2) of this chapter is to be provided to the Secretary of Defense for further review.
(3) The duly constituted institutional review board, described in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section, must review and approve:
(i) The required information sheet;
(ii) The adequacy of the plan to disseminate information, including distribution of the information sheet to potential recipients, on the investigational product (e.g., in forms other than written);
(iii) The adequacy of the information and plans for its dissemination to health care providers, including potential side effects, contraindications, potential interactions, and other pertinent considerations; and
(iv) An informed consent form as required by part 50 of this chapter, in those circumstances in which DOD determines that informed consent may be obtained from some or all personnel involved.
(4) DOD is to submit to FDA summaries of institutional review board meetings at which the proposed protocol has been reviewed.
(5) Nothing in these criteria or standards is intended to preempt or limit FDA's and DOD's authority or obligations under applicable statutes and regulations.
(e)(1) Obtaining informed consent for investigational in vitro diagnostic devices used to identify chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear agents will be deemed feasible unless, before use of the test article, both the investigator (e.g., clinical laboratory director or other responsible individual) and a physician who is not otherwise participating in the clinical investigation make the determinations and later certify in writing all of the following:
(i) The human subject is confronted by a life-threatening situation necessitating the use of the investigational in vitro diagnostic device to identify a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear agent that would suggest a terrorism event or other public health emergency.
(ii) Informed consent cannot be obtained from the subject because:
(A) There was no reasonable way for the person directing that the specimen be collected to know, at the time the specimen was collected, that there would be a need to use the investigational in vitro diagnostic device on that subject's specimen; and
(B) Time is not sufficient to obtain consent from the subject without risking the life of the subject.
(iii) Time is not sufficient to obtain consent from the subject's legally authorized representative.
(iv) There is no cleared or approved available alternative method of diagnosis, to identify the chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear agent that provides an equal or greater likelihood of saving the life of the subject.
(2) If use of the investigational device is, in the opinion of the investigator (e.g., clinical laboratory director or other responsible person), required to preserve the life of the subject, and time is not sufficient to obtain the independent determination required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section in advance of using the investigational device, the determinations of the investigator shall be made and, within 5 working days after the use of the device, be reviewed and evaluated in writing by a physician who is not participating in the clinical investigation.
(3) The investigator must submit the written certification of the determinations made by the investigator and an independent physician required in paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section to the IRB and FDA within 5 working days after the use of the device.
(4) An investigator must disclose the investigational status of the in vitro diagnostic device and what is known about the performance characteristics of the device in the report to the subject's health care provider and in any report to public health authorities. The investigator must provide the IRB with the information required in § 50.25 (except for the information described in § 50.25(a)(8)) and the procedures that will be used to provide this information to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative at the time the test results are provided to the subject's health care provider and public health authorities.
(5) The IRB is responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the information required in section 50.25 (except for the information described in § 50.25(a)(8)) and for ensuring that procedures are in place to provide this information to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(6) No State or political subdivision of a State may establish or continue in effect any law, rule, regulation or other requirement that informed consent be obtained before an investigational in vitro diagnostic device may be used to identify chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear agent in suspected terrorism events and other potential public health emergencies that is different from, or in addition to, the requirements of this regulation.
[46 FR 8951, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 55 FR 52817, Dec. 21, 1990; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 64 FR 54188, Oct. 5, 1999; 71 FR 32833, June 7, 2006; 76 FR 36993, June 24, 2011]
§ 50.24
Exception from informed consent requirements for emergency research.
(a) The IRB responsible for the review, approval, and continuing review of the clinical investigation described in this section may approve that investigation without requiring that informed consent of all research subjects be obtained if the IRB (with the concurrence of a licensed physician who is a member of or consultant to the IRB and who is not otherwise participating in the clinical investigation) finds and documents each of the following:
(1) The human subjects are in a life-threatening situation, available treatments are unproven or unsatisfactory, and the collection of valid scientific evidence, which may include evidence obtained through randomized placebo-controlled investigations, is necessary to determine the safety and effectiveness of particular interventions.
(2) Obtaining informed consent is not feasible because:
(i) The subjects will not be able to give their informed consent as a result of their medical condition;
(ii) The intervention under investigation must be administered before consent from the subjects' legally authorized representatives is feasible; and
(iii) There is no reasonable way to identify prospectively the individuals likely to become eligible for participation in the clinical investigation.
(3) Participation in the research holds out the prospect of direct benefit to the subjects because:
(i) Subjects are facing a life-threatening situation that necessitates intervention;
(ii) Appropriate animal and other preclinical studies have been conducted, and the information derived from those studies and related evidence support the potential for the intervention to provide a direct benefit to the individual subjects; and
(iii) Risks associated with the investigation are reasonable in relation to
what is known about the medical condition of the potential class of subjects, the risks and benefits of standard therapy, if any, and what is known about the risks and benefits of the proposed intervention or activity.
(4) The clinical investigation could not practicably be carried out without the waiver.
(5) The proposed investigational plan defines the length of the potential therapeutic window based on scientific evidence, and the investigator has committed to attempting to contact a legally authorized representative for each subject within that window of time and, if feasible, to asking the legally authorized representative contacted for consent within that window rather than proceeding without consent. The investigator will summarize efforts made to contact legally authorized representatives and make this information available to the IRB at the time of continuing review.
(6) The IRB has reviewed and approved informed consent procedures and an informed consent document consistent with § 50.25. These procedures and the informed consent document are to be used with subjects or their legally authorized representatives in situations where use of such procedures and documents is feasible. The IRB has reviewed and approved procedures and information to be used when providing an opportunity for a family member to object to a subject's participation in the clinical investigation consistent with paragraph (a)(7)(v) of this section.
(7) Additional protections of the rights and welfare of the subjects will be provided, including, at least:
(i) Consultation (including, where appropriate, consultation carried out by the IRB) with representatives of the communities in which the clinical investigation will be conducted and from which the subjects will be drawn;
(ii) Public disclosure to the communities in which the clinical investigation will be conducted and from which the subjects will be drawn, prior to initiation of the clinical investigation, of plans for the investigation and its risks and expected benefits;
(iii) Public disclosure of sufficient information following completion of the clinical investigation to apprise the community and researchers of the study, including the demographic characteristics of the research population, and its results;
(iv) Establishment of an independent data monitoring committee to exercise oversight of the clinical investigation; and
(v) If obtaining informed consent is not feasible and a legally authorized representative is not reasonably available, the investigator has committed, if feasible, to attempting to contact within the therapeutic window the subject's family member who is not a legally authorized representative, and asking whether he or she objects to the subject's participation in the clinical investigation. The investigator will summarize efforts made to contact family members and make this information available to the IRB at the time of continuing review.
(b) The IRB is responsible for ensuring that procedures are in place to inform, at the earliest feasible opportunity, each subject, or if the subject remains incapacitated, a legally authorized representative of the subject, or if such a representative is not reasonably available, a family member, of the subject's inclusion in the clinical investigation, the details of the investigation and other information contained in the informed consent document. The IRB shall also ensure that there is a procedure to inform the subject, or if the subject remains incapacitated, a legally authorized representative of the subject, or if such a representative is not reasonably available, a family member, that he or she may discontinue the subject's participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled. If a legally authorized representative or family member is told about the clinical investigation and the subject's condition improves, the subject is also to be informed as soon as feasible. If a subject is entered into a clinical investigation with waived consent and the subject dies before a legally authorized representative or family member can be contacted, information about the clinical investigation is to be provided to the subject's
legally authorized representative or family member, if feasible.
(c) The IRB determinations required by paragraph (a) of this section and the documentation required by paragraph (e) of this section are to be retained by the IRB for at least 3 years after completion of the clinical investigation, and the records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by FDA in accordance with § 56.115(b) of this chapter.
(d) Protocols involving an exception to the informed consent requirement under this section must be performed under a separate investigational new drug application (IND) or investigational device exemption (IDE) that clearly identifies such protocols as protocols that may include subjects who are unable to consent. The submission of those protocols in a separate IND/IDE is required even if an IND for the same drug product or an IDE for the same device already exists. Applications for investigations under this section may not be submitted as amendments under §§ 312.30 or 812.35 of this chapter.
(e) If an IRB determines that it cannot approve a clinical investigation because the investigation does not meet the criteria in the exception provided under paragraph (a) of this section or because of other relevant ethical concerns, the IRB must document its findings and provide these findings promptly in writing to the clinical investigator and to the sponsor of the clinical investigation. The sponsor of the clinical investigation must promptly disclose this information to FDA and to the sponsor's clinical investigators who are participating or are asked to participate in this or a substantially equivalent clinical investigation of the sponsor, and to other IRB's that have been, or are, asked to review this or a substantially equivalent investigation by that sponsor.
[61 FR 51528, Oct. 2, 1996]
§ 50.25
Elements of informed consent.
(a)
Basic elements of informed consent.
In seeking informed consent, the following information shall be provided to each subject:
(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures which are experimental.
(2) A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the subject.
(3) A description of any benefits to the subject or to others which may reasonably be expected from the research.
(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject.
(5) A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be maintained and that notes the possibility that the Food and Drug Administration may inspect the records.
(6) For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or where further information may be obtained.
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject.
(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, that refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled, and that the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled.
(b)
Additional elements of informed consent.
When appropriate, one or more of the following elements of information shall also be provided to each subject:
(1) A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is or may become pregnant) which are currently unforeseeable.
(2) Anticipated circumstances under which the subject's participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard to the subject's consent.
(3) Any additional costs to the subject that may result from participation in the research.
(4) The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by the subject.
(5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the course of the research which may relate to the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject.
(6) The approximate number of subjects involved in the study.
(c) When seeking informed consent for applicable clinical trials, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 282(j)(1)(A), the following statement shall be provided to each clinical trial subject in informed consent documents and processes. This will notify the clinical trial subject that clinical trial information has been or will be submitted for inclusion in the clinical trial registry databank under paragraph (j) of section 402 of the Public Health Service Act. The statement is: “A description of this clinical trial will be available on
http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov,
as required by U.S. Law. This Web site will not include information that can identify you. At most, the Web site will include a summary of the results. You can search this Web site at any time.”
(d) The informed consent requirements in these regulations are not intended to preempt any applicable Federal, State, or local laws which require additional information to be disclosed for informed consent to be legally effective.
(e) Nothing in these regulations is intended to limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, State, or local law.
[46 FR 8951, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 76 FR 270, Jan. 4, 2011]
§ 50.27
Documentation of informed consent.
(a) Except as provided in § 56.109(c), informed consent shall be documented by the use of a written consent form approved by the IRB and signed and dated by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative at the time of consent. A copy shall be given to the person signing the form.
(b) Except as provided in § 56.109(c), the consent form may be either of the following:
(1) A written consent document that embodies the elements of informed consent required by § 50.25. This form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, but, in any event, the investigator shall give either the subject or the representative adequate opportunity to read it before it is signed.
(2) A
short form
written consent document stating that the elements of informed consent required by § 50.25 have been presented orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral presentation. Also, the IRB shall approve a written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the representative. Only the short form itself is to be signed by the subject or the representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of the summary, and the person actually obtaining the consent shall sign a copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the representative in addition to a copy of the short form.
[46 FR 8951, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 61 FR 57280, Nov. 5, 1996]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Additional Safeguards for Children in Clinical Investigations

# Source:
66 FR 20598, Apr. 24, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.50
IRB duties.
In addition to other responsibilities assigned to IRBs under this part and part 56 of this chapter, each IRB must review clinical investigations involving children as subjects covered by this subpart D and approve only those clinical investigations that satisfy the criteria described in § 50.51, § 50.52, or § 50.53 and the conditions of all other applicable sections of this subpart D.
§ 50.51
Clinical investigations not involving greater than minimal risk.
Any clinical investigation within the scope described in §§ 50.1 and 56.101 of this chapter in which no greater than minimal risk to children is presented may involve children as subjects only if the IRB finds that:
(a) No greater than minimal risk to children is presented; and
(b) Adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of the children and the permission of their parents or guardians as set forth in § 50.55.
[78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 50.52
Clinical investigations involving greater than minimal risk but presenting the prospect of direct benefit to individual subjects.
Any clinical investigation within the scope described in §§ 50.1 and 56.101 of this chapter in which more than minimal risk to children is presented by an intervention or procedure that holds out the prospect of direct benefit for the individual subject, or by a monitoring procedure that is likely to contribute to the subject's well-being, may involve children as subjects only if the IRB finds that:
(a) The risk is justified by the anticipated benefit to the subjects;
(b) The relation of the anticipated benefit to the risk is at least as favorable to the subjects as that presented by available alternative approaches; and
(c) Adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of the children and permission of their parents or guardians as set forth in § 50.55.
[66 FR 20598, Apr. 24, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 50.53
Clinical investigations involving greater than minimal risk and no prospect of direct benefit to individual subjects, but likely to yield generalizable knowledge about the subjects' disorder or condition.
Any clinical investigation within the scope described in §§ 50.1 and 56.101 of this chapter in which more than minimal risk to children is presented by an intervention or procedure that does not hold out the prospect of direct benefit for the individual subject, or by a monitoring procedure that is not likely to contribute to the well-being of the subject, may involve children as subjects only if the IRB finds that:
(a) The risk represents a minor increase over minimal risk;
(b) The intervention or procedure presents experiences to subjects that are reasonably commensurate with those inherent in their actual or expected medical, dental, psychological, social, or educational situations;
(c) The intervention or procedure is likely to yield generalizable knowledge about the subjects' disorder or condition that is of vital importance for the understanding or amelioration of the subjects' disorder or condition; and
(d) Adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of the children and permission of their parents or guardians as set forth in § 50.55.
[66 FR 20598, Apr. 24, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 50.54
Clinical investigations not otherwise approvable that present an opportunity to understand, prevent, or alleviate a serious problem affecting the health or welfare of children.
If an IRB does not believe that a clinical investigation within the scope described in §§ 50.1 and 56.101 of this chapter and involving children as subjects meets the requirements of § 50.51, § 50.52, or § 50.53, the clinical investigation may proceed only if:
(a) The IRB finds that the clinical investigation presents a reasonable opportunity to further the understanding, prevention, or alleviation of a serious problem affecting the health or welfare of children; and
(b) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs, after consultation with a panel of experts in pertinent disciplines (for example: science, medicine, education, ethics, law) and following opportunity for public review and comment, determines either:
(1) That the clinical investigation in fact satisfies the conditions of § 50.51, § 50.52, or § 50.53, as applicable, or
(2) That the following conditions are met:
(i) The clinical investigation presents a reasonable opportunity to further the
understanding, prevention, or alleviation of a serious problem affecting the health or welfare of children;
(ii) The clinical investigation will be conducted in accordance with sound ethical principles; and
(iii) Adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of children and the permission of their parents or guardians as set forth in § 50.55.
[66 FR 20598, Apr. 24, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 50.55
Requirements for permission by parents or guardians and for assent by children.
(a) In addition to the determinations required under other applicable sections of this subpart D, the IRB must determine that adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of the children when in the judgment of the IRB the children are capable of providing assent.
(b) In determining whether children are capable of providing assent, the IRB must take into account the ages, maturity, and psychological state of the children involved. This judgment may be made for all children to be involved in clinical investigations under a particular protocol, or for each child, as the IRB deems appropriate.
(c) The assent of the children is not a necessary condition for proceeding with the clinical investigation if the IRB determines:
(1) That the capability of some or all of the children is so limited that they cannot reasonably be consulted, or
(2) That the intervention or procedure involved in the clinical investigation holds out a prospect of direct benefit that is important to the health or well-being of the children and is available only in the context of the clinical investigation.
(d) Even where the IRB determines that the subjects are capable of assenting, the IRB may still waive the assent requirement if it finds and documents that:
(1) The clinical investigation involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(2) The waiver will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects;
(3) The clinical investigation could not practicably be carried out without the waiver; and
(4) Whenever appropriate, the subjects will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
(e) In addition to the determinations required under other applicable sections of this subpart D, the IRB must determine, in accordance with and to the extent that consent is required under part 50, that the permission of each child's parents or guardian is granted.
(1) Where parental permission is to be obtained, the IRB may find that the permission of one parent is sufficient for clinical investigations to be conducted under § 50.51 or § 50.52.
(2) Where clinical investigations are covered by § 50.53 or § 50.54 and permission is to be obtained from parents, both parents must give their permission unless one parent is deceased, unknown, incompetent, or not reasonably available, or when only one parent has legal responsibility for the care and custody of the child.
(f) Permission by parents or guardians must be documented in accordance with and to the extent required by § 50.27.
(g) When the IRB determines that assent is required, it must also determine whether and how assent must be documented.
[66 FR 20598, Apr. 24, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 50.56
Wards.
(a) Children who are wards of the State or any other agency, institution, or entity can be included in clinical investigations approved under § 50.53 or § 50.54 only if such clinical investigations are:
(1) Related to their status as wards; or
(2) Conducted in schools, camps, hospitals, institutions, or similar settings in which the majority of children involved as subjects are not wards.
(b) If the clinical investigation is approved under paragraph (a) of this section, the IRB must require appointment of an advocate for each child who is a ward.
(1) The advocate will serve in addition to any other individual acting on behalf of the child as guardian or in loco parentis.
(2) One individual may serve as advocate for more than one child.
(3) The advocate must be an individual who has the background and experience to act in, and agrees to act in, the best interest of the child for the duration of the child's participation in the clinical investigation.
(4) The advocate must not be associated in any way (except in the role as advocate or member of the IRB) with the clinical investigation, the investigator(s), or the guardian organization.
Pt. 54

# PART 54—FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE BY CLINICAL INVESTIGATORS
Sec.
54.1
Purpose.
54.2
Definitions.
54.3
Scope.
54.4
Certification and disclosure requirements.
54.5
Agency evaluation of financial interests.
54.6
Recordkeeping and record retention.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 331, 351, 352, 353, 355, 360, 360c-360j, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376, 379; 42 U.S.C. 262.

# Source:
63 FR 5250, Feb. 2, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 54.1
Purpose.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) evaluates clinical studies submitted in marketing applications, required by law, for new human drugs and biological products and marketing applications and reclassification petitions for medical devices.
(b) The agency reviews data generated in these clinical studies to determine whether the applications are approvable under the statutory requirements. FDA may consider clinical studies inadequate and the data inadequate if, among other things, appropriate steps have not been taken in the design, conduct, reporting, and analysis of the studies to minimize bias. One potential source of bias in clinical studies is a financial interest of the clinical investigator in the outcome of the study because of the way payment is arranged (e.g., a royalty) or because the investigator has a proprietary interest in the product (e.g., a patent) or because the investigator has an equity interest in the sponsor of the covered study. This section and conforming regulations require an applicant whose submission relies in part on clinical data to disclose certain financial arrangements between sponsor(s) of the covered studies and the clinical investigators and certain interests of the clinical investigators in the product under study or in the sponsor of the covered studies. FDA will use this information, in conjunction with information about the design and purpose of the study, as well as information obtained through on-site inspections, in the agency's assessment of the reliability of the data.
§ 54.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
(a)
Compensation affected by the outcome of clinical studies
means compensation that could be higher for a favorable outcome than for an unfavorable outcome, such as compensation that is explicitly greater for a favorable result or compensation to the investigator in the form of an equity interest in the sponsor of a covered study or in the form of compensation tied to sales of the product, such as a royalty interest.
(b)
Significant equity interest in the sponsor of a covered study
means any ownership interest, stock options, or other financial interest whose value cannot be readily determined through reference to public prices (generally, interests in a nonpublicly traded corporation), or any equity interest in a publicly traded corporation that exceeds $50,000 during the time the clinical investigator is carrying out the study and for 1 year following completion of the study.
(c)
Proprietary interest in the tested product
means property or other financial interest in the product including, but not limited to, a patent, trademark, copyright or licensing agreement.
(d)
Clinical investigator
means only a listed or identified investigator or subinvestigator who is directly involved in the treatment or evaluation of research subjects. The term also includes
the spouse and each dependent child of the investigator.
(e)
Covered clinical study
means any study of a drug or device in humans submitted in a marketing application or reclassification petition subject to this part that the applicant or FDA relies on to establish that the product is effective (including studies that show equivalence to an effective product) or any study in which a single investigator makes a significant contribution to the demonstration of safety. This would, in general, not include phase l tolerance studies or pharmacokinetic studies, most clinical pharmacology studies (unless they are critical to an efficacy determination), large open safety studies conducted at multiple sites, treatment protocols, and parallel track protocols. An applicant may consult with FDA as to which clinical studies constitute “covered clinical studies” for purposes of complying with financial disclosure requirements.
(f)
Significant payments of other sorts
means payments made by the sponsor of a covered study to the investigator or the institution to support activities of the investigator that have a monetary value of more than $25,000, exclusive of the costs of conducting the clinical study or other clinical studies, (e.g., a grant to fund ongoing research, compensation in the form of equipment or retainers for ongoing consultation or honoraria) during the time the clinical investigator is carrying out the study and for 1 year following the completion of the study.
(g)
Applicant
means the party who submits a marketing application to FDA for approval of a drug, device, or biologic product. The applicant is responsible for submitting the appropriate certification and disclosure statements required in this part.
(h)
Sponsor of the covered clinical study
means the party supporting a particular study at the time it was carried out.
[63 FR 5250, Feb. 2, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 72181, Dec. 31, 1998]
§ 54.3
Scope.
The requirements in this part apply to any applicant who submits a marketing application for a human drug, biological product, or device and who submits covered clinical studies. The applicant is responsible for making the appropriate certification or disclosure statement where the applicant either contracted with one or more clinical investigators to conduct the studies or submitted studies conducted by others not under contract to the applicant.
§ 54.4
Certification and disclosure requirements.
For purposes of this part, an applicant must submit a list of all clinical investigators who conducted covered clinical studies to determine whether the applicant's product meets FDA's marketing requirements, identifying those clinical investigators who are full-time or part-time employees of the sponsor of each covered study. The applicant must also completely and accurately disclose or certify information concerning the financial interests of a clinical investigator who is not a full-time or part-time employee of the sponsor for each covered clinical study. Clinical investigators subject to investigational new drug or investigational device exemption regulations must provide the sponsor of the study with sufficient accurate information needed to allow subsequent disclosure or certification. The applicant is required to submit for each clinical investigator who participates in a covered study, either a certification that none of the financial arrangements described in § 54.2 exist, or disclose the nature of those arrangements to the agency. Where the applicant acts with due diligence to obtain the information required in this section but is unable to do so, the applicant shall certify that despite the applicant's due diligence in attempting to obtain the information, the applicant was unable to obtain the information and shall include the reason.
(a) The applicant (of an application submitted under sections 505, 506, 510(k), 513, or 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act) that relies in whole or in part on clinical studies shall submit, for each clinical investigator who participated in a covered clinical study, either a certification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a disclosure statement
described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(1) Certification: The applicant covered by this section shall submit for all clinical investigators (as defined in § 54.2(d)), to whom the certification applies, a completed Form FDA 3454 attesting to the absence of financial interests and arrangements described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The form shall be dated and signed by the chief financial officer or other responsible corporate official or representative.
(2) If the certification covers less than all covered clinical data in the application, the applicant shall include in the certification a list of the studies covered by this certification.
(3) Disclosure Statement: For any clinical investigator defined in § 54.2(d) for whom the applicant does not submit the certification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the applicant shall submit a completed Form FDA 3455 disclosing completely and accurately the following:
(i) Any financial arrangement entered into between the sponsor of the covered study and the clinical investigator involved in the conduct of a covered clinical trial, whereby the value of the compensation to the clinical investigator for conducting the study could be influenced by the outcome of the study;
(ii) Any significant payments of other sorts from the sponsor of the covered study, such as a grant to fund ongoing research, compensation in the form of equipment, retainer for ongoing consultation, or honoraria;
(iii) Any proprietary interest in the tested product held by any clinical investigator involved in a study;
(iv) Any significant equity interest in the sponsor of the covered study held by any clinical investigator involved in any clinical study; and
(v) Any steps taken to minimize the potential for bias resulting from any of the disclosed arrangements, interests, or payments.
(b) The clinical investigator shall provide to the sponsor of the covered study sufficient accurate financial information to allow the sponsor to submit complete and accurate certification or disclosure statements as required in paragraph (a) of this section. The investigator shall promptly update this information if any relevant changes occur in the course of the investigation or for 1 year following completion of the study.
(c) Refusal to file application. FDA may refuse to file any marketing application described in paragraph (a) of this section that does not contain the information required by this section or a certification by the applicant that the applicant has acted with due diligence to obtain the information but was unable to do so and stating the reason.
[63 FR 5250, Feb. 2, 1998; 63 FR 35134, June 29, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 54.5
Agency evaluation of financial interests.
(a)
Evaluation of disclosure statement.
FDA will evaluate the information disclosed under § 54.4(a)(2) about each covered clinical study in an application to determine the impact of any disclosed financial interests on the reliability of the study. FDA may consider both the size and nature of a disclosed financial interest (including the potential increase in the value of the interest if the product is approved) and steps that have been taken to minimize the potential for bias.
(b)
Effect of study design.
In assessing the potential of an investigator's financial interests to bias a study, FDA will take into account the design and purpose of the study. Study designs that utilize such approaches as multiple investigators (most of whom do not have a disclosable interest), blinding, objective endpoints, or measurement of endpoints by someone other than the investigator may adequately protect against any bias created by a disclosable financial interest.
(c)
Agency actions to ensure reliability of data.
If FDA determines that the financial interests of any clinical investigator raise a serious question about the integrity of the data, FDA will take any action it deems necessary to ensure the reliability of the data including:
(1) Initiating agency audits of the data derived from the clinical investigator in question;
(2) Requesting that the applicant submit further analyses of data, e.g., to evaluate the effect of the clinical investigator's data on overall study outcome;
(3) Requesting that the applicant conduct additional independent studies to confirm the results of the questioned study; and
(4) Refusing to treat the covered clinical study as providing data that can be the basis for an agency action.
§ 54.6
Recordkeeping and record retention.
(a)
Financial records of clinical investigators to be retained.
An applicant who has submitted a marketing application containing covered clinical studies shall keep on file certain information pertaining to the financial interests of clinical investigators who conducted studies on which the application relies and who are not full or part-time employees of the applicant, as follows:
(1) Complete records showing any financial interest or arrangement as described in § 54.4(a)(3)(i) paid to such clinical investigators by the sponsor of the covered study.
(2) Complete records showing significant payments of other sorts, as described in § 54.4(a)(3)(ii), made by the sponsor of the covered clinical study to the clinical investigator.
(3) Complete records showing any financial interests held by clinical investigators as set forth in § 54.4(a)(3)(iii) and (a)(3)(iv).
(b)
Requirements for maintenance of clinical investigators' financial records.
(1) For any application submitted for a covered product, an applicant shall retain records as described in paragraph (a) of this section for 2 years after the date of approval of the application.
(2) The person maintaining these records shall, upon request from any properly authorized officer or employee of FDA, at reasonable times, permit such officer or employee to have access to and copy and verify these records.
Pt. 56

# PART 56—INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
56.101
Scope.
56.102
Definitions.
56.103
Circumstances in which IRB review is required.
56.104
Exemptions from IRB requirement.
56.105
Waiver of IRB requirement.
56.106
Registration.

# Subpart B—Organization and Personnel
56.107
IRB membership.

# Subpart C—IRB Functions and Operations
56.108
IRB functions and operations.
56.109
IRB review of research.
56.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
56.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
56.112
Review by institution.
56.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
56.114
Cooperative research.

# Subpart D—Records and Reports
56.115
IRB records.

# Subpart E—Administrative Actions for Noncompliance
56.120
Lesser administrative actions.
56.121
Disqualification of an IRB or an institution.
56.122
Public disclosure of information regarding revocation.
56.123
Reinstatement of an IRB or an institution.
56.124
Actions alternative or additional to disqualification.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 343, 346, 346a, 348, 350a, 350b, 351, 352, 353, 355, 360, 360c-360f, 360h, 360i, 360j, 360hh-360ss, 371, 379e, 381; 42 U.S.C. 216, 241, 262.

# Source:
46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 56.101
Scope.
(a) This part contains the general standards for the composition, operation, and responsibility of an Institutional Review Board (IRB) that reviews clinical investigations regulated by the Food and Drug Administration under
sections 505(i) and 520(g) of the act, as well as clinical investigations that support applications for research or marketing permits for products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, including foods, including dietary supplements, that bear a nutrient content claim or a health claim, infant formulas, food and color additives, drugs for human use, medical devices for human use, biological products for human use, and electronic products. Compliance with this part is intended to protect the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in such investigations.
(b) References in this part to regulatory sections of the Code of Federal Regulations are to chapter I of title 21, unless otherwise noted.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 66 FR 20599, Apr. 24, 2001]
§ 56.102
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (secs. 201-902, 52 Stat. 1040
et seq.,
as amended (21 U.S.C. 321-392)).
(b)
Application for research or marketing permit
includes:
(1) A color additive petition, described in part 71.
(2) Data and information regarding a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing that a substance is generally recognized as safe for a use which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food, described in § 170.35.
(3) A food additive petition, described in part 171.
(4) Data and information regarding a food additive submitted as part of the procedures regarding food additives permitted to be used on an interim basis pending additional study, described in § 180.1.
(5) Data and information regarding a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing a tolerance for unavoidable contaminants in food and food-packaging materials, described in section 406 of the act.
(6) An investigational new drug application, described in part 312 of this chapter.
(7) A new drug application, described in part 314.
(8) Data and information regarding the bioavailability or bioequivalence of drugs for human use submitted as part of the procedures for issuing, amending, or repealing a bioequivalence requirement, described in part 320.
(9) Data and information regarding an over-the-counter drug for human use submitted as part of the procedures for classifying such drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, described in part 330.
(10) An application for a biologics license, described in part 601 of this chapter.
(11) Data and information regarding a biological product submitted as part of the procedures for determining that licensed biological products are safe and effective and not misbranded, as described in part 601 of this chapter.
(12) An Application for an Investigational Device Exemption, described in part 812.
(13) Data and information regarding a medical device for human use submitted as part of the procedures for classifying such devices, described in part 860.
(14) Data and information regarding a medical device for human use submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for such device, described in part 861.
(15) An application for premarket approval of a medical device for human use, described in section 515 of the act.
(16) A product development protocol for a medical device for human use, described in section 515 of the act.
(17) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for such products, described in section 358 of the Public Health Service Act.
(18) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for obtaining a variance from any electronic product performance standard, as described in § 1010.4.
(19) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for granting, amending, or extending an exemption from a radiation safety performance standard, as described in § 1010.5.
(20) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for obtaining an exemption from notification of a radiation safety defect or failure of compliance with a radiation safety performance standard, described in subpart D of part 1003.
(21) Data and information about a clinical study of an infant formula when submitted as part of an infant formula notification under section 412(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(22) Data and information submitted in a petition for a nutrient content claim, described in § 101.69 of this chapter, and for a health claim, described in § 101.70 of this chapter.
(23) Data and information from investigations involving children submitted in a new dietary ingredient notification, described in § 190.6 of this chapter.
(c)
Clinical investigation
means any experiment that involves a test article and one or more human subjects, and that either must meet the requirements for prior submission to the Food and Drug Administration under section 505(i) or 520(g) of the act, or need not meet the requirements for prior submission to the Food and Drug Administration under these sections of the act, but the results of which are intended to be later submitted to, or held for inspection by, the Food and Drug Administration as part of an application for a research or marketing permit. The term does not include experiments that must meet the provisions of part 58, regarding nonclinical laboratory studies. The terms
research, clinical research, clinical study, study,
and
clinical investigation
are deemed to be synonymous for purposes of this part.
(d)
Emergency use
means the use of a test article on a human subject in a life-threatening situation in which no standard acceptable treatment is available, and in which there is not sufficient time to obtain IRB approval.
(e)
Human subject
means an individual who is or becomes a participant in research, either as a recipient of the test article or as a control. A subject may be either a healthy individual or a patient.
(f)
Institution
means any public or private entity or agency (including Federal, State, and other agencies). The term
facility
as used in section 520(g) of the act is deemed to be synonymous with the term
institution
for purposes of this part.
(g)
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
means any board, committee, or other group formally designated by an institution to review, to approve the initiation of, and to conduct periodic review of, biomedical research involving human subjects. The primary purpose of such review is to assure the protection of the rights and welfare of the human subjects. The term has the same meaning as the phrase
institutional review committee
as used in section 520(g) of the act.
(h)
Investigator
means an individual who actually conducts a clinical investigation (i.e., under whose immediate direction the test article is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, a subject) or, in the event of an investigation conducted by a team of individuals, is the responsible leader of that team.
(i)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(j)
Sponsor
means a person or other entity that initiates a clinical investigation, but that does not actually conduct the investigation, i.e., the test article is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, a subject under the immediate direction of another individual. A person other than an individual (e.g., a corporation or agency) that uses one or more of its own employees to conduct an investigation that it has initiated is considered to be a sponsor (not a sponsor-investigator), and the employees are considered to be investigators.
(k)
Sponsor-investigator
means an individual who both initiates and actually conducts, alone or with others, a
clinical investigation, i.e., under whose immediate direction the test article is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, a subject. The term does not include any person other than an individual, e.g., it does not include a corporation or agency. The obligations of a sponsor-investigator under this part include both those of a sponsor and those of an investigator.
(l)
Test article
means any drug for human use, biological product for human use, medical device for human use, human food additive, color additive, electronic product, or any other article subject to regulation under the act or under sections 351 or 354-360F of the Public Health Service Act.
(m)
IRB approval
means the determination of the IRB that the clinical investigation has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and Federal requirements.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 9038, Mar. 3, 1989; 56 FR 28028, June 18, 1991; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999; 64 FR 56448, Oct. 20, 1999; 65 FR 52302, Aug. 29, 2000; 66 FR 20599, Apr. 24, 2001; 74 FR 2368, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 56.103
Circumstances in which IRB review is required.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 56.104 and 56.105, any clinical investigation which must meet the requirements for prior submission (as required in parts 312, 812, and 813) to the Food and Drug Administration shall not be initiated unless that investigation has been reviewed and approved by, and remains subject to continuing review by, an IRB meeting the requirements of this part.
(b) Except as provided in §§ 56.104 and 56.105, the Food and Drug Administration may decide not to consider in support of an application for a research or marketing permit any data or information that has been derived from a clinical investigation that has not been approved by, and that was not subject to initial and continuing review by, an IRB meeting the requirements of this part. The determination that a clinical investigation may not be considered in support of an application for a research or marketing permit does not, however, relieve the applicant for such a permit of any obligation under any other applicable regulations to submit the results of the investigation to the Food and Drug Administration.
(c) Compliance with these regulations will in no way render inapplicable pertinent Federal, State, or local laws or regulations.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981; 46 FR 14340, Feb. 27, 1981]
§ 56.104
Exemptions from IRB requirement.
The following categories of clinical investigations are exempt from the requirements of this part for IRB review:
(a) Any investigation which commenced before July 27, 1981 and was subject to requirements for IRB review under FDA regulations before that date, provided that the investigation remains subject to review of an IRB which meets the FDA requirements in effect before July 27, 1981.
(b) Any investigation commenced before July 27, 1981 and was not otherwise subject to requirements for IRB review under Food and Drug Administration regulations before that date.
(c) Emergency use of a test article, provided that such emergency use is reported to the IRB within 5 working days. Any subsequent use of the test article at the institution is subject to IRB review.
(d) Taste and food quality evaluations and consumer acceptance studies, if wholesome foods without additives are consumed or if a food is consumed that contains a food ingredient at or below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural, chemical, or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28028, June 18, 1991]
§ 56.105
Waiver of IRB requirement.
On the application of a sponsor or sponsor-investigator, the Food and Drug Administration may waive any of the requirements contained in these
regulations, including the requirements for IRB review, for specific research activities or for classes of research activities, otherwise covered by these regulations.

# Subpart B—Organization and Personnel
§ 56.106
Registration.
(a)
Who must register?
Each IRB in the United States that reviews clinical investigations regulated by FDA under sections 505(i) or 520(g) of the act and each IRB in the United States that reviews clinical investigations that are intended to support applications for research or marketing permits for FDA-regulated products must register at a site maintained by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). (A research permit under section 505(i) of the act is usually known as an investigational new drug application (IND), while a research permit under section 520(g) of the act is usually known as an investigational device exemption (IDE).) An individual authorized to act on the IRB's behalf must submit the registration information. All other IRBs may register voluntarily.
(b)
What information must an IRB register?
Each IRB must provide the following information:
(1) The name, mailing address, and street address (if different from the mailing address) of the institution operating the IRB and the name, mailing address, phone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail address of the senior officer of that institution who is responsible for overseeing activities performed by the IRB;
(2) The IRB's name, mailing address, street address (if different from the mailing address), phone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail address; each IRB chairperson's name, phone number, and electronic mail address; and the name, mailing address, phone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail address of the contact person providing the registration information.
(3) The approximate number of active protocols involving FDA-regulated products reviewed. For purposes of this rule, an “active protocol” is any protocol for which an IRB conducted an initial review or a continuing review at a convened meeting or under an expedited review procedure during the preceding 12 months; and
(4) A description of the types of FDA-regulated products (such as biological products, color additives, food additives, human drugs, or medical devices) involved in the protocols that the IRB reviews.
(c)
When must an IRB register?
Each IRB must submit an initial registration. The initial registration must occur before the IRB begins to review a clinical investigation described in paragraph (a) of this section. Each IRB must renew its registration every 3 years. IRB registration becomes effective after review and acceptance by HHS.
(d)
Where can an IRB register?
Each IRB may register electronically through
http://ohrp.cit.nih.gov/efile.
If an IRB lacks the ability to register electronically, it must send its registration information, in writing, to the Office of Good Clinical Practice, Office of Special Medical Programs, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, Rm. 5129, Silver Spring, MD 20993.
(e)
How does an IRB revise its registration information?
If an IRB's contact or chair person information changes, the IRB must revise its registration information by submitting any changes in that information within 90 days of the change. An IRB's decision to review new types of FDA-regulated products (such as a decision to review studies pertaining to food additives whereas the IRB previously reviewed studies pertaining to drug products), or to discontinue reviewing clinical investigations regulated by FDA is a change that must be reported within 30 days of the change. An IRB's decision to disband is a change that must be reported within 30 days of permanent cessation of the IRB's review of research. All other information changes may be reported when the IRB renews its registration. The revised information must be sent to FDA either electronically or in writing in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
[74 FR 2368, Jan. 15, 2009, as amended at 78 FR 16401, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 56.107
IRB membership.
(a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified through the experience and expertise of its members, and the diversity of the members, including consideration of race, gender, cultural backgrounds, and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects. In addition to possessing the professional competence necessary to review the specific research activities, the IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in terms of institutional commitments and regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and practice. * * * The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a vulnerable category of subjects, such as children, prisoners, pregnant women, or handicapped or mentally disabled persons, consideration shall be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about and experienced in working with those subjects.
(b) Every nondiscriminatory effort will be made to ensure that no IRB consists entirely of men or entirely of women, including the instituton's consideration of qualified persons of both sexes, so long as no selection is made to the IRB on the basis of gender. No IRB may consist entirely of members of one profession.
(c) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns are in the scientific area and at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas.
(d) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.
(e) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.
(f) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence in special areas to assist in the review of complex issues which require expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the IRB. These individuals may not vote with the IRB.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28028, June 18, 1991; 56 FR 29756, June 28, 1991; 78 FR 16401, Mar. 15, 2013]

# Subpart C—IRB Functions and Operations
§ 56.108
IRB functions and operations.
In order to fulfill the requirements of these regulations, each IRB shall:
(a) Follow written procedures: (1) For conducting its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its findings and actions to the investigator and the institution; (2) for determining which projects require review more often than annually and which projects need verification from sources other than the investigator that no material changes have occurred since previous IRB review; (3) for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB of changes in research activity; and (4) for ensuring that changes in approved research, during the period for which IRB approval has already been given, may not be initiated without IRB review and approval except where necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the human subjects.
(b) Follow written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB, appropriate institutional officials, and the Food and Drug Administration of: (1) Any unanticipated problems involving risks to human subjects or others; (2) any instance of serious or continuing noncompliance with these regulations or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; or (3) any suspension or termination of IRB approval.
(c) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (see § 56.110), review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research to be approved,
it shall receive the approval of a majority of those members present at the meeting.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28028, June 18, 1991; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 56.109
IRB review of research.
(a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research activities covered by these regulations.
(b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects as part of informed consent is in accordance with § 50.25. The IRB may require that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in § 50.25, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and welfare of subjects.
(c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent in accordance with § 50.27 of this chapter, except as follows:
(1) The IRB may, for some or all subjects, waive the requirement that the subject, or the subject's legally authorized representative, sign a written consent form if it finds that the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally required outside the research context; or
(2) The IRB may, for some or all subjects, find that the requirements in § 50.24 of this chapter for an exception from informed consent for emergency research are met.
(d) In cases where the documentation requirement is waived under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the IRB may require the investigator to provide subjects with a written statement regarding the research.
(e) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity, or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the investigator an opportunity to respond in person or in writing. For investigations involving an exception to informed consent under § 50.24 of this chapter, an IRB shall promptly notify in writing the investigator and the sponsor of the research when an IRB determines that it cannot approve the research because it does not meet the criteria in the exception provided under § 50.24(a) of this chapter or because of other relevant ethical concerns. The written notification shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's determination.
(f) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research covered by these regulations at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, but not less than once per year, and shall have authority to observe or have a third party observe the consent process and the research.
(g) An IRB shall provide in writing to the sponsor of research involving an exception to informed consent under § 50.24 of this chapter a copy of information that has been publicly disclosed under § 50.24(a)(7)(ii) and (a)(7)(iii) of this chapter. The IRB shall provide this information to the sponsor promptly so that the sponsor is aware that such disclosure has occurred. Upon receipt, the sponsor shall provide copies of the information disclosed to FDA.
(h) When some or all of the subjects in a study are children, an IRB must determine that the research study is in compliance with part 50, subpart D of this chapter, at the time of its initial review of the research. When some or all of the subjects in a study that was ongoing on April 30, 2001, are children, an IRB must conduct a review of the research to determine compliance with part 50, subpart D of this chapter, either at the time of continuing review or, at the discretion of the IRB, at an earlier date.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 61 FR 51529, Oct. 2, 1996; 66 FR 20599, Apr. 24, 2001; 78 FR 12951, Feb. 26, 2013]
§ 56.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
(a) The Food and Drug Administration has established, and published in
the
Federal Register,
a list of categories of research that may be reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The list will be amended, as appropriate, through periodic republication in the
Federal Register.
(b) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review either or both of the following: (1) Some or all of the research appearing on the list and found by the reviewer(s) to involve no more than minimal risk, (2) minor changes in previously approved research during the period (of 1 year or less) for which approval is authorized. Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated by the IRB chairperson from among the members of the IRB. In reviewing the research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the nonexpedited review procedure set forth in § 56.108(c).
(c) Each IRB which uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a method for keeping all members advised of research proposals which have been approved under the procedure.
(d) The Food and Drug Administration may restrict, suspend, or terminate an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited review procedure when necessary to protect the rights or welfare of subjects.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28029, June 18, 1991]
§ 56.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
(a) In order to approve research covered by these regulations the IRB shall determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) Risks to subjects are minimized: (i) By using procedures which are consistent with sound research design and which do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and (ii) whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
(2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may be expected to result. In evaluating risks and benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and benefits of therapies that subjects would receive even if not participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible long-range effects of applying knowledge gained in the research (for example, the possible effects of the research on public policy) as among those research risks that fall within the purview of its responsibility.
(3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and the setting in which the research will be conducted and should be particularly cognizant of the special problems of research involving vulnerable populations, such as children, prisoners, pregnant women, handicapped, or mentally disabled persons, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons.
(4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with and to the extent required by part 50.
(5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented, in accordance with and to the extent required by § 50.27.
(6) Where appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.
(7) Where appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(b) When some or all of the subjects, such as children, prisoners, pregnant women, handicapped, or mentally disabled persons, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, are likely to be vulnerable to coercion or undue influence additional safeguards have been included in the study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.
(c) In order to approve research in which some or all of the subjects are children, an IRB must determine that
all research is in compliance with part 50, subpart D of this chapter.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28029, June 18, 1991; 66 FR 20599, Apr. 24, 2001]
§ 56.112
Review by institution.
Research covered by these regulations that has been approved by an IRB may be subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.
§ 56.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Any suspension or termination of approval shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and the Food and Drug Administration.
§ 56.114
Cooperative research.
In complying with these regulations, institutions involved in multi-institutional studies may use joint review, reliance upon the review of another qualified IRB, or similar arrangements aimed at avoidance of duplication of effort.

# Subpart D—Records and Reports
§ 56.115
IRB records.
(a) An institution, or where appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the following:
(1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific evaluations, if any, that accompany the proposals, approved sample consent documents, progress reports submitted by investigators, and reports of injuries to subjects.
(2) Minutes of IRB meetings which shall be in sufficient detail to show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote on these actions including the number of members voting for, against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of controverted issues and their resolution.
(3) Records of continuing review activities.
(4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the investigators.
(5) A list of IRB members identified by name; earned degrees; representative capacity; indications of experience such as board certifications, licenses, etc., sufficient to describe each member's chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any employment or other relationship between each member and the institution; for example: full-time employee, part-time employee, a member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid consultant.
(6) Written procedures for the IRB as required by § 56.108 (a) and (b).
(7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as required by § 50.25.
(b) The records required by this regulation shall be retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research, and the records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized representatives of the Food and Drug Administration at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration may refuse to consider a clinical investigation in support of an application for a research or marketing permit if the institution or the IRB that reviewed the investigation refuses to allow an inspection under this section.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 28029, June 18, 1991; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]

# Subpart E—Administrative Actions for Noncompliance
§ 56.120
Lesser administrative actions.
(a) If apparent noncompliance with these regulations in the operation of an IRB is observed by an FDA investigator during an inspection, the inspector will present an oral or written summary of observations to an appropriate representative of the IRB. The Food
and Drug Administration may subsequently send a letter describing the noncompliance to the IRB and to the parent institution. The agency will require that the IRB or the parent institution respond to this letter within a time period specified by FDA and describe the corrective actions that will be taken by the IRB, the institution, or both to achieve compliance with these regulations.
(b) On the basis of the IRB's or the institution's response, FDA may schedule a reinspection to confirm the adequacy of corrective actions. In addition, until the IRB or the parent institution takes appropriate corrective action, the Agency may require the IRB to:
(1) Withhold approval of new studies subject to the requirements of this part that are conducted at the institution or reviewed by the IRB;
(2) Direct that no new subjects be added to ongoing studies subject to this part; or
(3) Terminate ongoing studies subject to this part when doing so would not endanger the subjects.
(c) When the apparent noncompliance creates a significant threat to the rights and welfare of human subjects, FDA may notify relevant State and Federal regulatory agencies and other parties with a direct interest in the Agency's action of the deficiencies in the operation of the IRB.
(d) The parent institution is presumed to be responsible for the operation of an IRB, and the Food and Drug Administration will ordinarily direct any administrative action under this subpart against the institution. However, depending on the evidence of responsibility for deficiencies, determined during the investigation, the Food and Drug Administration may restrict its administrative actions to the IRB or to a component of the parent institution determined to be responsible for formal designation of the IRB.
[46 FR 8975, Jan. 27, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 19035, Apr. 4, 2016]
§ 56.121
Disqualification of an IRB or an institution.
(a) Whenever the IRB or the institution has failed to take adequate steps to correct the noncompliance stated in the letter sent by the agency under § 56.120(a), and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs determines that this noncompliance may justify the disqualification of the IRB or of the parent institution, the Commissioner will institute proceedings in accordance with the requirements for a regulatory hearing set forth in part 16.
(b) The Commissioner may disqualify an IRB or the parent institution if the Commissioner determines that:
(1) The IRB has refused or repeatedly failed to comply with any of the regulations set forth in this part, and
(2) The noncompliance adversely affects the rights or welfare of the human subjects in a clinical investigation.
(c) If the Commissioner determines that disqualification is appropriate, the Commissioner will issue an order that explains the basis for the determination and that prescribes any actions to be taken with regard to ongoing clinical research conducted under the review of the IRB. The Food and Drug Administration will send notice of the disqualification to the IRB and the parent institution. Other parties with a direct interest, such as sponsors and clinical investigators, may also be sent a notice of the disqualification. In addition, the agency may elect to publish a notice of its action in the
Federal Register.
(d) The Food and Drug Administration will not approve an application for a research permit for a clinical investigation that is to be under the review of a disqualified IRB or that is to be conducted at a disqualified institution, and it may refuse to consider in support of a marketing permit the data from a clinical investigation that was reviewed by a disqualified IRB as conducted at a disqualified institution, unless the IRB or the parent institution is reinstated as provided in § 56.123.
§ 56.122
Public disclosure of information regarding revocation.
A determination that the Food and Drug Administration has disqualified an institution and the administrative record regarding that determination are disclosable to the public under part 20.
§ 56.123
Reinstatement of an IRB or an institution.
An IRB or an institution may be reinstated if the Commissioner determines, upon an evaluation of a written submission from the IRB or institution that explains the corrective action that the institution or IRB plans to take, that the IRB or institution has provided adequate assurance that it will operate in compliance with the standards set forth in this part. Notification of reinstatement shall be provided to all persons notified under § 56.121(c).
§ 56.124
Actions alternative or additional to disqualification.
Disqualification of an IRB or of an institution is independent of, and neither in lieu of nor a precondition to, other proceedings or actions authorized by the act. The Food and Drug Administration may, at any time, through the Department of Justice institute any appropriate judicial proceedings (civil or criminal) and any other appropriate regulatory action, in addition to or in lieu of, and before, at the time of, or after, disqualification. The agency may also refer pertinent matters to another Federal, State, or local government agency for any action that that agency determines to be appropriate.
Pt. 58

# PART 58—GOOD LABORATORY PRACTICE FOR NONCLINICAL LABORATORY STUDIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
58.1
Scope.
58.3
Definitions.
58.10
Applicability to studies performed under grants and contracts.
58.15
Inspection of a testing facility.

# Subpart B—Organization and Personnel
58.29
Personnel.
58.31
Testing facility management.
58.33
Study director.
58.35
Quality assurance unit.

# Subpart C—Facilities
58.41
General.
58.43
Animal care facilities.
58.45
Animal supply facilities.
58.47
Facilities for handling test and control articles.
58.49
Laboratory operation areas.
58.51
Specimen and data storage facilities.

# Subpart D—Equipment
58.61
Equipment design.
58.63
Maintenance and calibration of equipment.

# Subpart E—Testing Facilities Operation
58.81
Standard operating procedures.
58.83
Reagents and solutions.
58.90
Animal care.

# Subpart F—Test and Control Articles
58.105
Test and control article characterization.
58.107
Test and control article handling.
58.113
Mixture of articles with carriers.

# Subpart G—Protocol for and Conduct of a Nonclinical Laboratory Study
58.120
Protocol.
58.130
Conduct of a nonclinical laboratory study.
Subparts H-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Records and Reports
58.185
Reporting of nonclinical laboratory study results.
58.190
Storage and retrieval of records and data.
58.195
Retention of records.

# Subpart K—Disqualification of Testing Facilities
58.200
Purpose.
58.202
Grounds for disqualification.
58.204
Notice of and opportunity for hearing on proposed disqualification.
58.206
Final order on disqualification.
58.210
Actions upon disqualification.
58.213
Public disclosure of information regarding disqualification.
58.215
Alternative or additional actions to disqualification.
58.217
Suspension or termination of a testing facility by a sponsor.
58.219
Reinstatement of a disqualified testing facility.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 342, 346, 346a, 348, 351, 352, 353, 355, 360, 360b-360f, 360h-360j, 371, 379e, 381; 42 U.S.C. 216, 262, 263b-263n.

# Source:
43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 58.1
Scope.
(a) This part prescribes good laboratory practices for conducting nonclinical laboratory studies that support or are intended to support applications for research or marketing permits for products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, including food and color additives, animal food additives, human and animal drugs, medical devices for human use, biological products, and electronic products. Compliance with this part is intended to assure the quality and integrity of the safety data filed pursuant to sections 406, 408, 409, 502, 503, 505, 506, 510, 512-516, 518-520, 721, and 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and sections 351 and 354-360F of the Public Health Service Act.
(b) References in this part to regulatory sections of the Code of Federal Regulations are to chapter I of title 21, unless otherwise noted.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33779, Sept. 4, 1987; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 58.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:
(a)
Act
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (secs. 201-902, 52 Stat. 1040
et seq.,
as amended (21 U.S.C. 321-392)).
(b)
Test article
means any food additive, color additive, drug, biological product, electronic product, medical device for human use, or any other article subject to regulation under the act or under sections 351 and 354-360F of the Public Health Service Act.
(c)
Control article
means any food additive, color additive, drug, biological product, electronic product, medical device for human use, or any article other than a test article, feed, or water that is administered to the test system in the course of a nonclinical laboratory study for the purpose of establishing a basis for comparison with the test article.
(d)
Nonclinical laboratory study
means in vivo or in vitro experiments in which test articles are studied prospectively in test systems under laboratory conditions to determine their safety. The term does not include studies utilizing human subjects or clinical studies or field trials in animals. The term does not include basic exploratory studies carried out to determine whether a test article has any potential utility or to determine physical or chemical characteristics of a test article.
(e)
Application for research or marketing permit
includes:
(1) A color additive petition, described in part 71.
(2) A food additive petition, described in parts 171 and 571.
(3) Data and information regarding a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing that a substance is generally recognized as safe for use, which use results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food, described in §§ 170.35 and 570.35.
(4) Data and information regarding a food additive submitted as part of the procedures regarding food additives permitted to be used on an interim basis pending additional study, described in § 180.1.
(5) An
investigational new drug application,
described in part 312 of this chapter.
(6) A
new drug application,
described in part 314.
(7) Data and information regarding an over-the-counter drug for human use, submitted as part of the procedures for classifying such drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, described in part 330.
(8) Data and information about a substance submitted as part of the procedures for establishing a tolerance for unavoidable contaminants in food and food-packaging materials, described in parts 109 and 509.
(9) [Reserved]
(10) A
Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Animal Drug,
described in part 511.
(11) A
new animal drug application,
described in part 514.
(12) [Reserved]
(13) An
application for a biologics license,
described in part 601 of this chapter.
(14) An
application for an investigational device exemption,
described in part 812.
(15) An
Application for Premarket Approval of a Medical Device,
described in section 515 of the act.
(16) A
Product Development Protocol for a Medical Device,
described in section 515 of the act.
(17) Data and information regarding a medical device submitted as part of the procedures for classifying such devices, described in part 860.
(18) Data and information regarding a medical device submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a performance standard for such devices, described in part 861.
(19) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for obtaining an exemption from notification of a radiation safety defect or failure of compliance with a radiation safety performance standard, described in subpart D of part 1003.
(20) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for establishing, amending, or repealing a standard for such product, described in section 358 of the Public Health Service Act.
(21) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for obtaining a variance from any electronic product performance standard as described in § 1010.4.
(22) Data and information regarding an electronic product submitted as part of the procedures for granting, amending, or extending an exemption from any electronic product performance standard, as described in § 1010.5.
(23) A premarket notification for a food contact substance, described in part 170, subpart D, of this chapter.
(f)
Sponsor
means:
(1) A person who initiates and supports, by provision of financial or other resources, a nonclinical laboratory study;
(2) A person who submits a nonclinical study to the Food and Drug Administration in support of an application for a research or marketing permit; or
(3) A testing facility, if it both initiates and actually conducts the study.
(g)
Testing facility
means a person who actually conducts a nonclinical laboratory study, i.e., actually uses the test article in a test system.
Testing facility
includes any establishment required to register under section 510 of the act that conducts nonclinical laboratory studies and any consulting laboratory described in section 704 of the act that conducts such studies.
Testing facility
encompasses only those operational units that are being or have been used to conduct nonclinical laboratory studies.
(h)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, scientific or academic establishment, government agency, or organizational unit thereof, and any other legal entity.
(i)
Test system
means any animal, plant, microorganism, or subparts thereof to which the test or control article is administered or added for study.
Test system
also includes appropriate groups or components of the system not treated with the test or control articles.
(j)
Specimen
means any material derived from a test system for examination or analysis.
(k)
Raw data
means any laboratory worksheets, records, memoranda, notes, or exact copies thereof, that are the result of original observations and activities of a nonclinical laboratory study and are necessary for the reconstruction and evaluation of the report of that study. In the event that exact transcripts of raw data have been prepared (e.g., tapes which have been transcribed verbatim, dated, and verified accurate by signature), the exact copy or exact transcript may be substituted for the original source as raw data.
Raw data
may include photographs, microfilm or microfiche copies, computer printouts, magnetic media, including dictated observations, and recorded data from automated instruments.
(l)
Quality assurance unit
means any person or organizational element, except the study director, designated by
testing facility management to perform the duties relating to quality assurance of nonclinical laboratory studies.
(m)
Study director
means the individual responsible for the overall conduct of a nonclinical laboratory study.
(n)
Batch
means a specific quantity or lot of a test or control article that has been characterized according to § 58.105(a).
(o)
Study initiation date
means the date the protocol is signed by the study director.
(p)
Study completion date
means the date the final report is signed by the study director.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33779, Sept. 4, 1987; 54 FR 9039, Mar. 3, 1989; 64 FR 56448, Oct. 20, 1999; 67 FR 35729, May 21, 2002]
§ 58.10
Applicability to studies performed under grants and contracts.
When a sponsor conducting a nonclinical laboratory study intended to be submitted to or reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration utilizes the services of a consulting laboratory, contractor, or grantee to perform an analysis or other service, it shall notify the consulting laboratory, contractor, or grantee that the service is part of a nonclinical laboratory study that must be conducted in compliance with the provisions of this part.
§ 58.15
Inspection of a testing facility.
(a) A testing facility shall permit an authorized employee of the Food and Drug Administration, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, to inspect the facility and to inspect (and in the case of records also to copy) all records and specimens required to be maintained regarding studies within the scope of this part. The records inspection and copying requirements shall not apply to quality assurance unit records of findings and problems, or to actions recommended and taken.
(b) The Food and Drug Administration will not consider a nonclinical laboratory study in support of an application for a research or marketing permit if the testing facility refuses to permit inspection. The determination that a nonclinical laboratory study will not be considered in support of an application for a research or marketing permit does not, however, relieve the applicant for such a permit of any obligation under any applicable statute or regulation to submit the results of the study to the Food and Drug Administration.

# Subpart B—Organization and Personnel
§ 58.29
Personnel.
(a) Each individual engaged in the conduct of or responsible for the supervision of a nonclinical laboratory study shall have education, training, and experience, or combination thereof, to enable that individual to perform the assigned functions.
(b) Each testing facility shall maintain a current summary of training and experience and job description for each individual engaged in or supervising the conduct of a nonclinical laboratory study.
(c) There shall be a sufficient number of personnel for the timely and proper conduct of the study according to the protocol.
(d) Personnel shall take necessary personal sanitation and health precautions designed to avoid contamination of test and control articles and test systems.
(e) Personnel engaged in a nonclinical laboratory study shall wear clothing appropriate for the duties they perform. Such clothing shall be changed as often as necessary to prevent microbiological, radiological, or chemical contamination of test systems and test and control articles.
(f) Any individual found at any time to have an illness that may adversely affect the quality and integrity of the nonclinical laboratory study shall be excluded from direct contact with test systems, test and control articles and any other operation or function that may adversely affect the study until the condition is corrected. All personnel shall be instructed to report to their immediate supervisors any health or medical conditions that may reasonably be considered to have an adverse effect on a nonclinical laboratory study.
§ 58.31
Testing facility management.
For each nonclinical laboratory study, testing facility management shall:
(a) Designate a study director as described in § 58.33, before the study is initiated.
(b) Replace the study director promptly if it becomes necessary to do so during the conduct of a study.
(c) Assure that there is a quality assurance unit as described in § 58.35.
(d) Assure that test and control articles or mixtures have been appropriately tested for identity, strength, purity, stability, and uniformity, as applicable.
(e) Assure that personnel, resources, facilities, equipment, materials, and methodologies are available as scheduled.
(f) Assure that personnel clearly understand the functions they are to perform.
(g) Assure that any deviations from these regulations reported by the quality assurance unit are communicated to the study director and corrective actions are taken and documented.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.33
Study director.
For each nonclinical laboratory study, a scientist or other professional of appropriate education, training, and experience, or combination thereof, shall be identified as the study director. The study director has overall responsibility for the technical conduct of the study, as well as for the interpretation, analysis, documentation and reporting of results, and represents the single point of study control. The study director shall assure that:
(a) The protocol, including any change, is approved as provided by § 58.120 and is followed.
(b) All experimental data, including observations of unanticipated responses of the test system are accurately recorded and verified.
(c) Unforeseen circumstances that may affect the quality and integrity of the nonclinical laboratory study are noted when they occur, and corrective action is taken and documented.
(d) Test systems are as specified in the protocol.
(e) All applicable good laboratory practice regulations are followed.
(f) All raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens, and final reports are transferred to the archives during or at the close of the study.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978; 44 FR 17657, Mar. 23, 1979]
§ 58.35
Quality assurance unit.
(a) A testing facility shall have a quality assurance unit which shall be responsible for monitoring each study to assure management that the facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are in conformance with the regulations in this part. For any given study, the quality assurance unit shall be entirely separate from and independent of the personnel engaged in the direction and conduct of that study.
(b) The quality assurance unit shall:
(1) Maintain a copy of a master schedule sheet of all nonclinical laboratory studies conducted at the testing facility indexed by test article and containing the test system, nature of study, date study was initiated, current status of each study, identity of the sponsor, and name of the study director.
(2) Maintain copies of all protocols pertaining to all nonclinical laboratory studies for which the unit is responsible.
(3) Inspect each nonclinical laboratory study at intervals adequate to assure the integrity of the study and maintain written and properly signed records of each periodic inspection showing the date of the inspection, the study inspected, the phase or segment of the study inspected, the person performing the inspection, findings and problems, action recommended and taken to resolve existing problems, and any scheduled date for reinspection. Any problems found during the course of an inspection which are likely to affect study integrity shall be brought to the attention of the study director and management immediately.
(4) Periodically submit to management and the study director written status reports on each study, noting
any problems and the corrective actions taken.
(5) Determine that no deviations from approved protocols or standard operating procedures were made without proper authorization and documentation.
(6) Review the final study report to assure that such report accurately describes the methods and standard operating procedures, and that the reported results accurately reflect the raw data of the nonclinical laboratory study.
(7) Prepare and sign a statement to be included with the final study report which shall specify the dates inspections were made and findings reported to management and to the study director.
(c) The responsibilities and procedures applicable to the quality assurance unit, the records maintained by the quality assurance unit, and the method of indexing such records shall be in writing and shall be maintained. These items including inspection dates, the study inspected, the phase or segment of the study inspected, and the name of the individual performing the inspection shall be made available for inspection to authorized employees of the Food and Drug Administration.
(d) A designated representative of the Food and Drug Administration shall have access to the written procedures established for the inspection and may request testing facility management to certify that inspections are being implemented, performed, documented, and followed-up in accordance with this paragraph.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]

# Subpart C—Facilities
§ 58.41
General.
Each testing facility shall be of suitable size and construction to facilitate the proper conduct of nonclinical laboratory studies. It shall be designed so that there is a degree of separation that will prevent any function or activity from having an adverse effect on the study.
[52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.43
Animal care facilities.
(a) A testing facility shall have a sufficient number of animal rooms or areas, as needed, to assure proper: (1) Separation of species or test systems, (2) isolation of individual projects, (3) quarantine of animals, and (4) routine or specialized housing of animals.
(b) A testing facility shall have a number of animal rooms or areas separate from those described in paragraph (a) of this section to ensure isolation of studies being done with test systems or test and control articles known to be biohazardous, including volatile substances, aerosols, radioactive materials, and infectious agents.
(c) Separate areas shall be provided, as appropriate, for the diagnosis, treatment, and control of laboratory animal diseases. These areas shall provide effective isolation for the housing of animals either known or suspected of being diseased, or of being carriers of disease, from other animals.
(d) When animals are housed, facilities shall exist for the collection and disposal of all animal waste and refuse or for safe sanitary storage of waste before removal from the testing facility. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, disease hazards, and environmental contamination.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.45
Animal supply facilities.
There shall be storage areas, as needed, for feed, bedding, supplies, and equipment. Storage areas for feed and bedding shall be separated from areas housing the test systems and shall be protected against infestation or contamination. Perishable supplies shall be preserved by appropriate means.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.47
Facilities for handling test and control articles.
(a) As necessary to prevent contamination or mixups, there shall be separate areas for:
(1) Receipt and storage of the test and control articles.
(2) Mixing of the test and control articles with a carrier, e.g., feed.
(3) Storage of the test and control article mixtures.
(b) Storage areas for the test and/or control article and test and control mixtures shall be separate from areas housing the test systems and shall be adequate to preserve the identity, strength, purity, and stability of the articles and mixtures.
§ 58.49
Laboratory operation areas.
Separate laboratory space shall be provided, as needed, for the performance of the routine and specialized procedures required by nonclinical laboratory studies.
[52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.51
Specimen and data storage facilities.
Space shall be provided for archives, limited to access by authorized personnel only, for the storage and retrieval of all raw data and specimens from completed studies.

# Subpart D—Equipment
§ 58.61
Equipment design.
Equipment used in the generation, measurement, or assessment of data and equipment used for facility environmental control shall be of appropriate design and adequate capacity to function according to the protocol and shall be suitably located for operation, inspection, cleaning, and maintenance.
[52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.63
Maintenance and calibration of equipment.
(a) Equipment shall be adequately inspected, cleaned, and maintained. Equipment used for the generation, measurement, or assessment of data shall be adequately tested, calibrated and/or standardized.
(b) The written standard operating procedures required under § 58.81(b)(11) shall set forth in sufficient detail the methods, materials, and schedules to be used in the routine inspection, cleaning, maintenance, testing, calibration, and/or standardization of equipment, and shall specify, when appropriate, remedial action to be taken in the event of failure or malfunction of equipment. The written standard operating procedures shall designate the person responsible for the performance of each operation.
(c) Written records shall be maintained of all inspection, maintenance, testing, calibrating and/or standardizing operations. These records, containing the date of the operation, shall describe whether the maintenance operations were routine and followed the written standard operating procedures. Written records shall be kept of nonroutine repairs performed on equipment as a result of failure and malfunction. Such records shall document the nature of the defect, how and when the defect was discovered, and any remedial action taken in response to the defect.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]

# Subpart E—Testing Facilities Operation
§ 58.81
Standard operating procedures.
(a) A testing facility shall have standard operating procedures in writing setting forth nonclinical laboratory study methods that management is satisfied are adequate to insure the quality and integrity of the data generated in the course of a study. All deviations in a study from standard operating procedures shall be authorized by the study director and shall be documented in the raw data. Significant changes in established standard operating procedures shall be properly authorized in writing by management.
(b) Standard operating procedures shall be established for, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Animal room preparation.
(2) Animal care.
(3) Receipt, identification, storage, handling, mixing, and method of sampling of the test and control articles.
(4) Test system observations.
(5) Laboratory tests.
(6) Handling of animals found moribund or dead during study.
(7) Necropsy of animals or postmortem examination of animals.
(8) Collection and identification of specimens.
(9) Histopathology.
(10) Data handling, storage, and retrieval.
(11) Maintenance and calibration of equipment.
(12) Transfer, proper placement, and identification of animals.
(c) Each laboratory area shall have immediately available laboratory manuals and standard operating procedures relative to the laboratory procedures being performed. Published literature may be used as a supplement to standard operating procedures.
(d) A historical file of standard operating procedures, and all revisions thereof, including the dates of such revisions, shall be maintained.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.83
Reagents and solutions.
All reagents and solutions in the laboratory areas shall be labeled to indicate identity, titer or concentration, storage requirements, and expiration date. Deteriorated or outdated reagents and solutions shall not be used.
§ 58.90
Animal care.
(a) There shall be standard operating procedures for the housing, feeding, handling, and care of animals.
(b) All newly received animals from outside sources shall be isolated and their health status shall be evaluated in accordance with acceptable veterinary medical practice.
(c) At the initiation of a nonclinical laboratory study, animals shall be free of any disease or condition that might interfere with the purpose or conduct of the study. If, during the course of the study, the animals contract such a disease or condition, the diseased animals shall be isolated, if necessary. These animals may be treated for disease or signs of disease provided that such treatment does not interfere with the study. The diagnosis, authorizations of treatment, description of treatment, and each date of treatment shall be documented and shall be retained.
(d) Warm-blooded animals, excluding suckling rodents, used in laboratory procedures that require manipulations and observations over an extended period of time or in studies that require the animals to be removed from and returned to their home cages for any reason (e.g., cage cleaning, treatment, etc.), shall receive appropriate identification. All information needed to specifically identify each animal within an animal-housing unit shall appear on the outside of that unit.
(e) Animals of different species shall be housed in separate rooms when necessary. Animals of the same species, but used in different studies, should not ordinarily be housed in the same room when inadvertent exposure to control or test articles or animal mixup could affect the outcome of either study. If such mixed housing is necessary, adequate differentiation by space and identification shall be made.
(f) Animal cages, racks and accessory equipment shall be cleaned and sanitized at appropriate intervals.
(g) Feed and water used for the animals shall be analyzed periodically to ensure that contaminants known to be capable of interfering with the study and reasonably expected to be present in such feed or water are not present at levels above those specified in the protocol. Documentation of such analyses shall be maintained as raw data.
(h) Bedding used in animal cages or pens shall not interfere with the purpose or conduct of the study and shall be changed as often as necessary to keep the animals dry and clean.
(i) If any pest control materials are used, the use shall be documented. Cleaning and pest control materials that interfere with the study shall not be used.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33780, Sept. 4, 1987; 54 FR 15924, Apr. 20, 1989; 56 FR 32088, July 15, 1991; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]

# Subpart F—Test and Control Articles
§ 58.105
Test and control article characterization.
(a) The identity, strength, purity, and composition or other characteristics which will appropriately define the test or control article shall be determined for each batch and shall be documented. Methods of synthesis, fabrication, or derivation of the test and control articles shall be documented by the sponsor or the testing facility. In
those cases where marketed products are used as control articles, such products will be characterized by their labeling.
(b) The stability of each test or control article shall be determined by the testing facility or by the sponsor either: (1) Before study initiation, or (2) concomitantly according to written standard operating procedures, which provide for periodic analysis of each batch.
(c) Each storage container for a test or control article shall be labeled by name, chemical abstract number or code number, batch number, expiration date, if any, and, where appropriate, storage conditions necessary to maintain the identity, strength, purity, and composition of the test or control article. Storage containers shall be assigned to a particular test article for the duration of the study.
(d) For studies of more than 4 weeks' duration, reserve samples from each batch of test and control articles shall be retained for the period of time provided by § 58.195.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 58.107
Test and control article handling.
Procedures shall be established for a system for the handling of the test and control articles to ensure that:
(a) There is proper storage.
(b) Distribution is made in a manner designed to preclude the possibility of contamination, deterioration, or damage.
(c) Proper identification is maintained throughout the distribution process.
(d) The receipt and distribution of each batch is documented. Such documentation shall include the date and quantity of each batch distributed or returned.
§ 58.113
Mixtures of articles with carriers.
(a) For each test or control article that is mixed with a carrier, tests by appropriate analytical methods shall be conducted:
(1) To determine the uniformity of the mixture and to determine, periodically, the concentration of the test or control article in the mixture.
(2) To determine the stability of the test and control articles in the mixture as required by the conditions of the study either:
(i) Before study initiation, or
(ii) Concomitantly according to written standard operating procedures which provide for periodic analysis of the test and control articles in the mixture.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Where any of the components of the test or control article carrier mixture has an expiration date, that date shall be clearly shown on the container. If more than one component has an expiration date, the earliest date shall be shown.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 24865, Apr. 11, 1980; 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987]

# Subpart G—Protocol for and Conduct of a Nonclinical Laboratory Study
§ 58.120
Protocol.
(a) Each study shall have an approved written protocol that clearly indicates the objectives and all methods for the conduct of the study. The protocol shall contain, as applicable, the following information:
(1) A descriptive title and statement of the purpose of the study.
(2) Identification of the test and control articles by name, chemical abstract number, or code number.
(3) The name of the sponsor and the name and address of the testing facility at which the study is being conducted.
(4) The number, body weight range, sex, source of supply, species, strain, substrain, and age of the test system.
(5) The procedure for identification of the test system.
(6) A description of the experimental design, including the methods for the control of bias.
(7) A description and/or identification of the diet used in the study as well as solvents, emulsifiers, and/or other materials used to solubilize or suspend the test or control articles before mixing with the carrier. The description shall include specifications for acceptable
levels of contaminants that are reasonably expected to be present in the dietary materials and are known to be capable of interfering with the purpose or conduct of the study if present at levels greater than established by the specifications.
(8) Each dosage level, expressed in milligrams per kilogram of body weight or other appropriate units, of the test or control article to be administered and the method and frequency of administration.
(9) The type and frequency of tests, analyses, and measurements to be made.
(10) The records to be maintained.
(11) The date of approval of the protocol by the sponsor and the dated signature of the study director.
(12) A statement of the proposed statistical methods to be used.
(b) All changes in or revisions of an approved protocol and the reasons therefore shall be documented, signed by the study director, dated, and maintained with the protocol.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 58.130
Conduct of a nonclinical laboratory study.
(a) The nonclinical laboratory study shall be conducted in accordance with the protocol.
(b) The test systems shall be monitored in conformity with the protocol.
(c) Specimens shall be identified by test system, study, nature, and date of collection. This information shall be located on the specimen container or shall accompany the specimen in a manner that precludes error in the recording and storage of data.
(d) Records of gross findings for a specimen from postmortem observations should be available to a pathologist when examining that specimen histopathologically.
(e) All data generated during the conduct of a nonclinical laboratory study, except those that are generated by automated data collection systems, shall be recorded directly, promptly, and legibly in ink. All data entries shall be dated on the date of entry and signed or initialed by the person entering the data. Any change in entries shall be made so as not to obscure the original entry, shall indicate the reason for such change, and shall be dated and signed or identified at the time of the change. In automated data collection systems, the individual responsible for direct data input shall be identified at the time of data input. Any change in automated data entries shall be made so as not to obscure the original entry, shall indicate the reason for change, shall be dated, and the responsible individual shall be identified.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
Subparts H-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Records and Reports
§ 58.185
Reporting of nonclinical laboratory study results.
(a) A final report shall be prepared for each nonclinical laboratory study and shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
(1) Name and address of the facility performing the study and the dates on which the study was initiated and completed.
(2) Objectives and procedures stated in the approved protocol, including any changes in the original protocol.
(3) Statistical methods employed for analyzing the data.
(4) The test and control articles identified by name, chemical abstracts number or code number, strength, purity, and composition or other appropriate characteristics.
(5) Stability of the test and control articles under the conditions of administration.
(6) A description of the methods used.
(7) A description of the test system used. Where applicable, the final report shall include the number of animals used, sex, body weight range, source of supply, species, strain and substrain, age, and procedure used for identification.
(8) A description of the dosage, dosage regimen, route of administration, and duration.
(9) A description of all circumstances that may have affected the quality or integrity of the data.
(10) The name of the study director, the names of other scientists or professionals, and the names of all supervisory personnel, involved in the study.
(11) A description of the transformations, calculations, or operations performed on the data, a summary and analysis of the data, and a statement of the conclusions drawn from the analysis.
(12) The signed and dated reports of each of the individual scientists or other professionals involved in the study.
(13) The locations where all specimens, raw data, and the final report are to be stored.
(14) The statement prepared and signed by the quality assurance unit as described in § 58.35(b)(7).
(b) The final report shall be signed and dated by the study director.
(c) Corrections or additions to a final report shall be in the form of an amendment by the study director. The amendment shall clearly identify that part of the final report that is being added to or corrected and the reasons for the correction or addition, and shall be signed and dated by the person responsible.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987]
§ 58.190
Storage and retrieval of records and data.
(a) All raw data, documentation, protocols, final reports, and specimens (except those specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests and wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, and biological fluids) generated as a result of a nonclinical laboratory study shall be retained.
(b) There shall be archives for orderly storage and expedient retrieval of all raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens, and interim and final reports. Conditions of storage shall minimize deterioration of the documents or specimens in accordance with the requirements for the time period of their retention and the nature of the documents or specimens. A testing facility may contract with commercial archives to provide a repository for all material to be retained. Raw data and specimens may be retained elsewhere provided that the archives have specific reference to those other locations.
(c) An individual shall be identified as responsible for the archives.
(d) Only authorized personnel shall enter the archives.
(e) Material retained or referred to in the archives shall be indexed to permit expedient retrieval.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 58.195
Retention of records.
(a) Record retention requirements set forth in this section do not supersede the record retention requirements of any other regulations in this chapter.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, documentation records, raw data and specimens pertaining to a nonclinical laboratory study and required to be made by this part shall be retained in the archive(s) for whichever of the following periods is shortest:
(1) A period of at least 2 years following the date on which an application for a research or marketing permit, in support of which the results of the nonclinical laboratory study were submitted, is approved by the Food and Drug Administration. This requirement does not apply to studies supporting investigational new drug applications (IND's) or applications for investigational device exemptions (IDE's), records of which shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) A period of at least 5 years following the date on which the results of the nonclinical laboratory study are submitted to the Food and Drug Administration in support of an application for a research or marketing permit.
(3) In other situations (e.g., where the nonclinical laboratory study does not result in the submission of the study in support of an application for a research or marketing permit), a period of at least 2 years following the date on which the study is completed, terminated, or discontinued.
(c) Wet specimens (except those specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests and wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, and biological fluids),
samples of test or control articles, and specially prepared material, which are relatively fragile and differ markedly in stability and quality during storage, shall be retained only as long as the quality of the preparation affords evaluation. In no case shall retention be required for longer periods than those set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) The master schedule sheet, copies of protocols, and records of quality assurance inspections, as required by § 58.35(c) shall be maintained by the quality assurance unit as an easily accessible system of records for the period of time specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e) Summaries of training and experience and job descriptions required to be maintained by § 58.29(b) may be retained along with all other testing facility employment records for the length of time specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(f) Records and reports of the maintenance and calibration and inspection of equipment, as required by § 58.63(b) and (c), shall be retained for the length of time specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(g) Records required by this part may be retained either as original records or as true copies such as photocopies, microfilm, microfiche, or other accurate reproductions of the original records.
(h) If a facility conducting nonclinical testing goes out of business, all raw data, documentation, and other material specified in this section shall be transferred to the archives of the sponsor of the study. The Food and Drug Administration shall be notified in writing of such a transfer.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 33781, Sept. 4, 1987; 54 FR 9039, Mar. 3, 1989]

# Subpart K—Disqualification of Testing Facilities
§ 58.200
Purpose.
(a) The purposes of disqualification are:
(1) To permit the exclusion from consideration of completed studies that were conducted by a testing facility which has failed to comply with the requirements of the good laboratory practice regulations until it can be adequately demonstrated that such noncompliance did not occur during, or did not affect the validity or acceptability of data generated by, a particular study; and
(2) To exclude from consideration all studies completed after the date of disqualification until the facility can satisfy the Commissioner that it will conduct studies in compliance with such regulations.
(b) The determination that a nonclinical laboratory study may not be considered in support of an application for a research or marketing permit does not, however, relieve the applicant for such a permit of any obligation under any other applicable regulation to submit the results of the study to the Food and Drug Administration.
§ 58.202
Grounds for disqualification.
The Commissioner may disqualify a testing facility upon finding all of the following:
(a) The testing facility failed to comply with one or more of the regulations set forth in this part (or any other regulations regarding such facilities in this chapter);
(b) The noncompliance adversely affected the validity of the nonclinical laboratory studies; and
(c) Other lesser regulatory actions (e.g., warnings or rejection of individual studies) have not been or will probably not be adequate to achieve compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations.
§ 58.204
Notice of and opportunity for hearing on proposed disqualification.
(a) Whenever the Commissioner has information indicating that grounds exist under § 58.202 which in his opinion justify disqualification of a testing facility, he may issue to the testing facility a written notice proposing that the facility be disqualified.
(b) A hearing on the disqualification shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements for a regulatory hearing set forth in part 16 of this chapter.
§ 58.206
Final order on disqualification.
(a) If the Commissioner, after the regulatory hearing, or after the time for requesting a hearing expires without a request being made, upon an evaluation of the administrative record of the disqualification proceeding, makes the findings required in § 58.202, he shall issue a final order disqualifying the facility. Such order shall include a statement of the basis for that determination. Upon issuing a final order, the Commissioner shall notify (with a copy of the order) the testing facility of the action.
(b) If the Commissioner, after a regulatory hearing or after the time for requesting a hearing expires without a request being made, upon an evaluation of the administrative record of the disqualification proceeding, does not make the findings required in § 58.202, he shall issue a final order terminating the disqualification proceeding. Such order shall include a statement of the basis for that determination. Upon issuing a final order the Commissioner shall notify the testing facility and provide a copy of the order.
§ 58.210
Actions upon disqualification.
(a) Once a testing facility has been disqualified, each application for a research or marketing permit, whether approved or not, containing or relying upon any nonclinical laboratory study conducted by the disqualified testing facility may be examined to determine whether such study was or would be essential to a decision. If it is determined that a study was or would be essential, the Food and Drug Administration shall also determine whether the study is acceptable, notwithstanding the disqualification of the facility. Any study done by a testing facility before or after disqualification may be presumed to be unacceptable, and the person relying on the study may be required to establish that the study was not affected by the circumstances that led to the disqualification, e.g., by submitting validating information. If the study is then determined to be unacceptable, such data will be eliminated from consideration in support of the application; and such elimination may serve as new information justifying the termination or withdrawal of approval of the application.
(b) No nonclinical laboratory study begun by a testing facility after the date of the facility's disqualification shall be considered in support of any application for a research or marketing permit, unless the facility has been reinstated under § 58.219. The determination that a study may not be considered in support of an application for a research or marketing permit does not, however, relieve the applicant for such a permit of any obligation under any other applicable regulation to submit the results of the study to the Food and Drug Administration.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 59 FR 13200, Mar. 21, 1994]
§ 58.213
Public disclosure of information regarding disqualification.
(a) Upon issuance of a final order disqualifying a testing facility under § 58.206(a), the Commissioner may notify all or any interested persons. Such notice may be given at the discretion of the Commissioner whenever he believes that such disclosure would further the public interest or would promote compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in this part. Such notice, if given, shall include a copy of the final order issued under § 58.206(a) and shall state that the disqualification constitutes a determination by the Food and Drug Administration that nonclinical laboratory studies performed by the facility will not be considered by the Food and Drug Administration in support of any application for a research or marketing permit. If such notice is sent to another Federal Government agency, the Food and Drug Administration will recommend that the agency also consider whether or not it should accept nonclinical laboratory studies performed by the testing facility. If such notice is sent to any other person, it shall state that it is given because of the relationship between the testing facility and the person being notified and that the Food and Drug Administration is not advising or recommending that any action be taken by the person notified.
(b) A determination that a testing facility has been disqualified and the administrative record regarding such determination are disclosable to the public under part 20 of this chapter.
§ 58.215
Alternative or additional actions to disqualification.
(a) Disqualification of a testing facility under this subpart is independent of, and neither in lieu of nor a precondition to, other proceedings or actions authorized by the act. The Food and Drug Administration may, at any time, institute against a testing facility and/or against the sponsor of a nonclinical laboratory study that has been submitted to the Food and Drug Administration any appropriate judicial proceedings (civil or criminal) and any other appropriate regulatory action, in addition to or in lieu of, and prior to, simultaneously with, or subsequent to, disqualification. The Food and Drug Administration may also refer the matter to another Federal, State, or local government law enforcement or regulatory agency for such action as that agency deems appropriate.
(b) The Food and Drug Administration may refuse to consider any particular nonclinical laboratory study in support of an application for a research or marketing permit, if it finds that the study was not conducted in accordance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in this part, without disqualifying the testing facility that conducted the study or undertaking other regulatory action.
§ 58.217
Suspension or termination of a testing facility by a sponsor.
Termination of a testing facility by a sponsor is independent of, and neither in lieu of nor a precondition to, proceedings or actions authorized by this subpart. If a sponsor terminates or suspends a testing facility from further participation in a nonclinical laboratory study that is being conducted as part of any application for a research or marketing permit that has been submitted to any Center of the Food and Drug Administration (whether approved or not), it shall notify that Center in writing within 15 working days of the action; the notice shall include a statement of the reasons for such action. Suspension or termination of a testing facility by a sponsor does not relieve it of any obligation under any other applicable regulation to submit the results of the study to the Food and Drug Administration.
[43 FR 60013, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 8995, Mar. 6, 1985]
§ 58.219
Reinstatement of a disqualified testing facility.
A testing facility that has been disqualified may be reinstated as an acceptable source of nonclinical laboratory studies to be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration if the Commissioner determines, upon an evaluation of the submission of the testing facility, that the facility can adequately assure that it will conduct future nonclinical laboratory studies in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in this part and, if any studies are currently being conducted, that the quality and integrity of such studies have not been seriously compromised. A disqualified testing facility that wishes to be so reinstated shall present in writing to the Commissioner reasons why it believes it should be reinstated and a detailed description of the corrective actions it has taken or intends to take to assure that the acts or omissions which led to its disqualification will not recur. The Commissioner may condition reinstatement upon the testing facility being found in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations upon an inspection. If a testing facility is reinstated, the Commissioner shall so notify the testing facility and all organizations and persons who were notified, under § 58.213 of the disqualification of the testing facility. A determination that a testing facility has been reinstated is disclosable to the public under part 20 of this chapter.
Pt. 60

# PART 60—PATENT TERM RESTORATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
60.1
Scope.
60.2
Purpose.
60.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Assistance
60.10
FDA assistance on eligibility.

# Subpart C—Regulatory Review Period Determinations
60.20
FDA action on regulatory review period determinations.
60.22
Regulatory review period determinations.
60.24
Revision of regulatory review period determinations.
60.26
Final action on regulatory review period determinations.
60.28
Time frame for determining regulatory review periods.

# Subpart D—Due Diligence Petitions
60.30
Filing, format, and content of petitions.
60.32
Applicant response to petition.
60.34
FDA action on petitions.
60.36
Standard of due diligence.

# Subpart E—Due Diligence Hearings
60.40
Request for hearing.
60.42
Notice of hearing.
60.44
Hearing procedures.
60.46
Administrative decision.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 348, 355, 360e, 360j, 371, 379e; 35 U.S.C. 156; 42 U.S.C. 262.

# Source:
53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 60 appear at 68 FR 24879, May 9, 2003, and at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 60.1
Scope.
(a) This part sets forth procedures and requirements for the Food and Drug Administration's review of applications for the extension of the term of certain patents under 35 U.S.C. 156. Patent term restoration is available for certain patents related to drug products (as defined in 35 U.S.C. 156(f)(2)), and to medical devices, food additives, or color additives subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the Public Health Service Act. Food and Drug Administration actions in this area include:
(1) Assisting the United States Patent and Trademark Office in determining eligibility for patent term restoration;
(2) Determining the length of a product's regulatory review period;
(3) If petitioned, reviewing and ruling on due diligence challenges to the Food and Drug Administration's regulatory review period determinations; and
(4) Conducting hearings to review initial Food and Drug Administration findings on due diligence challenges.
(b) References in this part to the Code of Federal Regulations are to chapter I of title 21, unless otherwise noted.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 56261, Nov. 27, 1992]
§ 60.2
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to establish a thorough yet efficient process for the Food and Drug Administration review of patent term restoration applications. To achieve this purpose, the regulations are intended to:
(1) Facilitate determinations of patent term restoration eligibility and regulatory review period length, and
(2) Ensure that parties interested in due diligence challenges will have an opportunity to participate in that process, including informal hearings.
(b) The regulations are intended to complement those promulgated by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to implement those parts of the law which are under that agency's jurisdiction. These regulations shall be construed in light of these objectives.
§ 60.3
Definitions.
(a) The definitions contained in 35 U.S.C. 156 apply to those terms when used in this part.
(b) The following definitions of terms apply to this part:
(1) The term
Act
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (secs. 201-901, 52 Stat. 1040
et seq.
as amended (21 U.S.C. 301-392)).
(2)
Active ingredient
means any component that is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or of animals. The term includes those components that may undergo chemical change in the manufacture of the drug product and be present in the drug
product in a modified form intended to furnish the specified activity or effect.
(3)
Applicant
means any person who submits an application or an amendment or supplement to an application under 35 U.S.C. 156 seeking patent term restoration.
(4)
Application
means an application for patent term restoration submitted under 35 U.S.C. 156.
(5)
Clinical investigation or study
means any experiment that involves a test article and one or more subjects and that is either subject to requirements for prior submission to the Food and Drug Administration under section 505(i), 512(j), or 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or is not subject to the requirements for prior submission to FDA under those sections of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, but the results of which are intended to be submitted later to, or held for inspection by, FDA as part of an application for a research or marketing permit. The term does not include experiments that are subject to the provisions of part 58 regarding nonclinical laboratory studies.
(6)
Color additive
means any substance that meets the definition in section 201(t) of the Act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 721 of the Act.
(7)
Due diligence petition
means a petition submitted under § 60.30(a).
(8)
FDA
means the Food and Drug Administration.
(9)
Food additive
means any substance that meets the definition in section 201(s) of the Act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 409 of the Act.
(10)
Human drug product
means the active ingredient of a new drug or human biologic product (as those terms are used in the Act and the Public Health Service Act), including any salt or ester of the active ingredient, as a single entity or in combination with another active ingredient.
(11)
Marketing applicant
means any person who submits an application for premarketing approval by FDA under:
(i) Section 505(b) of the Act or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (human drug products);
(ii) Section 515 of the Act (medical devices);
(iii) Section 409 or 721 of the Act (food and color additives); or
(iv) Section 512 of the Act (animal drug products).
(12)
Marketing application
means an application for:
(i) Human drug products submitted under section 505(b) of the Act or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act;
(ii) Medical devices submitted under section 515 of the Act;
(iii) Food and color additives submitted under section 409 or 721 of the Act; or
(iv) Animal drug products submitted under section 512 of the Act.
(13)
Medical device
means any article that meets the definition in section 201(h) of the Act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 515 of the Act.
(14)
Product
means a human drug product, animal drug product, medical device, food additive, or color additive, as those terms are defined in this section.
(15)
PTO
means the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
(16)
Animal drug product
means the active ingredient of a new animal drug (as that term is used in the Act) that is not primarily manufactured using recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), recombinant ribonucleic acid (RNA), hybridoma technology, or other processes involving site-specific genetic manipulation techniques, including any salt or ester of the active ingredient, as a single entity or in combination with another active ingredient.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 56261, Nov. 27, 1992; 64 FR 399, Jan. 5, 1999]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Assistance
§ 60.10
FDA assistance on eligibility.
(a) Upon written request from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, FDA will assist the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in determining whether a patent related to a product is eligible for patent term restoration as follows:
(1) Verifying whether the product was subject to a regulatory review period before its commercial marketing or use;
(2) For human drug products, food additives, color additives, and medical devices, determining whether the permission for commercial marketing or use of the product after the regulatory review period is the first permitted commercial marketing or use of the product either:
(i) Under the provision of law under which the regulatory review period occurred; or
(ii) Under the process claimed in the patent when the patent claims a method of manufacturing the product that primarily uses recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) technology in the manufacture of the product;
(3) For animal drug products, determining whether the permission for commercial marketing or use of the product after the regulatory review period:
(i) Is the first permitted commercial marketing or use of the product; or
(ii) Is the first permitted commercial marketing or use of the product for administration to a food-producing animal, whichever is applicable, under the provision of law under which the regulatory review period occurred;
(4) Informing the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office whether the patent term restoration application was submitted within 60 days after the product was approved for marketing or use, or, if the product is an animal drug approved for use in a food-producing animal, verifying whether the application was filed within 60 days of the first approval for marketing or use in a food-producing animal; and
(5) Providing the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office with any other information relevant to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's determination of whether a patent related to a product is eligible for patent term restoration.
(b) FDA will notify the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office of its findings in writing, send a copy of this notification to the applicant, and file a copy of the notification in the docket established for the application in FDA's Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
[57 FR 56261, Nov. 27, 1992]

# Subpart C—Regulatory Review Period Determinations
§ 60.20
FDA action on regulatory review period determinations.
(a) FDA will consult its records and experts to verify the dates contained in the application and to determine the length of the product's regulatory review period under § 60.22. The application shall contain information relevant to the determination of the regulatory review period as stated in the “Guidelines for Extension of Patent Term Under 35 U.S.C. 156” published on October 9, 1984, in PTO's
Official Gazette
and as required by 37 CFR chapter I.
(b) After determining the length of the regulatory review period, FDA will notify PTO in writing of its determination, send a copy of this determination to the applicant, and file a copy of the determination in the docket established for the application in FDA's Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
(c) FDA will also publish the regulatory review period determination in the
Federal Register.
The notice will include the following:
(1) The name of the applicant;
(2) The trade name and generic name (if applicable) of the product;
(3) The number of the patent for which an extension of the term is sought;
(4) The approved indications or uses for the product;
(5) An explanation of any discrepancies between the dates in the application and FDA records;
(6) Where appropriate, an explanation that FDA has no record in which to review the date(s) contained in the application; and
(7) The regulatory review period determination, including a statement of the length of the testing and approval phases and the dates used in calculating each phase.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 14364, Mar. 28, 1994]
§ 60.22
Regulatory review period determinations.
In determining a product's regulatory review period, which consists of the sum of the lengths of a testing
phase and an approval phase, FDA will review the information in each application using the following definitions of the testing phase and the approval phase for that class of products.
(a) For human drugs:
(1) The testing phase begins on the date an exemption under section 505(i) of the Act becomes effective (or the date an exemption under former section 507(d) of the Act became effective) for the approved human drug product and ends on the date a marketing application under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act or section 505 of the act is initially submitted to FDA (or was initially submitted to FDA under former section 507 of the Act), and
(2) The approval phase begins on the date a marketing application under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act or section 505(b) of the Act is initially submitted to FDA (or was initially submitted under former section 507 of the Act) and ends on the date the application is approved.
(b) For food and color additives:
(1) The testing phase begins on the date a major health or environmental effects test is begun and ends on the date a petition relying on the test and requesting the issuance of a regulation for use of the additive under section 409 or 721 of the Act is initially submitted to FDA.
(2) The approval phase begins on the date a petition requesting the issuance of a regulation for use of the additive under section 409 or 721 of the Act is initially submitted to FDA and ends upon whichever of the following occurs last:
(i) The regulation for the additive becomes effective; or
(ii) Objections filed against the regulation that result in a stay of effectiveness are resolved and commercial marketing is permitted; or
(iii) Proceedings resulting from objections to the regulation, after commercial marketing has been permitted and later stayed pending resolution of the proceedings, are finally resolved and commercial marketing is permitted.
(c) For medical devices:
(1) The testing phase begins on the date a clinical investigation on humans is begun and ends on the date an application for premarket approval of the device or a notice of completion of a product development protocol is initially submitted under section 515 of the Act. For purposes of this part, a clinical investigation is considered to begin on whichever of the following dates applies:
(i) If an investigational device exemption (IDE) under section 520(g) of the Act is required, the effective date of the exemption.
(ii) If an IDE is not required, but institutional review board (IRB) approval under section 520(g)(3) of the Act is required, the IRB approval date.
(iii) If neither an IDE nor IRB approval is required, the date on which the device is first used with human subjects as part of a clinical investigation to be filed with FDA to secure premarket approval of the device.
(2) The approval phase either:
(i) Begins on the date an application for premarket approval of the device is initially submitted under section 515 of the Act and ends on the date the application is approved; or
(ii) Begins on the date a notice of completion of a product development protocol is initially submitted under section 515 of the Act and ends on the date the protocol is declared to be completed.
(d) For animal drugs:
(1) The testing phase begins on the date a major health or environmental effects test is begun or the date on which the agency acknowledges the filing of a notice of claimed investigational exemption for a new animal drug, whichever is earlier, and ends on the date a marketing application under section 512 of the Act is initially submitted to FDA.
(2) The approval phase begins on the date a marketing application under section 512 of the Act is initially submitted to FDA and ends on the date the application is approved.
(e) For purposes of this section, a “major health or environmental effects test” may be any test which:
(1) Is reasonably related to the evaluation of the product's health or environmental effects, or both:
(2) Produces data necessary for marketing approval; and
(3) Is conducted over a period of no less than 6 months duration, excluding time required to analyze or evaluate test results.
(f) For purposes of determining the regulatory review period for any product, a marketing application, a notice of completion of a product development protocol, or a petition is
initially submitted
on the date it contains sufficient information to allow FDA to commence review of the application. A marketing application, a notice of completion of a product development protocol, or a petition is
approved
on the date FDA sends the applicant a letter informing it of the approval or, by order declares a product development protocol to be completed, or, in the case of food and color additives, on the effective date of the final rule listing the additive for use as published in the
Federal Register
or, in the case of a new animal drug in a Category II Type A medicated article, on the date of publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice of approval pursuant to section 512(i) of the Act. For purposes of this section, the regulatory review period for an animal drug shall mean either the regulatory review period relating the drug's approval for use in nonfood-producing animals or the regulatory review period relating to the drug's approval for use in food-producing animals, whichever is applicable.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 56262, Nov. 27, 1992; 64 FR 400, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 60.24
Revision of regulatory review period determinations.
(a) Any person may request a revision of the regulatory review period determination within 60 days after its initial publication in the
Federal Register.
The request shall be sent to the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. The request shall specify the following:
(1) The type of action requested;
(2) The identity of the product;
(3) The identity of the applicant;
(4) The FDA docket number; and
(5) The basis for the request for revision, including any documentary evidence.
(b) Unless the applicant is the person requesting the revision, the applicant shall respond to the request within 15 days. In responding to the request, the applicant may submit information which is relevant to the events during the regulatory review period but which was not included in the original patent term restoration application. A request for a revision is not equivalent to a due diligence petition under § 60.30 or a request for a hearing under § 60.40. If no response is submitted, FDA will decide the matter on the basis of the information in the patent term restoration application, request for revision, and FDA records.
(c) FDA shall apply the provisions of § 60.22 in considering the request for a revision of the regulatory review period determination. lf FDA revises its prior determination, FDA will notify PTO of the revision, send a copy of this notification to the applicant, and publish the revision in the
Federal Register,
including a statement giving the reasons for the revision.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 14364, Mar. 28, 1994; 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 60.26
Final action on regulatory review period determinations.
(a) FDA will consider a regulatory review period determination to be final upon expiration of the 180-day period for filing a due diligence petition under § 60.30 unless FDA receives:
(1) New information from PTO records, FDA records, or FDA centers that affects the regulatory review period determination;
(2) A request under § 60.24 for revision of the regulatory review period determination;
(3) A due diligence petition filed under § 60.30; or
(4) A request for a hearing filed under § 60.40.
(b) FDA will notify PTO that the regulatory review period determination is final upon:
(1) The expiration of the 180-day period for filing a due diligence petition; or
(2) If FDA has received a request for a revision, a due diligence petition, or a request for a hearing, upon resolution of the request for a revision, the petition, or the hearing, whichever is later.
FDA will send a copy of the notification to the applicant and file a copy of the notification in the docket established for the application in FDA's Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 14364, Mar. 28, 1994]
§ 60.28
Time frame for determining regulatory review periods.
(a) FDA will determine the regulatory review period for a product within 30 days of the receipt of a written request from PTO for such a determination and a copy of the patent term restoration application.
(b) FDA may extend the 30-day period if:
(1) A related FDA action that may affect the regulatory review period determination is pending; or
(2) PTO requests that FDA temporarily suspend the determination process; or
(3) PTO or FDA receives new information about the product that warrants an extension of the time required for the determination of the regulatory review period.
(c) This section does not apply to applications withdrawn by the applicant or applications that PTO determines are ineligible for patent term restoration.

# Subpart D—Due Diligence Petitions
§ 60.30
Filing, format, and content of petitions.
(a) Any person may file a petition with FDA, no later than 180 days after the publication of a regulatory review period determination under § 60.20, that challenges FDA's determination by alleging that the applicant for patent term restoration did not act with due diligence in seeking FDA approval of the product during the regulatory review period.
(b) The petition shall be filed in accordance with § 10.20, under the docket number of the
Federal Register
notice of the agency's regulatory review period determination, and shall be in the format specified in § 10.30. The petition shall contain the information specified in § 10.30 and any additional information required by this subpart. If any provision of § 10.20 or § 10.30 is inconsistent with any provision of this part, FDA will consider the petition in accordance with this part.
(c) The petition shall claim that the applicant did not act with due diligence during some part of the regulatory review period and shall set forth sufficient facts, including dates if possible, to merit an investigation by FDA of whether the applicant acted with due diligence.
(d) The petition shall contain a certification that the petitioner has served a true and complete copy of the petition upon the applicant by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested) or by personal delivery.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 60.32
Applicant response to petition.
(a) The applicant shall file with FDA a written response to the petition no later than 30 days after the applicant's receipt of a copy of the petition.
(b) The applicant's response may present additional facts and circumstances to address the assertions in the petition, but shall be limited to the issue of whether the applicant acted with due diligence during the regulatory review period. The applicant's response may include documents that were not in the original patent extension application.
(c) If the applicant does not respond to the petition, FDA will decide the matter on the basis of the information submitted in the patent term restoration application, due diligence petition, and FDA records.
§ 60.34
FDA action on petitions.
(a) Within 90 days after FDA receives a petition filed under § 60.30(a), the agency will either deny the petition under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section or investigate and determine under § 60.36 whether the applicant acted with due diligence during the regulatory review period. FDA will publish its due diligence determination in the
Federal Register,
notify PTO of the due diligence determination in writing, and send copies of the notice
to PTO, the applicant, and the petitioner.
(b) FDA may deny a due diligence petition without considering the merits of the petition if:
(1) The petition is not filed in accordance with § 60.30;
(2) The petition is not filed in accordance with § 10.20;
(3) The petition does not contain the information required by § 10.30;
(4) The petition fails to contain information or allegations upon which it may reasonably be determined that the applicant did not act with due diligence during the applicable regulatory review period; or
(5) The petition fails to allege a sufficient total amount of time during which the applicant did not exercise due diligence such that, even if the petition were granted, the petition would not affect the maximum patent extension the applicant sought in the application.
§ 60.36
Standard of due diligence.
(a) In determining the due diligence of an applicant, FDA will examine the facts and circumstances of the applicant's actions during the regulatory review period to determine whether the applicant exhibited that degree of attention, continuous directed effort, and timeliness as may reasonably be expected from, and are ordinarily exercised by, a person during a regulatory review period. FDA will take into consideration all relevant factors, such as the amount of time between the approval of an investigational exemption or research permit and the commencement of a clinical investigation and the amount of time required to conduct a clinical investigation.
(b) For purposes of this part, the actions of the marketing applicant shall be imputed to the applicant for patent term restoration. The actions of an agent, attorney, contractor, employee, licensee, or predecessor in interest of the marketing applicant or applicant for patent term restoration shall be imputed to the applicant for patent term restoration.

# Subpart E—Due Diligence Hearings
§ 60.40
Request for hearing.
(a) Any person may request, not later than 60 days after the publication under § 60.34(a) of FDA's due diligence determination, that FDA conduct an informal hearing on the due diligence determination.
(b) The request for a hearing under this section shall:
(1) Be sent by mail, personal delivery, or any other mode of written communication to the Dockets Management Staff and filed under the relevant product file;
(2) Specify the facts and the action that are the subject of the hearing;
(3) Provide the name and address of the person requesting the hearing; and
(4) Certify that the requesting party has served a true and complete copy of the request upon the petitioner and the applicant by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested) or by personal delivery.
(c) The request shall state whether the requesting party seeks a hearing within 30 days or 60 days of FDA's receipt of the request.
[53 FR 7305, Mar. 7, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 9585, Mar. 4, 2002]
§ 60.42
Notice of hearing.
Ten days before the hearing, FDA will notify the requesting party, the applicant, and the petitioner, orally or in writing, of the date, time, and location of the hearing. The agency will provide the requesting party, the applicant, and the petitioner with an opportunity to participate as a party in the hearing.
§ 60.44
Hearing procedures.
The due diligence hearing shall be conducted in accordance with this part, supplemented by the nonconflicting procedures in part 16. During the due diligence hearing, the applicant and the petitioner shall enjoy all the rights and privileges accorded a person requesting a hearing under part 16. The standard of due diligence set forth in § 60.36 will apply in the due diligence hearing. The party requesting the due
diligence hearing shall have the burden of proof at the hearing.
§ 60.46
Administrative decision.
Within 30 days after the completion of the due diligence hearing, the Commissioner will affirm or revise the determination made under § 60.34(a) and will publish the due diligence redetermination in the
Federal Register,
notify PTO of the redetermination, and send copies of the notice to PTO and to the requesting party, the applicant, and the petitioner.
Pt. 70

# PART 70—COLOR ADDITIVES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
70.3
Definitions.
70.5
General restrictions on use of color additives.
70.10
Color additives in standardized foods and new drugs.
70.11
Related substances.
70.19
Fees for listing.

# Subpart B—Packaging and Labeling
70.20
Packaging requirements for straight colors (other than hair dyes).
70.25
Labeling requirements for color additives (other than hair dyes).

# Subpart C—Safety Evaluation
70.40
Safety factors to be considered.
70.42
Criteria for evaluating the safety of color additives.
70.45
Allocation of color additives.
70.50
Application of the cancer clause of section 721 of the act.
70.51
Advisory committee on the application of the anticancer clause.
70.55
Request for scientific studies.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 341, 342, 343, 348, 351, 360b, 361, 371, 379e.

# Source:
42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 70.3
Definitions.
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b)
Department
means the Department of Health and Human Services.
(c)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(d)
Act
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as amended.
(e)
Color Certification Branch
means the unit established within the Food and Drug Administration located in the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, charged with the responsibility for the mechanics of the certification procedure hereinafter described, and including the examination of samples of color additives subject to certification.
(f) A
color additive
is any material, not exempted under section 201(t) of the act, that is a dye, pigment, or other substance made by a process of synthesis or similar artifice, or extracted, isolated, or otherwise derived, with or without intermediate or final change of identity, from a vegetable, animal, mineral, or other source and that, when added or applied to a food, drug, or cosmetic or to the human body or any part thereof, is capable (alone or through reaction with another substance) of imparting a color thereto. Substances capable of imparting a color to a container for foods, drugs, or cosmetics are not color additives unless the customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use of the container may reasonably be expected to result in the transmittal of the color to the contents of the package or any part thereof. Food ingredients such as cherries, green or red peppers, chocolate, and orange juice which contribute their own natural color when mixed with other foods are not regarded as
color additives
; but where a food substance such as beet juice is deliberately used as a color, as in pink lemonade, it is a
color additive.
Food ingredients as authorized by a definitions and standard of identity prescribed by regulations pursuant to section 401 of the act are
color additives,
where the ingredients are specifically designated in the definitions and standards of identity as permitted for use for coloring purposes. An ingredient of an animal feed whose intended function is to impart, through the biological processes of the animal, a color to the meat, milk, or eggs of the animal is a color additive and is not exempt from the requirements of the statute. This definition shall apply whether or not such
ingredient has nutritive or other functions in addition to the property of imparting color. An ingested drug the intended function of which is to impart color to the human body is a
color additive.
For the purposes of this part, the term
color
includes black, white, and intermediate grays, but substances including migrants from packaging materials which do not contribute any color apparent to the naked eye are not
color additives.
(g) For a material otherwise meeting the definition of
color additive
to be exempt from section 721 of the act, on the basis that it is used (or intended to be used) solely for a purpose or purposes other than coloring, the material must be used in a way that any color imparted is clearly unimportant insofar as the appearance, value, marketability, or consumer acceptability is concerned. (It is not enough to warrant exemption if conditions are such that the primary purpose of the material is other than to impart color.)
(h) The exemption that applies to a pesticide chemical, soil or plant nutrient, or other agricultural chemical, where its coloring effect results solely from its aiding, retarding, or otherwise affecting directly or indirectly, the growth or other natural physiological processes of produce of the soil, applies only to color developed in such product through natural physiological processes such as enzymatic action. If the pesticide chemical, soil or plant nutrient, or other agricultural chemical itself acts as a color or carries as an ingredient a color, and because of this property colors the produce of the soil, it is a
color additive
and is not exempt.
(i)
Safe
means that there is convincing evidence that establishes with reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the intended use of the color additive.
(j) The term
straight color
means a color additive listed in parts 73, 74, and 81 of this chapter, and includes lakes and such substances as are permitted by the specifications for such color.
(k) The term
mixture
means a color additive made by mixing two or more straight colors, or one or more straight colors and one or more diluents.
(l) The term
lake
means a straight color extended on a substratum by adsorption, coprecipitation, or chemical combination that does not include any combination of ingredients made by simple mixing process.
(m) The term
diluent
means any component of a color additive mixture that is not of itself a color additive and has been intentionally mixed therein to facilitate the use of the mixture in coloring foods, drugs, or cosmetics or in coloring the human body. The diluent may serve another functional purpose in the foods, drugs, or cosmetics, as for example sweetening, flavoring, emulsifying, or stabilizing, or may be a functional component of an article intended for coloring the human body.
(n) The term
substratum
means the substance on which the pure color in a lake is extended.
(o) The term
pure color
means the color contained in a color additive, exclusive of any intermediate or other component, or of any diluent or substratum contained therein.
(p) The term
batch
means a homogeneous lot of color additive or color additive mixture produced by an identified production operation, which is set apart and held as a unit for the purpose of obtaining certification of such quantity.
(q) The term
batch number
means the number assigned to a batch by the person who requests certification thereof.
(r) The term
lot number
means an identifying number or symbol assigned to a batch by the Food and Drug Administration.
(s) The term
area of the eye
means the area enclosed with in the circumference of the supra-orbital ridge and the infra-orbital ridge, including the eyebrow, the skin below the eyebrow, the eyelids and the eyelashes, and conjunctival sac of the eye, the eyeball, and the soft areolar tissue that lies within the perimeter of the infra-orbital ridge.
(t) The term
package
means the immediate container in which a color additive or color additive mixture has been packed for shipment or delivery. If the package is then packed in a shipping carton or other protective container, such container shall not be considered to be the immediate container. In the case of color additive mixtures for household use containing less than
15 percent pure color, when two or more containers of 3 ounces each or less, each containing a different color, are distributed as a unit, the immediate container for such unit shall be considered to be the package as defined in this section.
(u) The
hair dye
exemption in section 601(a) of the act applies to coal tar hair dyes intended for use in altering the color of the hair and which are, or which bear or contain, color additives derived from coal tar with the sensitization potential of causing skin irritation in certain individuals and possible blindness when used for dyeing the eyelashes or eyebrows. The exemption is permitted with the condition that the label of any such article bear conspicuously the statutory caution and adequate directions for preliminary patch-testing. The exemption does not apply to coloring ingredients in hair dyes not derived from coal tar, and it does not extend to poisonous or deleterious diluents that may be introduced as wetting agents, hair conditions, emulsifiers, or other components in a color shampoo, rinse, tint, or similar dual-purpose cosmetic that alter the color of the hair.
(v) The terms
externally applied drugs
and
externally applied cosmetics
mean drugs or cosmetics applied only to external parts of the body and not to the lips or any body surface covered by mucous membrane.
[42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 61 FR 14478, Apr. 2, 1996]
§ 70.5
General restrictions on use of color additives.
(a)
Color additives for use in the area of the eye.
No listing or certification of a color additive shall be considered to authorize the use of any such color additive in any article intended for use in the area of the eye unless such listing or certification of such color additive specifically provides for such use. Any color additive used in or on any article intended for use in the area of the eye, the listing or certification of which color additive does not provide for such use, shall be considered to be a color additive not listed under parts 73, 74, and 81 of this chapter, even though such color additive is certified and/or listed for other uses.
(b)
Color additives for use in injections.
No listing or certification of a color additive shall be considered to authorize the use of any such color additive in any article intended for use in injections unless such listing or certification of such color additive specifically provides for such use. Any color additive used in or on any article intended for use in injections, the listing or certification of which color additive does not provide for such use, shall be considered to be a color additive not listed under parts 73, 74, and 81 of this chapter, even though such color additive is certified and/or listed for other uses.
(c)
Color additives for use in surgical sutures.
No listing or certification of a color additive shall be considered to authorize the use of any such color additive in any article intended for use as a surgical suture unless such listing or certification of such color additive specifically provides for such use. Any color additive used in or on any article intended for use as a surgical suture, the listing or certification of which color additive does not provide for such use, shall be considered to be a color additive not listed under parts 73, 74, and 81 of this chapter, even though such color additive is certified and/or listed for other uses.
§ 70.10
Color additives in standardized foods and new drugs.
(a)
Standardized foods.
(1) Where a petition is received for issuance or amendment of a regulation establishing a definition and standard of identity for a food under section 401 of the act, which proposes the inclusion of a color additive in the standardized food, the provisions of the regulations in part 71 of this chapter shall apply with respect to the information that must be submitted with respect to the safety of the color additive (if such information has not previously been submitted and safety of the color additive for the intended use has not been already established), and the petition must show also that the use of the color additive in the standardized food would be in conformance with section 401 of the act or with the terms of a temporary permit issued under § 130.17 of this chapter.
(2) If a petition for a definition and standard of identity contains a proposal for a color additive regulation, and the petitioner fails to designate it as such, the Commissioner, upon determining that the petition includes a proposal for a color additive regulation, shall so notify the petitioner and shall thereafter proceed in accordance with the regulations in part 71 of this chapter.
(3) A regulation will not be issued allowing the use of a color additive in a food for which a definition and standard of identity is established, unless its issuance is in conformance with section 401 of the act or with the terms of a temporary permit issued under § 130.17 of this chapter. When the contemplated use of such additive complies with the terms of a temporary permit, the color additive regulation will be conditioned on such compliance and will expire with the expiration of the temporary permit.
(b)
New drugs.
(1) Where an application for a new drug is received and this application proposes, for coloring purposes only, the inclusion of a color additive, the provisions of the regulations in part 71 of this chapter shall apply with respect to the information that must be submitted about the safety of the color additive, if such information has not previously been submitted and safety of the color additive for the intended use has not already been established.
(2) If an application for a new drug inferentially contains a proposal for a color additive regulation, and the applicant fails to designate it as such, the Commissioner, upon determining that the application includes a proposal for a color additive regulation, shall so notify the applicant and shall thereafter proceed in accordance with the regulations in part 71 of this chapter.
(3) Where a petition for a color additive must be filed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the date of filing of the color additive petition shall be considered as the date of filing of the new-drug application.
[42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 64 FR 400, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 70.11
Related substances.
(a) Different color additives may cause similar or related pharmacological or biological effects, and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, those that do so will be considered to have additive toxic effects.
(b) Food additives may also cause pharmacological or biological effects similar or related to such effects caused by color additives, and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, those that do so will be considered as having additive toxic effects.
(c) Pesticide chemicals may also cause pharmacological or biological effects similar or related to such effects caused by color additives, and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, those that do so will be considered to have additive toxic effects.
(d) In establishing tolerances for color additives, the Commissioner will take into consideration, among other things, the amount of any common component permitted in other color additives, in food additives, and in pesticide chemical residues as well as the similar biological activity (such as cholinesterase inhibition) produced by such substance.
§ 70.19
Fees for listing.
(a) Each petition for the listing of a color additive shall be accompanied by a deposit of $3,000.00 if the proposal is for listing the color additive for use generally in or on foods, in or on drugs, and in or on cosmetics.
(b) If the petition for the listing is for use in or on foods only, the deposit shall be $3,000.00.
(c) If the petition for the listing is for use in or on drugs and/or cosmetics only, the deposit shall be $2,600.00.
(d) The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be applicable, whether or not the proposal contemplates any tolerances, limitations, or other restrictions placed upon the use of the color additive.
(e) If a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn before it is finally accepted for filing, the deposit, less a $600.00 fee for clerical handling and administrative and technical review, shall be returned to the petitioner.
(f) If a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn within 30 days after filing, the deposit, less $1,800.00 if the petition is covered by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and less $1,600.00, if the petition is covered by paragraph (c) of this section, shall be returned to the petitioner.
(g) When a petition is withdrawn after filing and resubmitted within 6 months, it shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and $1,600.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (c) of this section. If a petition is resubmitted after 6 months, it shall be accompanied by the deposit that would be required if it were being submitted for the first time.
(h) When the resubmission pertains to a petition that had been withdrawn before acceptance for filing, a new advance deposit shall be made in full as prescribed in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
(i) After a color additive has been listed, any request for an amendment or additional tolerance shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for use in the items specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or $1,600.00 for use in items specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(j) The fee for services in listing a diluent under § 80.35 for use in color additive mixtures shall be $250.00.
(k) Objections and request for public hearing under section 721(d) of the act or section 203(d)(2)(C) of Pub. L. 86-618 (74 Stat. 404; 21 U.S.C. 379e, note) shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $250.00.
(l) In the event of a referral of a petition under this section to an advisory committee, all costs related thereto (including personal compensation of committee members, travel materials, and other costs) shall be borne by the person or organization requesting the referral, such costs to be assessed on the basis of actual cost to the Government:
Provided,
That the compensation of such costs shall include personal compensation of advisory committee members at a rate not to exceed $75.00 per member per day.
(m) In the case of requests of referrals to advisory committees, a special advance deposit shall be made in the amount of $2,500.00. Where required, further advance in increments of $2,500.00 each shall be made upon request of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. All deposits for referrals to advisory committees in excess of actual expenses shall be refunded to the depositor.
(n) All requests for pharmacological or other scientific studies shall be accompanied by an advance deposit of $5,000.00. Further advance deposits shall be made upon request of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs when necessary to prevent arrears in such cost. Any deposits in excess of actual expenses will be refunded to the depositor. If a request is denied the advance deposit will be refunded less such costs as are incurred for review of the request.
(o) The person who files a petition for judicial review of an order under section 721(d) of the act shall pay the costs of preparing a transcript of the record on which the order is based.
(p) All deposits and fees required by the regulations in this section shall be paid by money order, bank draft or certified check drawn to the order of the Food and Drug Administration, collectible at par at Washington, DC All deposits and fees shall be forwarded to the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, whereupon after making appropriate record thereof they will be transmitted to the Treasurer of the United States for deposit in the special account “Salaries and Expenses, Certification, Inspection, and Other Services, Food and Drug Administration.”
(q) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs may waive or refund such fees in whole or in part when in his judgment such action will promote the public interest.
(r) Any person who believes that payment of these fees will work a hardship on him may petition the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to waive or refund the fees.
[42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 24890, June 12, 1989; 61 FR 14478, Apr. 2, 1996; 66 FR 56035, Nov. 6, 2001; 81 FR 49895, July 29, 2016]

# Subpart B—Packaging and Labeling
§ 70.20
Packaging requirements for straight colors (other than hair dyes).
Straight colors shall be packaged in containers which prevent changes in composition. Packages shall be sealed so that they cannot be opened without breaking the seal. An unavoidable change in moisture content caused by the ordinary and customary exposure that occurs in good storage, packing, and distribution practice is not considered a change in composition. If the packaging material is a food additive it shall be authorized by an appropriate regulation in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.
§ 70.25
Labeling requirements for color additives (other than hair dyes).
(a)
General labeling requirements.
All color additives shall be labeled with sufficient information to assure their safe use and to allow a determination of compliance with any limitations imposed by this part and parts 71, 73, 74, 80, and 81 of this chapter. In addition to all other information required by the act, labels for color additives, except those in a form suitable for coloring the human body, shall state:
(1) The name of the straight color or the name of each ingredient comprising the color additive, if it is a mixture.
(2) A statement indicating general limitations for the use of the color additive, such as “for food use only”; “for food, drug, and cosmetic use”; “for use in drugs for external application only.”
(3) Where regulations issued impose quantitative limitations for a general or specific use of a straight color, the amount of each such straight color in terms of weight per unit/volume or percent by weight.
(4) An expiration date if stability data require it.
(b)
Special labeling for color additives with tolerances.
Where tolerances are imposed for a general or specific use of a color additive, the label shall in addition provide directions for use of the color additive which if followed will preclude the food, drug, or cosmetic to which it is added from containing an amount of the color additive in excess of the tolerance.
(c)
Special labeling for color additives with other limitations.
If use of the color additive is subject to other limitations prescribed in this part, such limitations shall be stated on the label of the color additive by a plain and conspicuous statement. Examples of such limitation statements are: “Do not use in products used in the area of the eye”; “Do not use for coloring drugs for injection.”
(d)
Special labeling for color additives not exempt from certification.
Color additives not exempt from the certification procedures shall in addition include in the labeling the lot number assigned by the Color Certification Branch, except that in the case of any mixture for household use which contains not more than 15 percent of pure color and which is in packages containing not more than 3 ounces there appears on the label, a code number which the manufacturer has identified with the lot number by giving to the Food and Drug Administration written notice that such code number will be used in lieu of the lot number.

# Subpart C—Safety Evaluation
§ 70.40
Safety factors to be considered.
In accordance with section 721(b)(5)(A)(iii) of the act, the following safety factor will be applied in determining whether the proposed use of a color additive will be safe: Except where evidence is submitted which justifies use of a different safety factor, a safety factor of 100 to 1 will be used in applying animal experimentation data to man; that is, a color additive for use by man will not be granted a tolerance that will exceed 1/100th of the maximum no-effect level for the most susceptible experimental animals tested. The various species of experimental animals used in the tests shall conform to good pharmacological practice.
§ 70.42
Criteria for evaluating the safety of color additives.
(a) In deciding whether a petition is complete and suitable for filing and in reaching a decision on any petition filed, the Commissioner will apply the
“safe-for-use” principle. This will require the presentation of all needed scientific data in support of a proposed listing to assure that each listed color additive will be safe for its intended use or uses in or on food, drugs, or cosmetics. The Commissioner may list a color additive for use generally in or on food, in or on drugs, or in or on cosmetics when he finds from the data presented that such additive is suitable and may safely be employed for such general use; he may list an additive only for more limited use or uses for which it is proven suitable and may safely be employed; and he is authorized to prescribe broadly the conditions under which the additive may be safely employed for such use or uses. This may allow the use of a particular dye, pigment, or other substance with certain diluents, but not with others, or at a higher concentration with some than with others.
(b) The safety for external color additives will normally be determined by tests for acute oral toxicity, primary irritation, sensitization, subacute dermal toxicity on intact and abraded skin, and carcinogenicity by skin application. The Commissioner may waive any of such tests if data before him otherwise establish that such test is not required to determine safety for the use proposed.
(c) Upon written request describing the proposed use of a color additive and the proposed experiments to determine its safety, the Commissioner will advise a person who wishes to establish the safety of a color additive whether he believes the experiments planned will yield data adequate for an evaluation of the safety of the additive.
§ 70.45
Allocation of color additives.
Whenever, in the consideration of a petition or a proposal to list a color additive or to alter an existing listing, the data before the Commissioner fail to show that it would be safe to list the color additive for all the uses proposed or at the levels proposed, the Commissioner will notify the petitioner and other interested persons by publication in the
Federal Register
that it is necessary to allocate the safe tolerance for the straight color in the color additive among the competing needs. This notice shall call for the presentation of data by all interested persons on which the allocation can be made in accordance with section 721(b)(8) of the act. The time for acting upon the petition shall be stayed until such data are presented, whereupon the time limits shall begin to run anew. As promptly as possible after presentation of the data, the Commissioner will, by order, announce the allocation and the tolerance limitations.
§ 70.50
Application of the cancer clause of section 721 of the act.
(a)
Color additives that may be ingested.
Whenever (1) the scientific data before the Commissioner (either the reports from the scientific literature or the results of biological testing) suggest the possibility that the color additive including its components or impurities has induced cancer when ingested by man or animal; or (2) tests which are appropriate for the evaluation of the safety of additives in food suggest that the color additive, including its components or impurities, induces cancer in man or animal, the Commissioner shall determine whether, based on the judgment of appropriately qualified scientists, cancer has been induced and whether the color additive, including its components or impurities, was the causative substance. If it is his judgment that the data do not establish these facts, the cancer clause is not applicable; and if the data considered as a whole establish that the color additive will be safe under the conditions that can be specified in the applicable regulation, it may be listed for such use. But if in the judgment of the Commissioner, based on information from qualified scientists, cancer has been induced, no regulation may issue which permits its use.
(b)
Color additives that will not be ingested.
Whenever the scientific data before the Commissioner suggest the possibility that the color additive, including its components or impurities, has induced cancer in man or animals by routes other than ingestion, the Commissioner shall determine whether, based on the judgment of appropriately qualified scientists, the test suggesting the possibility of carcinogenesis is appropriate for the evaluation of the
color additive for a use which does not involve ingestion, cancer has been induced, and the color additive, including its components or impurities, was the causative substance. If it is his judgment that the data do not establish these facts, the cancer clause is not applicable to preclude external drug and cosmetic uses, and if the data as a whole establish that the color additive will be safe under conditions that can be specified in the regulations, it may be listed for such use. But if, in the judgment of the Commissioner, based on information from qualified scientists, the test is an appropriate one for the consideration of safety for the proposed external use, and cancer has been induced by the color additive, including its components or impurities, no regulation may issue which permits its use in external drugs and cosmetics.
(c)
Color additives for use as an ingredient of feed for animals that are raised for food production.
Color additives that are an ingredient of the feed for animals raised for food production and that have the potential to contaminate human food with residues whose consumption could present a risk of cancer to people must satisfy the requirements of subpart E of part 500 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 22675, May 26, 1978; 52 FR 49586, Dec. 31, 1987]
§ 70.51
Advisory committee on the applicability of the anticancer clause.
All requests for and procedures governing any advisory committee on the anticancer clause shall be subject to the provisions of part 14 of this chapter, and particularly subpart H of that part.
§ 70.55
Request for scientific studies.
The Commissioner will consider requests by any interested person who desires the Food and Drug Administration to conduct scientific studies to support a petition for a regulation for a color additive. If favorably acted upon, such studies will be limited to pharmacological investigations, studies of the chemical and physical structure of the color additive, and methods of analysis of the pure color additive (including impurities) and its identification and determination in foods, drugs, or cosmetics, as the case may be. All requests for such studies shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 70.19.
Pt. 71

# PART 71—COLOR ADDITIVE PETITIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
71.1
Petitions.
71.2
Notice of filing of petition.
71.4
Samples; additional information.
71.6
Extension of time for studying petitions; substantive amendments; withdrawal of petitions without prejudice.
71.15
Confidentiality of data and information in color additive petitions.
71.18
Petition for exemption from certification.

# Subpart B—Administrative Action on Petitions
71.20
Publication of regulation.
71.22
Deception as a basis for refusing to issue regulations; deceptive use of a color additive for which a regulation has issued.
71.25
Condition for certification.
71.26
Revocation of exemption from certification.
71.27
Listing and exemption from certification on the Commissioner's initiative.
71.30
Procedure for filing objections to regulations.
71.37
Exemption of color additives for investigational use.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348, 351, 355, 360, 360b-360f, 360h-360j, 361, 371, 379e, 381; 42 U.S.C. 216, 262.

# Source:
42 FR 15639, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 71.1
Petitions.
(a) Any interested person may propose the listing of a color additive for use in or on any food, drug, or cosmetic or for coloring the human body. Such proposal shall be made in a petition in the form prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. The petition shall be submitted in triplicate (quadruplicate, if intended uses include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product). If any part of the material submitted is
in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The petitioner shall state the post-office address in the United States to which published notices or orders issued or objections filed pursuant to section 721 of the act may be sent.
(b) Pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, a petition on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of the Food and Drug Administration. However, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized in a written statement signed by the person who submitted the information. Any reference to published information offered in support of a color additive petition should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references.
(c) Petitions shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form:
__________________ (Date)
Name of petitioner
Post-office address
Name of color additive and proposed use
Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200),
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition,
Food and Drug Administration,
5001 Campus Dr.,
College Park, MD 20740
Dear Sir:
Petitioner submits this pursuant to section 721(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act requesting listing by the Commissioner of the color additive __________ as suitable and safe for use in or on __________ subject to the conditions that ______________. [Petitioner may propose a listing for general use in food, drugs, or cosmetics or, if such general listing is not believed suitable and safe, the petitioner shall describe the conditions under which he believes the additive can be safely used and for which it will be suitable. These conditions may include tolerance limitations, specifications as to the manner in which the additive may be added or used, and directions and other labeling or packaging safeguards that should be applied. The level of use proposed should not be higher than reasonably required to accomplish the intended color effect.]
Attached hereto, in triplicate (quadruplicate, if intended uses include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product), and constituting a part of this petition are the following:
A. The name and all pertinent information concerning the color additive, including chemical identity and composition of the color additive, its physical, chemical, and biological properties, and specifications prescribing its component(s) and identifying and limiting the reaction byproducts and other impurities.
The petition shall contain a description of the chemical and physical tests relied upon to identify the color additive and shall contain a full description of the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the production of the color additive. These shall establish that it is a substance of reproducible composition. Alternative methods and controls and variations in methods and controls, within reasonable limits, that do not affect the characteristics of the substance or the reliability of the controls may be specified.
The petition shall supply a list of all substances used in the synthesis, extraction, or other method of preparation of any straight color, regardless of whether they undergo chemical change in the process. Each substance should be identified by its common or usual name and its complete chemical name, using structural formulas when necessary for specific identification. If any proprietary preparation is used as a component, the proprietary name should be followed by a complete quantitive statement of composition. Reasonable alternatives for any listed substance may be specified.
If the petitioner does not himself perform all the manufacturing, processing, and packing operations for a color additive, the petitioner shall identify each person who will perform a part of such operations and designate the part.
The petition shall include stability data, and, if the data indicate that it is needed to insure the identity, strength, quality, or purity of the color additive, the expiration period that will be employed as well as any packaging and labeling precautions needed to preserve stability.
B. The amount of the color additive proposed for use and the color effect intended to be achieved, together with all directions, recommendations, and suggestions regarding the proposed use, as well as specimens of the labeling proposed for the color additive. If the color effect results or may reasonably be expected to result from use of the color additive in packaging material, the petitioner shall show how this may occur and what residues may reasonably be anticipated.
Typewritten or other draft-labeling copy will be accepted for consideration of the petition provided final printed labeling identical in content to the draft copy is submitted as soon as available, and prior to the marketing of the color additive. The printed
labeling shall conform in prominence and conspicuousness with the requirements of the act.
If the color additive is one for which a tolerance limitation is required to assure its safety, the level of use proposed should be no higher than the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or other technical effect, even though the safety data may support a higher tolerance. If the safety data will not support the use of the amount of the color additive reasonably needed to accomplish the desired color effect, the requested tolerance will not be established. Petitioners are expected to propose the use of color additives in accordance with sound color chemistry.
C.1. A description of practicable methods to determine the pure color and all intermediates, subsidiary colors, and other components of the color additive.
2. A description of practicable methods to determine the amount of the color additive in any raw, processed, and/or finished food, drug, or cosmetic in which use of the color additive is proposed. (The tests proposed shall be those that can be used for food, drug, or cosmetic control purposes and can be applied with consistent results by any properly equipped laboratory and trained personnel.)
3. A description of methods for identification and determination of any substance formed in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic because of the use of the color additive. (If it is the petitioner's view that any such method would not be needed, under the terms of section 721(b)(5)(A)(iv), a statement shall be submitted in lieu of methods as to the basis for such view.)
D. Full reports of investigation made with respect to the safety of the color additive.
(A petition will be regarded as incomplete unless it includes full reports of adequate tests reasonably applicable to show whether or not the color additive will be safe for its intended use. The reports ordinarily should include detailed data derived from appropriate animal and other biological experiments in which the methods used and the results obtained are clearly set forth. The petition shall not omit without explanation any data that would influence the evaluation of the safety of the color additive).
E. Complete data which will allow the Commissioner to consider, among other things, the probable consumption of, and/or other relevant exposure from the additive and of any substance formed in or on food, drugs, or cosmetics because of such additive; and the cumulative effect, if any, of such additive in the diet of man or animals, taking into account the same or any chemically or pharmacologically related substance or substances in the diet including, but not limited to food additives and pesticide chemicals for which tolerances or exemptions from tolerances have been established.
F. Proposed tolerances and other limitations on the use of the color additive, if tolerances and limitations are required in order to insure its safety. A petitioner may include a proposed regulation.
G. If exemption from batch certification is requested, the reasons why it is believed such certification is not necessary (including supporting data to establish the safety of the intended use).
H. If submitting a petition to alter an existing regulation issued pursuant to section 721(b) of the act, full information on each proposed change that is to be made in the original regulation must be submitted. The petition may omit statements made in the original petition concerning which no change is proposed. A supplemental petition must be submitted for any change beyond the variations provided for in the original petition and the regulation issued on the basis of the original petition.
I. The prescribed fee of $____________ for admitting the color additive to listing is enclosed (unless there is an advance deposit adequate to cover the fee).
Yours very truly,
(Petitioner)
By ______________ (Indicate authority)
J. The petitioner is required to submit either a claim for categorical exclusion under § 25.30 or 25.32 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under § 25.40 of this chapter.
(d) The petitioner will be notified of the date on which his petition is filed; and an incomplete petition, or one that has not been submitted in triplicate, will be retained but not filed. A petition shall be retained but shall not be filed if any of the data listed in the above form are lacking or are not set forth so as to be readily understood or if the prescribed fee has not been submitted. The petitioner will be notified in what respects his petition is incomplete.
(e) The petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or authorized agent, who is a resident of the United States.
(f) The data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier petition.
(g) If nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, petitions filed with the Commissioner under section 721(b) of
the act shall include with respect to each nonclinical study contained in the petition, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) If clinical investigations involving human subjects are involved, petitions filed with the Commissioner under section 721(b) of the act shall include statements regarding each such clinical investigation contained in the petition that it either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter, or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with §§ 56.104 or 56.105, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter.
(j)(1) If intended uses of the color additive include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) under the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) (21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.
) or the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), FDA shall, upon filing of the petition, forward a copy of the petition or relevant portions thereof to the Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA, for simultaneous review under the PPIA and FMIA.
(2) FDA will ask USDA to advise whether the proposed meat and poultry uses comply with the FMIA and PPIA or, if not, whether use of the substance would be permitted in products under USDA jurisdiction under specified conditions or restrictions.
[42 FR 15639, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 60021, Dec. 22, 1978; 46 FR 8952, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 7491, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 54 FR 24890, June 12, 1989; 61 FR 14478, Apr. 2, 1996; 62 FR 40598, July 29, 1997; 65 FR 51762, Aug. 25, 2000; 66 FR 56035, Nov. 6, 2001; 81 FR 49895, July 29, 2016]
§ 71.2
Notice of filing of petition.
(a) Except where the petition involves a new drug, the Commissioner, within 15 days after receipt, will notify the petitioner of acceptance or nonacceptance of a petition, and if not accepted the reasons therefor. If accepted, the date of the notification letter sent to petitioner becomes the date of filing for the purposes of section 721(d)(1) of the act. If the petitioner desires, he may supplement a deficient petition after being notified regarding deficiencies. If the supplementary material or explanation of the petition is deemed acceptable, petitioner shall be notified. The date of such notification becomes the date of filing. If the petitioner does not wish to supplement or explain the petition and requests in writing that it be filed as submitted, the petition shall be filed and the petitioner so notified. The date of such notification becomes the date of filing. Where the petition involves a new drug, notification to the petitioner will be made in accordance with § 70.10(b)(3) of this chapter.
(b) The Commissioner will cause to be published in the
Federal Register
within 30 days from the date of filing of such petition a notice of the filing, the name of the petitioner, and a brief description of the proposal in general terms. A copy of the notice will be mailed to the petitioner when the original document is signed.
[42 FR 15639, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 64 FR 400, Jan. 5, 1999]
§ 71.4
Samples; additional information.
The Commissioner may request samples of the color additive, articles used as components thereof, or of the food, drug, or cosmetic in which the color additive is proposed to be used, or which comprises the color additive, and any additional information needed to clarify a submitted method or other aspect of a petition at any time while a petition is under consideration. The Commissioner shall specify in the request for a sample of the color additive, or articles used as components thereof, or of the food, drug, or cosmetic in which the color additive is proposed to be used, or which comprises the color additive, a quantity deemed adequate to permit tests of analytical methods to determine quantities of the color additive present in products for which it is intended to be
used or adequate for any study or investigation reasonably required with respect to the safety of the color additive or the physical or technical effect it produces. The date used for computing the 90-day limit for the purposes of section 721(d)(1) of the act shall be moved forward 1 day for each day, after mailing date of the request, taken by the petitioner to submit the information and/or sample. If the information or sample is requested a reasonable time in advance of the 180 days, but is not submitted within such 180 days after filing of the petition, the petition will be considered withdrawn without prejudice.
§ 71.6
Extension of time for studying petitions; substantive amendments; withdrawal of petitions without prejudice.
(a)
Extension of time for studying petitions.
If the Commissioner determines that additional time is needed to study and investigate the petition, he shall by written notice to the petitioner extend the 90-day period for not more than 180 days after the filing of the petition.
(b)
Substantive amendments.
After a petition has been filed, the petitioner may submit additional information or data in support thereof. In such cases, if the Commissioner determines that the additional information or data amounts to a substantive amendment, the petition as amended will be given a new filing date, and the time limitation will begin to run anew. If nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, additional information and data submitted in support of filed petitions shall include, with respect to each nonclinical laboratory study contained in the petition, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the requirements set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance. If clinical investigations involving human subjects are involved, additional information or data submitted in support of filed petitions shall include statements regarding each such clinical investigation from which the information or data are derived, that it either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter, or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with § 56.104 or § 56.105, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter.
(c)
Withdrawal of petitions without prejudice.
(1) In some cases the Commissioner may notify the petitioner that the petition, while technically complete, is inadequate to justify the establishment of a regulation or the regulation requested by petitioner. This may be due to the fact that the data are not sufficiently clear or complete. In such cases, the petitioner may withdraw the petition pending its clarification or the obtaining of additional data. This withdrawal will be without prejudice to a future filing. Upon refiling, the time limitation will begin to run anew from the date of refiling.
(2) At any time before the order provided for in § 71.20 has been forwarded to the
Federal Register
for publication the petitioner may withdraw the petition without prejudice to a future filing. Upon refiling, the time limitation will begin to run anew.
[42 FR 15636, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 60021, Dec. 22, 1978; 46 FR 8952, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 7491, Feb. 22, 1985]
§ 71.15
Confidentiality of data and information in color additive petitions.
(a) The following data and information in a color additive petition are available for public disclosure, unless extraordinary circumstances are shown, after the notice of filing of the petition is published in the
Federal Register
or, if the petition is not promptly filed because of deficiencies in it, after the petitioner is informed that it will not be filed because of the deficiencies involved:
(1) All safety and functionality data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the petition.
(2) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is shown to fall within the exemption established for trade secrets and confidential commercial information in § 20.61 of this chapter.
(3) Adverse reaction reports, product experience reports, consumer complaints, and other similar data and information, after deletion of:
(i) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product.
(ii) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician or hospital or other institution.
(4) A list of all ingredients contained in a color additive, whether or not it is in descending order of predominance. A particular ingredient or group of ingredients shall be deleted from any such list prior to public disclosure if it is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter, and a notation shall be made that any such ingredient list is incomplete.
(5) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter.
(6) All records showing the Food and Drug Administration's testing of or action on a particular lot of a certifiable color additive.
(b) The following data and information in a color additive petition are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter:
(1) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures.
(2) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.
(3) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.
(c) All correspondence and written summaries of oral discussions relating to a color additive petition are available for public disclosure in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter when the color additive regulation is published in the
Federal Register.
(d) For purposes of this regulation, safety and functionality data include all studies and tests of a color additive on animals and humans and all studies and tests on a color additive for identity, stability, purity, potency, performance, and usefulness.
§ 71.18
Petition for exemption from certification.
A manufacturer, packer, or distributor of a color additive or color additive mixture may petition for an exemption from certification pursuant to part 10 of this chapter. Any such petition shall show why such certification is not necessary for the protection of public health.

# Subpart B—Administrative Action on Petitions
§ 71.20
Publication of regulation.
The Commissioner will forward for publication in the
Federal Register,
within 90 days after filing of the petition (or within 180 days if the time is extended as provided for in section 721(d)(1) of the act):
(a) A regulation listing in part 73 or 74 of this chapter the color additive on the appropriate list or lists as provided under section 721(b)(1).
(1) Such a regulation may list the color additive for use generally in or on foods, drugs, or cosmetics or for use in coloring the human body, as the case may be, or may prescribe the conditions under which the color additive may be safely used (including, but not limited to, specifications as to the particular food, drug, or cosmetic or classes of food, drugs, or cosmetics in or on which such color additive may be used, or for the material intended for coloring the human body; the maximum quantity of any straight color or diluent that may be used or permitted to remain in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic or article intended for coloring the human body; the manner in which such color additive may be added to or used in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic or for coloring the human body; and any directions or other labeling or
packing requirements for such color additives deemed necessary to assure the safety of such use).
(2) Such regulations shall list the color additive only for the use or uses for which it has been found suitable and for which it may safely be employed. Alternatively, the Commissioner shall by order deny the petition, and notify the petitioner of such order and the reasons therefor.
(3) The regulation shall list any use or uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) or the Poultry Products Inspection (PPIA) (21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.
) for which the color additive has been found suitable and for which it may safely be employed.
(b) Whenever the Commissioner finds that batch certification is not necessary for the protection of the public health he will, by order, exempt the color additive from the certification procedure. In determining whether certification of a color additive is necessary, the Commissioner will consider the composition of the additive, its manufacturing process, possible impurities, its toxic potential, control and analytical procedures necessary to assure compliance with the listing specifications, and the variability of its composition.
[42 FR 15639, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 65 FR 51762, Aug. 25, 2000]
§ 71.22
Deception as a basis for refusing to issue regulations; deceptive use of a color additive for which a regulation has issued.
The Commissioner shall refuse to issue a regulation listing a color additive, if in his judgment the data before him show that such proposed use would promote deception of the consumer or would result in misbranding or adulteration within the meaning of the act. Such a finding shall be by order published in the
Federal Register
subject to the filing of objections and a request for a hearing by adversely affected parties. The issuance of a regulation for a color additive authorizing its use generally in or on a food, drug, or cosmetic shall not be construed as authorization to use the color additive in a manner that may promote deception or conceal damage or inferiority. The use of a color additive to promote deception or conceal damage or inferiority shall be considered as the use of a color additive for which no regulation has issued pursuant to section 721(b) of the act, even though the regulation is effective for other uses.
§ 71.25
Condition for certification.
(a) When the Commissioner cannot conclude from the information before him that there is a basis for exempting a color additive from the requirement of batch certification, he will so order by appropriate listing in part 74 of this chapter. The Commissioner's order shall state in detail the specifications that shall be met by the color additive.
(b) Each order shall state a period of time after which use of a color additive subject to batch certification but not from a batch certified by procedure prescribed in this section would result in adulteration of the product in which it is used.
§ 71.26
Revocation of exemption from certification.
If information becomes available to the Commissioner that a color additive that has been granted exemption from certification should not, for the protection of the public health, be so exempted, such exemption will be canceled by a notice published in the
Federal Register.
§ 71.27
Listing and exemption from certification on the Commissioner's initiative.
Where a petition for a regulation to list a color additive has not been received and the Commissioner has available facts which demonstrate that a color additive should be listed and/or that certification procedure is not necessary in order to protect the public health, he may list such color additive by appropriate regulation and listing in part 73 or 74 of this chapter.
§ 71.30
Procedure for filing objections to regulations.
(a) Objections and hearings relating to color additive regulations under section 721 (b) and (c) of the act shall be governed by parts 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 19 of this chapter.
(b) The fees specified in § 70.19 of this chapter shall be applicable.
§ 71.37
Exemption of color additives for investigational use.
(a) A shipment or other delivery of a color additive or of a food, drug, or cosmetic containing such a color additive for investigational use by experts qualified to determine safety shall be exempt from the requirements of section 402(c), 501(a), or 601(e) of the act, provided that the color additive or the food, drug, or cosmetic containing the color additive bears a label which states prominently, “Caution—Contains new color additive—For investigational use only.” No animals used in such investigations, or their products, such as milk or eggs, shall be used for food purposes, unless the sponsor or the investigator has submitted to the Commissioner data demonstrating that such use will be consistent with the public health, and the Commissioner, proceeding as he would in a matter involving section 409(i) of the act, has notified the sponsor or investigator that the proposed disposition for food is authorized. Any person who contests a refusal to grant such authorization shall have an opportunity for a regulatory hearing before the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to part 16 of this chapter.
(b) The person who introduced such shipment or who delivers the color additive or a food, drug, or cosmetic containing such an additive into interstate commerce shall maintain adequate records showing the name and post-office address of the expert to whom the color additive is shipped, date, quantity, and batch or code mark of each shipment and delivery for a period of 2 years after such shipment and delivery. Upon the request of a properly authorized employee of the Department, at reasonable times, he shall make such records available for inspection and copying.
Pt. 73

# PART 73—LISTING OF COLOR ADDITIVES EXEMPT FROM CERTIFICATION

# Subpart A—Foods
Sec.
73.1
Diluents in color additive mixtures for food use exempt from certification.
73.30
Annatto extract.
73.32
Antarctic krill meal.
73.35
Astaxanthin.
73.37
Astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate.
73.40
Dehydrated beets (beet powder).
73.50
Ultramarine blue.
73.69
Butterfly pea flower extract.
73.70
Calcium carbonate.
73.75
Canthaxanthin.
73.85
Caramel.
73.90
β-Apo-8′-carotenal.
73.95
β-Carotene.
73.100
Cochineal extract; carmine.
73.125
Sodium copper chlorophyllin.
73.140
Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour.
73.160
Ferrous gluconate.
73.165
Ferrous lactate.
73.169
Grape color extract.
73.170
Grape skin extract (enocianina).
73.185
Haematococcus algae meal.
73.200
Synthetic iron oxide.
73.225
Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue.
73.250
Fruit juice.
73.260
Vegetable juice.
73.275
Dried algae meal.
73.295
Tagetes (Aztec marigold) meal and extract.
73.297
Myoglobin.
73.300
Carrot oil.
73.315
Corn endosperm oil.
73.340
Paprika.
73.345
Paprika oleoresin.
73.350
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
73.352
Paracoccus pigment.
73.355
Phaffia yeast.
73.450
Riboflavin.
73.500
Saffron.
73.520
Soy leghemoglobin.
73.530
Spirulina extract.
73.575
Titanium dioxide.
73.585
Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate.
73.600
Turmeric.
73.615
Turmeric oleoresin.

# Subpart B—Drugs
73.1001
Diluents in color additive mixtures for drug use exempt from certification.
73.1010
Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide).
73.1015
Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide.
73.1025
Ferric ammonium citrate.
73.1030
Annatto extract.
73.1070
Calcium carbonate.
73.1075
Canthaxanthin.
73.1085
Caramel.
73.1095
β-Carotene.
73.1100
Cochineal extract; carmine.
73.1125
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex).
73.1150
Dihydroxyacetone.
73.1162
Bismuth oxychloride.
73.1200
Synthetic iron oxide.
73.1298
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide.
73.1299
Ferric ferrocyanide.
73.1326
Chromium hydroxide green.
73.1327
Chromium oxide greens.
73.1329
Guanine.
73.1350
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
73.1375
Pyrogallol.
73.1400
Pyrophyllite.
73.1410
Logwood extract.
73.1496
Mica.
73.1530
Spirulina extract.
73.1550
Talc.
73.1575
Titanium dioxide.
73.1645
Aluminum powder.
73.1646
Bronze powder.
73.1647
Copper powder.
73.1991
Zinc oxide.

# Subpart C—Cosmetics
73.2030
Annatto.
73.2085
Caramel.
73.2087
Carmine.
73.2095
β-Carotene.
73.2110
Bismuth citrate.
73.2120
Disodium EDTA-copper.
73.2125
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex).
73.2150
Dihydroxyacetone.
73.2162
Bismuth oxychloride.
73.2180
Guaiazulene.
73.2190
Henna.
73.2250
Iron oxides.
73.2298
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide.
73.2299
Ferric ferrocyanide.
73.2326
Chromium hydroxide green.
73.2327
Chromium oxide greens.
73.2329
Guanine.
73.2400
Pyrophyllite.
73.2496
Mica.
73.2500
Silver.
73.2550
Silver nitrate.
73.2575
Titanium dioxide.
73.2645
Aluminum powder.
73.2646
Bronze powder.
73.2647
Copper powder.
73.2725
Ultramarines.
73.2775
Manganese violet.
73.2991
Zinc oxide.
73.2995
Luminescent zinc sulfide.

# Subpart D—Medical Devices
73.3100
1,4-Bis[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2-methyl-2-propenoic)ester copolymers.
73.3105
1,4-Bis[(2-methylphenyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione.
73.3106
1,4-Bis[4-(2-methacryloxyethyl)phenylamino]anthraquinone copolymers.
73.3107
Carbazole violet.
73.3110
Chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble.
73.3110a
Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide.
73.3111
Chromium oxide greens.
73.3112
C.I. Vat Orange 1.
73.3115
2-[[2,5-Diethoxy-4-[(4-methylphenyl)thiol]phenyl]azo]-1,3,5-benzenetriol.
73.3117
16,23-Dihydrodinaphtho[2,3-a:2′,3′-i] naphth [2′,3′:6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole-5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone.
73.3118
N,N′-(9,10-Dihydro-9,10-dioxo-1,5-anthracenediyl) bisbenzamide.
73.3119
7,16-Dichloro-6,15-dihydro-5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone.
73.3120
16,17-Dimethoxydinaphtho [1,2,3-cd:3′,2′,1′-lm] perylene-5,10-dione.
73.3121
Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate)-dye copolymers.
73.3122
4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]-2,4-dihydro-5-methyl-2-phenyl-3H-pyrazol-3-one.
73.3123
6-Ethoxy-2-(6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b]thien-2(3H)-ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen-3 (2H)-one.
73.3124
Phthalocyanine green.
73.3125
Iron oxides.
73.3126
Titanium dioxide.
73.3127
Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products.
73.3128
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
73.3129
Disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2-bromo-1-oxoallyl)amino]-2-sulfonatophenyl]amino]-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxoanthracene-2-sulfonate.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 341, 342, 343, 348, 351, 352, 355, 361, 362, 371, 379e.

# Source:
42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 73 appear at 66 FR 66742, Dec. 27, 2001.

# Subpart A—Foods
§ 73.1
Diluents in color additive mixtures for food use exempt from certification.
The following substances may be safely used as diluents in color additive mixtures for food use exempt from certification, subject to the condition that each straight color in the mixture has been exempted from certification or, if not so exempted, is from a batch that has previously been certified and has not changed in composition since certification. If a specification for a particular diluent is not set forth in this part 73, the material shall be of a purity consistent with its intended use.
(a)
General use.
(1) Substances that are generally recognized as safe under the conditions set forth in section 201(s) of the act.
(2) Substances meeting the definitions and specifications set forth under subchapter B of this chapter, and which are used only as prescribed by such regulations.
(3) The following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Restrictions
Calcium disodium EDTA (calcium disodium ethyl- enediamine- tetraacetate)
Contains calcium disodium ethyl- enediamine- tetraacetate dihydrate (CAS Reg. No. 6766-87-6) as set forth in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d ed., p. 50, 1981
May be used in aqueous solutions and aqueous dispersions as a preservative and sequestrant in color additive mixtures intended only for ingested use; the color additive mixture (solution or dispersion) may contain not more than 1 percent by weight of the diluent (calculated as anhydrous calcium disodium ethyl-enediamine-tetraacetate).
Castor oil
As set forth in U.S.P. XVI
Not more than 500 p.p.m. in the finished food. Labeling of color additive mixtures containing castor oil shall bear adequate directions for use that will result in a food meeting this restriction.
Dioctylsodium sulfosuccinate
As set forth in sec. 172.810 of this chapter
Not more than 9 p.p.m. in the finished food. Labeling of color additive mixtures containing dioctylsodium sulfosuccinate shall bear adequate directions for use that will result in a food meeting this restriction.
Disodium EDTA (disodium ethyl- enediamine- tetraacetate)
Contains disodium ethyl- enediamine- tetraacetate dihydrate (CAS Reg. No. 6381-92-6) as set forth in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d ed., p. 104, 1981
May be used in aqueous solutions and aqueous dispersions as a preservative and sequestrant in color additive mixtures intended only for ingested use; the color additive mixture (solution or dispersion) may contain not more than 1 percent by weight of the diluent (calculated as anhydrous disodium ethyl- enediamine- tetraacetate).
(b)
Special use
—(1)
Diluents in color additive mixtures for marking food
—(i)
Inks for marking food supplements in tablet form, gum, and confectionery.
Items listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Restrictions
Alcohol, SDA-3A
As set forth in 26 CFR pt. 212
No residue.
n
-Butyl alcohol
Do.
Cetyl alcohol
As set forth in N.F. XI
Do.
Cyclohexane
Do.
Ethyl cellulose
As set forth in sec. 172.868 of this chapter
Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether
Do.
Isobutyl alcohol
Do.
Isopropyl alcohol
Do.
Polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate (polysorbate 80)
As set forth in sec. 172.840 of this chapter
Polyvinyl acetate
Molecular weight, minimum 2,000
Polyvinylpyrrolidone
As set forth in sec. 173.55 of this chapter
Rosin and rosin derivatives
As set forth in sec. 172.615 of this chapter
Shellac, purified
Food grade
(ii)
Inks for marking fruit and vegetables.
Items listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Restrictions
Acetone
As set forth in N.F. XI
No residue.
Alcohol, SDA-3A
As set forth in 26 CFR pt. 212
Do.
Benzoin
As set forth in U.S.P. XVI
Copal, Manila
Ethyl acetate
As set forth in N.F. XI
Do.
Ethyl cellulose
As set forth in sec. 172.868 of this chapter
Methylene chloride
Do.
Polyvinylpyrrolidone
As set forth in sec. 173.55 of this chapter
Rosin and rosin derivatives
As set forth in sec. 172.615 of this chapter
Silicon dioxide
As set forth in sec. 172.480 of this chapter
Not more than 2 pct of the ink solids.
Terpene resins, natural
As set forth in sec. 172.615 of this chapter
Terpene resins, synthetic
Polymers of α- and β-pinene
(2)
Diluents in color additive mixtures for coloring shell eggs.
Items listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the following, subject to the condition that there is no penetration of the color additive mixture or any of its components through the eggshell into the egg:
Alcohol, denatured, formula 23A (26 CFR part 212), Internal Revenue Service.
Damar gum (resin).
Diethylene glycol distearate.
Dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate.
Ethyl cellulose (as identified in § 172.868 of this chapter).
Ethylene glycol distearate.
Japan wax.
Limed rosin.
Naphtha.
Pentaerythritol ester of fumaric acid-rosin adduct.
Polyethylene glycol 6000 (as identified in § 172.820 of this chapter).
Polyvinyl alcohol.
Rosin and rosin derivatives (as identified in § 172.615 of this chapter).
(3)
Miscellaneous special uses.
Items listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Restrictions
Polyvinylpyrrolidone
As set forth in sec. 173.55 of this chapter
In or as food-tablet coatings; limit, not more than 0.1 pct in the finished food; labeling of color additive mixtures containing polyvinylpyrrolidone shall bear adequate directions for use that will result in a food meeting this restriction.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 57 FR 32175, July 21, 1992; 69 FR 24511, May 4, 2004]
§ 73.30
Annatto extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive annatto extract is an extract prepared from annatto seed,
Bixa orellana
L., using any one or an appropriate combination of the food-grade extractants listed in paragraph (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) Alkaline aqueous solution, alkaline propylene glycol, ethyl alcohol or alkaline solutions thereof, edible vegetable oils or fats, mono- and diglycerides from the glycerolysis of edible vegetable oils or fats. The alkaline alcohol or aqueous extracts may be treated with food-grade acids to precipitate annatto pigments, which are separated from the liquid and dried, with or without intermediate recrystallization, using the solvents listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. Food-grade alkalis or carbonates may be added to adjust alkalinity.
(ii) Acetone, ethylene dichloride, hexane, isopropyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, methylene chloride, trichloroethylene.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with annatto extract may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Annatto extract, including pigments precipitated therefrom, shall conform to the following specifications:
(1) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million; lead as Pb, not more than 10 parts per million.
(2) When solvents listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section are used, annatto extract shall contain no more solvent residue than is permitted of the corresponding solvents in spice oleoresins under applicable food additive regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Annatto extract may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter. Labels shall bear information showing that the color is derived from annatto seed. The requirements of § 70.25(a) of this chapter that all ingredients shall be listed by name shall not be construed as requiring the declaration of residues of solvents listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.32
Antarctic krill meal.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive Antarctic krill meal consists of the cooked, dried, and ground biomass of whole
Euphausia superba
(Antarctic krill), with or without removal of the lipid fraction. The lipid fraction may be fully or partially extracted with ethanol, followed by removal of residual ethanol, to produce defatted Antarctic krill meal. Whole Antarctic krill meal, produced when the lipid fraction is not removed, may contain ethoxyquin as a preservative.
(2) Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with Antarctic krill meal may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Antarctic krill meal must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Physical state, solid.
(2) Ethoxyquin, not more than 250 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (250 parts per million (ppm)) in whole Antarctic krill meal.
(3) Lead, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm).
(4) Arsenic, not more than 5 mg/kg (5 ppm).
(5) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(6) Cadmium, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm).
(7) Fluoride, not more than 2,500 mg/kg (2,500 ppm).
(8) Astaxanthin, not more than 170 mg/kg (170 ppm) in whole Antarctic krill meal; not more than 90 mg/kg (90 ppm) in defatted Antarctic krill meal.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Antarctic krill meal may be safely used in salmonid feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish;
(2) The color additive may be used at levels not to exceed 4 percent by weight in freshwater salmonid feed and 12 percent by weight in marine salmonid feed;
(3) The quantity of the color additive incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed meets the tolerance limitation for ethoxyquin in animal feed prescribed in § 573.380 of this chapter; and
(4) The quantity of astaxanthin in the finished feed, from Antarctic krill meal when used alone or in combination with other astaxanthin color additive sources listed in this part, must not exceed 80 mg/kg astaxanthin (72 grams per ton) in the finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom must bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing
methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, a statement of the concentration of ethoxyquin contained therein (whole Antarctic krill meal only), and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section must be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing Antarctic krill meal must be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2) and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[87 FR 27935, May 10, 2022]
§ 73.35
Astaxanthin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive astaxanthin is 3, 3′-dihydroxy-β, β-carotene-4, 4′-dione.
(2) Astaxanthin may be added to the fish feed only as a component of a stabilized color additive mixture. Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with astaxanthin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Astaxanthin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Physical state, solid.
0.05 percent solution in chloroform, complete and clear.
Absorption maximum wavelength 484-493 nanometers (in chloroform).
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.1 percent.
Total carotenoids other than astaxanthin, not more than 4 percent.
Lead, not more than 5 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 2 parts per million.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Heavy metals, not more than 10 parts per million.
Assay, minimum 96 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Astaxanthin may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish.
(2) The quantity of color additive in feed is such that the color additive shall not exceed 80 milligrams per kilogram (72 grams per ton) of finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing astaxanthin shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(k)(2) and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[60 FR 18738, Apr. 13, 1995]
§ 73.37
Astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate is 3,3′-bis(4-methoxy-1,4-dioxobutoxy)-β,β-carotene-4,4′-dione.
(2) Astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate may be added to the fish feed only as a component of a stabilized mixture. Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in
color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Physical state, solid.
(2) 0.05 percent solution in chloroform, complete and clear.
(3) Absorption maximum wavelength 484-493 nanometers (in chloroform).
(4) Residue on ignition, not more than 0.1 percent.
(5) Total carotenoids other than astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate, not more than 4 percent.
(6) Lead, not more than 5 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (5 parts per million).
(7) Arsenic, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 parts per million).
(8) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 part per million).
(9) Heavy metals, not more than 10 mg/kg (10 parts per million).
(10) Assay including astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate, astaxanthin monomethylsuccinate, and astaxanthin, minimum 96 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish.
(2) The quantity of astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate in the finished feed, when used alone or in combination with other astaxanthin color additive sources listed in this part 73, shall not exceed 110 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg), which is equivalent to 80 mg/kg astaxanthin (72 grams per ton).
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing astaxanthin dimethyldisuccinate shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2), and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[74 FR 57251, Nov. 5, 2009]
§ 73.40
Dehydrated beets (beet powder).
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive dehydrated beets is a dark red powder prepared by dehydrating sound, mature, good quality, edible beets.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with dehydrated beets may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive shall conform to the following specifications:
Volatile matter, not more than 4 percent.
Acid insoluble ash, not more than 0.5 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Dehydrated beets may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.50
Ultramarine blue.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive ultramarine blue is a blue pigment obtained by calcining a mixture of kaolin, sulfur, sodium carbonate, and carbon at temperatures above 700 °C. Sodium sulfate and silica may also be incorporated in the mixture in order to vary the shade. The pigment is a complex sodium aluminum sulfo-silicate having the approximate formula Na
7
Ai
6
Si
6
O
2
4
S
3
.
(b)
Specifications.
Ultramarine blue shall conform to the following specifications:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive ultramarine blue may be safely used for coloring salt intended for animal feed subject to the restriction that the quantity of ultramarine blue does not exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the salt.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The color additive shall be labeled in accordance with the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.69
Butterfly pea flower extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive butterfly pea flower extract is a dark blue liquid prepared by the aqueous extraction of dried butterfly pea flowers from
Clitoria ternatea.
The extract is further processed by ultrafiltration to remove residues of plant products, followed by concentration and pasteurization. Citric acid may be used to control the pH. The color additive contains anthocyanins as the principal coloring component.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with butterfly pea flower extract may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Butterfly pea flower extract must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) pH, not less than 3.0 and not more than 4.5 at 25 °C.
(2) Lead, not more than 1 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) (1 part per million (ppm)).
(3) Arsenic, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(4) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(5) Cadmium, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Butterfly pea flower extract may be safely used for coloring alcoholic beverages, sport and energy drinks, flavored or carbonated water, fruit drinks (including smoothies and grain drinks), carbonated soft drinks (fruit-flavored or juice, ginger ale, and root beer), fruit and vegetable juice, nutritional beverages, chewing gum, teas, coated nuts, liquid coffee creamers (dairy and non-dairy), ice cream and frozen dairy desserts, hard candy, dairy and non-dairy drinks, fruit preparations in yogurts, and soft candy in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used for coloring foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not
necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[86 FR 49233, Sept. 2, 2021]
§ 73.70
Calcium carbonate.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive calcium carbonate is a fine, white powder consisting essentially of calcium carbonate (CaCO
3
) prepared either by grinding naturally occurring limestone or synthetically, by precipitation.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with calcium carbonate may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Calcium carbonate must meet the specifications given in calcium carbonate (FCC 13) and limestone, ground (FCC 13).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Calcium carbonate may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color dietary supplement tablets and capsules (including coatings and printing inks), soft and hard candies and mints, and in inks used on the surface of chewing gum, except that it may not be used to color chocolate for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and, therefore, batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(f)
Incorporation by reference.
Material listed in this paragraph (f) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Food and Drug Administration and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the Food and Drug Administration between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday at: Dockets Management Staff, (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov;
website:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
You may obtain the material from the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention, 12601 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20852; website:
www.usp.org.
(1) Limestone, Ground,
Food Chemicals Codex,
13th edition, effective June 1, 2022 (FCC 13).
(2) Calcium Carbonate,
Food Chemicals Codex,
13th edition, effective June 1, 2022 (FCC 13).
[82 FR 51557, Nov. 7, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 58448, Sept. 27, 2022]
§ 73.75
Canthaxanthin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive canthaxanthin is β-carotene-4,4′-dione.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with canthaxanthin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Canthaxanthin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Physical state, solid.
1 percent solution in chloroform, complete and clear.
Melting range (decomposition), 207 °C. to 212 °C. (corrected).
Loss on drying, not more than 0.2 percent.
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.2 percent.
Total carotenoids other than trans-canthaxanthin, not more than 5 percent.
Lead, not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Assay, 96 to 101 percent.
(c)
Use and restrictions.
(1) The color additive canthaxanthin may be safely
used for coloring foods generally subject to the following restrictions:
(i) The quantity of canthaxanthin does not exceed 30 milligrams per pound of solid or semisolid food or per pint of liquid food; and
(ii) It may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(2) Canthaxanthin may be safely used in broiler chicken feed to enhance the yellow color of broiler chicken skin in accordance with the following conditions: The quantity of canthaxanthin incorporated in the feed shall not exceed 4.41 milligrams per kilogam (4 grams per ton) of complete feed to supplement other known sources of xanthophyll and associated carotenoids to accomplish the intended effect.
(3) Canthaxanthin may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(i) Canthaxanthin may be added to the fish feed only in the form of a stabilized color additive mixture;
(ii) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish; and
(iii) The quantity of color additive in feed shall not exceed 80 milligrams per kilogram (72 grams per ton) of finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(2) For purposes of coloring fish, the labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates (established through generally accepted stability testing methods) for the sealed and open container, other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(4) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing canthaxanthin shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2), and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 47534, Nov. 19, 1985; 63 FR 14817, Mar. 27, 1998]
§ 73.85
Caramel.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive caramel is the dark-brown liquid or solid material resulting from the carefully controlled heat treatment of the following food-grade carbohydrates:
Dextrose.
Invert sugar.
Lactose.
Malt sirup.
Molasses.
Starch hydrolysates and fractions thereof.
Sucrose.
(2) The food-grade acids, alkalis, and salts listed in this subparagraph may be employed to assist caramelization, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(i) Acids:
Acetic acid.
Citric acid.
Phosphoric acid.
Sulfuric acid.
Sulfurous acid.
(ii) Alkalis:
Ammonium hydroxide.
Calcium hydroxide U.S.P.
Potassium hydroxide.
Sodium hydroxide.
(iii) Salts: Ammonium, sodium, or potassium carbonate, bicarbonate, phosphate (including dibasic phosphate and monobasic phosphate), sulfate, and sulfite.
(3) Polyglycerol esters of fatty acids, identified in § 172.854 of this chapter, may be used as antifoaming agents in amounts not greater than that required to produce the intended effect.
(4) Color additive mixtures for food use made with caramel may contain only diluents that are suitable and
that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Caramel shall conform to the following specifications:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 0.1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Caramel may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.90
β-Apo-8′-carotenal.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive is β-apo-8′-carotenal.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with β-apo-8′-carotenal may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
β-Apo-8′-carotenal shall conform to the following specifications:
Physical state, solid.
1 percent solution in chloroform, clear.
Melting point (decomposition), 136 °C.-140 °C. (corrected).
Loss of weight on drying, not more than 0.2 percent.
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Assay (spectrophotometric), 96-101 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive β-apo-8′-carotenal may be safely used for coloring foods generally, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The quantity of β-apo-8′-carotenal does not exceed 15 milligrams per pound of solid or semisolid food or 15 milligrams per pint of liquid food.
(2) It may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.95
β-Carotene.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive is β-carotene prepared synthetically or obtained from natural sources.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with β-carotene may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
β-carotene shall conform to the following specifications:
Physical state, solid.
1 percent solution in chloroform, clear.
Loss of weight on drying, not more than 0.2 percent.
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Assay (spectrophotometric), 96-101 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive β-carotene may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color those foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the
act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.100
Cochineal extract; carmine.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive cochineal extract is the concentrated solution obtained after removing the alcohol from an aqueous-alcoholic extract of cochineal (
Dactylopius coccus costa
(
Coccus cacti
L.)). The coloring principle is chiefly carminic acid.
(2) The color additive carmine is the aluminum or calcium-aluminum lake on an aluminum hydroxide substrate of the coloring principles, chiefly carminic acid, obtained by an aqueous extraction of cochineal (
Dactylopius coccus costa
(
Coccus cacti
L.)).
(3) Color additive mixtures for food use made with cochineal extract or carmine may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
(1) Cochineal extract shall conform to the following specifications:
pH, not less than 5.0 and not more than 5.5 at 25 °C.
Protein (N × 6.25), not more than 2.2 percent.
Total solids, not less than 5.7 and not more than 6.3 percent.
Methyl alcohol, not more than 150 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Carminic acid, not less than 1.8 percent.
(2) Carmine shall conform to the following specifications:
Volatile matter (at 135 °C. for 3 hours), not more than 20.0 percent.
Ash, not more than 12.0 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Carminic acid, not less than 50.0 percent.
Carmine and cochineal extract shall be pasteurized or otherwise treated to destroy all viable Salmonella microorganisms. Pasteurization or such other treatment is deemed to permit the adding of safe and suitable substances (other than chemical preservatives) that are essential to the method of pasteurization or other treatment used. For the purposes of this paragraph, safe and suitable substances are those substances that perform a useful function in the pasteurization or other treatment to render the carmine and cochineal extract free of viable Salmonella microorganisms, which substances are not food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the act or, if they are food additives as so defined, are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Carmine and cochineal extract may be safely used for coloring foods generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that they may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The label of the color additives and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(2) The label of food products intended for human use, including butter, cheese, and ice cream, that contain cochineal extract or carmine shall specifically declare the presence of the color additive by listing its respective common or usual name, “cochineal extract” or “carmine,” in the statement of ingredients in accordance with § 101.4 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 74 FR 216, Jan. 5, 2009]
§ 73.125
Sodium copper chlorophyllin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive sodium copper chlorophyllin is a green to black powder prepared from chlorophyll by saponification and replacement of magnesium by copper. Chlorophyll is extracted from alfalfa (
Medicago sativa
) using any one or a combination of the solvents acetone, ethanol, and hexane.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with sodium copper chlorophyllin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Sodium copper chlorophyllin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Moisture, not more than 5.0 percent.
(2) Solvent residues (acetone, ethanol, and hexane), not more than 50 parts per million, singly or, in combination.
(3) Total copper, not less than 4 percent and not more than 6 percent.
(4) Free copper, not more than 200 parts per million.
(5) Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
(6) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
(7) Mercury (as Hg), not more than 0.5 part per million.
(8) Ratio of absorbance at 405 nanometers (nm) to absorbance at 630 nm, not less than 3.4 and not more than 3.9.
(9) Total copper chlorophyllins, not less than 95 percent of the sample dried at 100 °C for 1 hour.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Sodium copper chlorophyllin may be safely used to color citrus-based dry beverage mixes in an amount not exceeding 0.2 percent in the dry mix.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[67 FR 35431, May 20, 2002]
§ 73.140
Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour is a product prepared as follows: Food quality cottonseed is delinted and decorticated; the meats are screened, aspirated, and rolled; moisture is adjusted, the meats heated, and the oil expressed; the cooked meats are cooled, ground, and reheated to obtain a product varying in shade from light to dark brown.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour shall conform to the following specifications:
Arsenic: It contains no added arsenic compound and therefore may not exceed a maximum natural background level of 0.2 part per million total arsenic, calculated as As.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Free gossypol content, not more than 450 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof
are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.160
Ferrous gluconate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive ferrous gluconate is the ferrous gluconate defined in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 122-123, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b)
Specifications.
Ferrous gluconate shall meet the specifications given in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferrous gluconate may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice for the coloring of ripe olives.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 946, Jan. 8, 1982; 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.165
Ferrous lactate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive ferrous lactate is the ferrous lactate defined in § 184.1311 of this chapter.
(b)
Specifications.
Ferrous lactate shall meet the specifications given in the Food Chemicals Codex, 4th ed. (1996), pp. 154 to 155, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferrous lactate may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice for the coloring of ripe olives.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act).
[61 FR 40319, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 66742, Dec. 27, 2001; 81 FR 5590, Feb. 3, 2016]
§ 73.169
Grape color extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive grape color extract is an aqueous solution of anthocyanin grape pigments made from Concord grapes or a dehydrated water soluble powder prepared from the aqueous solution. The aqueous solution is prepared by extracting the pigments from precipitated lees produced during the storage of Concord grape juice. It contains the common components of grape juice, namely anthocyanins, tartrates, malates, sugars, and minerals, etc., but not in the same proportion as found in grape juice. The dehydrated water soluble powder is prepared by spray drying the aqueous solution containing added malto-dextrin.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with grape color extract may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Grape color extract shall conform to the following specifications: Pesticide residues, not more than permitted in or on grapes by regulations promulgated under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Lead (as Pb), not more than
10 parts per million. Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Grape color extract may be safely used for the coloring of nonbeverage food, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Act.
[46 FR 47532, Sept. 29, 1981]
§ 73.170
Grape skin extract (enocianina).
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive grape skin extract (enocianina) is a purplish-red liquid prepared by the aqueous extraction (steeping) of the fresh deseeded marc remaining after grapes have been pressed to produce grape juice or wine. It contains the common components of grape juice; namely, anthocyanins, tartaric acid, tannins, sugars, minerals, etc., but not in the same proportions as found in grape juice. During the steeping process, sulphur dioxide is added and most of the extracted sugars are fermented to alcohol. The extract is concentrated by vacuum evaporation, during which practically all of the alcohol is removed. A small amount of sulphur dioxide may be present.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with grape skin extract (enocianina) may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Grape skin extract (enocianina) shall conform to the following specifications:
Pesticide residues, not more than permitted in or on grapes by regulations promulgated under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Grape skin extract (enocianina) may be safely used for the coloring of still and carbonated drinks and ades, beverage bases, and alcoholic beverages subject to the following restrictions:
(1) It may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless artificial color is authorized by such standards.
(2) Its use in alcoholic beverages shall be in accordance with the provisions of parts 4 and 5, title 27 CFR.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter. The common or usual name of the color additive is “grape skin extract” followed, if desired, by “(enocianina)”.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.185
Haematococcus algae meal.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive haematococcus algae meal consists of the comminuted and dried cells of the alga
Haematococcus pluvialis.
(2) Haematococcus algae meal may be added to the fish feed only as a component of a stabilized color additive mixture. Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with haematococcus algae meal may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Haematococcus algae meal shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Physical state, solid.
Lead, not more than 5 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 2 parts per million.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Heavy metals (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Astaxanthin, not less than 1.5 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Haematococcus algae meal may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish.
(2) The quantity of astaxanthin in finished feed, from haematococcus algae meal when used alone or in combination with other astaxanthin color additive sources listed in this part 73, shall not exceed 80 milligrams per kilogram (72 grams per ton) of finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing haematococcus algae meal shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2), and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[65 FR 41584, July 6, 2000]
§ 73.200
Synthetic iron oxide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive synthetic iron oxide consists of any one or any combination of synthetically prepared iron oxides, including the hydrated forms. It is free from admixture with other substances.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with synthetic iron oxide may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
(1) Synthetic iron oxide for human food use shall conform to the following specifications:
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (3 parts per million (ppm)).
Lead (as Pb), not more than 5 mg/kg (5 ppm).
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(2) Synthetic iron oxide for dog and cat food use shall conform to the following specifications:
Arsenic (as As), not more than 5 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) Synthetic iron oxide may be safely used for human food use subject to the following restrictions:
(i) In sausage casings intended for human consumption in an amount not exceeding 0.10 percent by weight of the finished food.
(ii) In soft and hard candy, mints, and chewing gum at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless the use of the added color is authorized by such standards.
(iii) In dietary supplement tablets and capsules, including coatings and printing inks, such that the total amount of elemental iron per day for labeled dosages does not exceed 5 milligrams.
(2) Synthetic iron oxide may be safely used for the coloring of dog and cat foods in an amount not exceeding 0.25 percent by weight of the finished food.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not
necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 59 FR 10578, Mar. 7, 1994; 80 FR 14842, Mar. 20, 2015; 83 FR 54872, Nov. 1, 2018]
§ 73.225
Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive jagua (genipin-glycine) blue is a dark blue powder or liquid prepared from the juice of the unripe fruit of
Genipa americana
by reacting the genipin in the juice with glycine using mild heat. The color additive contains a polymer as the principal coloring component and three dimers as minor coloring components.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with jagua (genipin-glycine) blue may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Arsenic, not more than 1 milligram/kilogram (mg/kg) (1 part per million (ppm)).
(2) Cadmium, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(3) Lead, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(4) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(5) Genipin, not more than 20 mg/kg (20 ppm).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue may be safely used for coloring flavored milk; dairy drinks and substitutes; dairy and dairy alternative yogurt; ice cream, frozen dairy and dairy alternative desserts, puddings, gelatins, ices, sorbets; ready-to-eat multicolored cereals; flavored potato chips, tortilla, corn, and other chips; candy and chewing gum; non-alcoholic fruit based/flavored drinks, nutritional beverages and smoothies; flavored cream cheese-based spreads; and icings, frostings, jams, syrups, and fruit toppings and fillings at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used for coloring foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[88 FR 75494, Nov. 3, 2023]
§ 73.250
Fruit juice.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive fruit juice is prepared either by expressing the juice from mature varieties of fresh, edible fruits, or by the water infusion of the dried fruit. The color additive may be concentrated or dried. The definition of fruit juice in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only and shall not be construed as a standard of identity under section 401 of the act. However, where a standard of identity for a particular fruit juice has been promulgated under section 401 of the act, it shall conform to such standard.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with fruit juice may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Fruit juice may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act,
labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 52629, Oct. 10, 1995]
§ 73.260
Vegetable juice.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive vegetable juice is prepared either by expressing the juice from mature varieties of fresh, edible vegetables, or by the water infusion of the dried vegetable. The color additive may be concentrated or dried. The definition of vegetable juice in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only, and shall not be construed as a standard of identity under section 401 of the act. However, where a standard of identity for a particular vegetable juice has been promulgated under section 401 of the act, it shall conform to such standard.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with vegetable juice may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Vegetable juice may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 52629, Oct. 10, 1995]
§ 73.275
Dried algae meal.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive dried algae meal is a dried mixture of algae cells (genus
Spongiococcum,
separated from its culture broth), molasses, cornsteep liquor, and a maximum of 0.3 percent ethoxyquin. The algae cells are produced by suitable fermentation, under controlled conditions, from a pure culture of the genus
Spongiococcum.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive dried algae meal may be safely used in chicken feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the yellow color of chicken skin and eggs.
(2) The quantity of the color additive incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed:
(i) Is supplemented sufficiently with xanthophyll and associated carotenoids so as to accomplish the intended effect described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Meets the tolerance limitation for ethoxyquin in animal feed prescribed in § 573.380 of this chapter.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additives and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear in addition to the information required by § 70.25 of this chapter.
(1) A statement of the concentrations of xanthophyll and ethoxyquin contained therein.
(2) Adequate directions to provide a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.295
Tagetes (Aztec marigold) meal and extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive tagetes (Aztec marigold) meal is the dried, ground flower petals of the Aztec
marigold (
Tagetes erecta
L.) mixed with not more than 0.3 percent ethoxyquin.
(2) The color additive tagetes (Aztec marigold) extract is a hexane extract of the flower petals of the Aztec marigold (
Tagetes erecta
L.). It is mixed with an edible vegetable oil, or with an edible vegetable oil and a hydrogenated edible vegetable oil, and not more than 0.3 percent ethoxyquin. It may also be mixed with soy flour or corn meal as a carrier.
(b)
Specifications.
(1) Tagetes (Aztec marigold) meal is free from admixture with other plant material from
Tageteserecta
L. or from plant material or flowers of any other species of plants.
(2) Tagetes (Aztec marigold) extract shall be prepared from tagetes (Aztec marigold) petals meeting the specifications set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and shall conform to the following additional specifications:
Melting point
53.5-55.0 °C.
Iodine value
132-145.
Saponification value
175-200.
Acid value
0.60-1.20.
Titer
35.5-37.0 °C.
Unsaponifiable matter
23.0 percent-27.0 percent.
Hexane residue
Not more than 25 p.p.m.
All determinations, except the hexane residue, shall be made on the initial extract of the flower petals (after drying in a vacuum oven at 60 °C. for 24 hours) prior to the addition of the oils and ethoxyquin. The hexane determination shall be made on the color additive after the addition of the vegetable oils, hydrogenated vegetable oils, and ethoxyquin.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additives tagetes (Aztec marigold) meal and extract may be safely used in chicken feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additives are used to enhance the yellow color of chicken skin and eggs.
(2) The quantity of the color additives incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed:
(i) Is supplemented sufficiently with xanthophyll and associated carotenoids so as to accomplish the intended effect described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Meets the tolerance limitation for ethoxyquin in animal feed prescribed in § 573.380 of this chapter.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additives and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the information required by § 70.25 of this chapter:
(1) A statement of the concentrations of xanthophyll and ethoxyquin contained therein.
(2) Adequate directions to provide a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.297
Myoglobin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive myoglobin is a stabilized product of controlled fermentation of a non-pathogenic and non-toxicogenic strain of the yeast,
Komagataella phaffii,
genetically engineered to express the myoglobin protein from
Bos taurus.
Myoglobin protein is the principal coloring component of the color additive and imparts a red color.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with myoglobin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Myoglobin must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Myoglobin protein purity on protein basis (weight/weight), not less than 85 percent.
(2) Lead, not more than 0.01 milligrams per kilogram (0.01 parts per million).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Myoglobin may be safely used in ground meat and ground poultry analogue products (
i.e.,
plant-based ground meat- and poultry-like food products subject to FDA regulation) where the amount of myoglobin protein does not exceed 2 percent by weight of the uncooked analogue product.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared
therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore, batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[90 FR 5594, Jan. 17, 2025]
§ 73.300
Carrot oil.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive carrot oil is the liquid or the solid portion of the mixture or the mixture itself obtained by the hexane extraction of edible carrots (
Daucus carota
L.) with subsequent removal of the hexane by vacuum distillation. The resultant mixture of solid and liquid extractives consists chiefly of oils, fats, waxes, and carrotenoids naturally occurring in carrots. The definition of carrot oil in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for carrot oil or carrot oleoresin under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with carrot oil may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Carrot oil shall contain no more than 25 parts per million of hexane.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Carrot oil may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.315
Corn endosperm oil.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive corn endosperm oil is a reddish-brown liquid composed chiefly of glycerides, fatty acids, sitosterols, and carotenoid pigments obtained by isopropyl alcohol and hexane extraction from the gluten fraction of yellow corn grain. The definition of corn endosperm oil in this paragraph is for the purpose of definition as a color additive only and shall not be construed as a food standard of identity under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with corn endosperm oil may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Corn endosperm oil conforms to the following specifications:
Total fatty acids, not less than 85 percent.
Iodine value, 118 to 134.
Saponification value, 165 to 185.
Unsaponifiable matter, not more than 14 percent.
Hexane, not more than 25 parts per million.
Isopropyl alcohol, not more than 100 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive corn endosperm oil may be safely used in chicken feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the yellow color of chicken skin and eggs.
(2) The quantity of the color additive incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed is supplemented sufficiently with xanthophyll and associated carotenoids so as to accomplish the intended effect described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, a statement of the concentration of xanthophyll contained therein.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not
necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.340
Paprika.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive paprika is the ground dried pod of mild capsicum (
Capsicum annuum
L.). The definition of paprika in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for paprika under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with paprika may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Paprika may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.345
Paprika oleoresin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive paprika oleoresin is the combination of flavor and color principles obtained from paprika (
Capsicum annuum
L.) by extraction, using any one or a combination of the following solvents:
Acetone
Ethyl alcohol
Ethylene dichloride
Hexane
Isopropyl alcohol
Methyl alcohol
Methylene chloride
Trichloroethylene
The definition of paprika oleoresin in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only, and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for paprika oleoresin under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with paprika oleoresin may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Paprika oleoresin shall contain no more residue of the solvents listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section than is permitted of the corresponding solvents in spice oleoresins under applicable food additive regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Paprika oleoresin may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.350
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive is formed by depositing titanium salts onto mica, followed by heating to produce titanium dioxide on mica. Mica used to manufacture the color additive shall conform in identity to the requirements of § 73.1496(a)(1).
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with mica-based pearlescent pigments may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring food.
(b)
Specifications.
Mica-based pearlescent pigments shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those
named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Lead (as Pb), not more than 4 parts per million (ppm).
(2) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 ppm.
(3) Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 ppm.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be safely used as a color additive in food as follows:
(i) In amounts up to 1.25 percent, by weight, in the following foods: Cereals, confections and frostings, gelatin desserts, hard and soft candies (including lozenges), nutritional supplement tablets and gelatin capsules, and chewing gum.
(ii) In amounts up to 0.07 percent, by weight, in the following:
(A) Distilled spirits containing not less than 18 percent and not more than 25 percent alcohol by volume.
(B) Cordials, liqueurs, flavored alcoholic malt beverages, wine coolers, and cocktails.
(C) Non-alcoholic cocktail mixes and mixers, such as margarita mix, Bloody Mary mix, and daiquiri mix, but excluding eggnog, tonic water, and beverages that are typically consumed without added alcohol (
e.g.,
fruit juices, fruit juice drinks, and soft drinks).
(iii) In egg decorating kits used for coloring the shells of eggs in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(2) The color additive may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the act, unless the use of the added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[71 FR 31929, June 2, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 35117, June 12, 2013; 80 FR 32307, June 8, 2015; 80 FR 58602, Sept. 30, 2015]
§ 73.352
Paracoccus pigment.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive paracoccus pigment consists of the heat-killed, dried cells of a nonpathogenic and nontoxicogenic strain of the bacterium
Paracoccus carotinifaciens
and may contain added calcium carbonate to adjust the astaxanthin level.
(2) Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with paracoccus pigment may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Paracoccus pigment shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Physical state, solid.
(2) Lead, not more than 5 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (5 parts per million (ppm)).
(3) Arsenic, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm).
(4) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(5) Heavy metals (as Pb), not more than 10 mg/kg (10 ppm).
(6) Astaxanthin, not less than 1.75 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Paracoccus pigment may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish.
(2) The quantity of astaxanthin in finished feed, from paracoccus pigment when used alone or in combination with other astaxanthin color additive sources listed in this part 73, shall not exceed 80 mg/kg (72 grams per ton) of finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing
methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing paracoccus pigment shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2), and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore, batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[74 FR 58845, Nov. 16, 2009]
§ 73.355
Phaffia yeast.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive phaffia yeast consists of the killed, dried cells of a nonpathogenic and nontoxicogenic strain of the yeast
Phaffia rhodozyma.
(2) Phaffia yeast may be added to the fish feed only as a component of a stabilized color additive mixture. Color additive mixtures for fish feed use made with phaffia yeast may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Phaffia yeast shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Physical state, solid.
Lead, not more than 5 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 2 parts per million.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Heavy metals (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Astaxanthin, not less than 0.4 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Phaffia yeast may be safely used in the feed of salmonid fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(1) The color additive is used to enhance the pink to orange-red color of the flesh of salmonid fish.
(2) The quantity of astaxanthin in finished feed, from phaffia yeast when used alone or in combination with other astaxanthin color additive sources listed in this part 73, shall not exceed 80 milligrams per kilogram (72 grams per ton) of finished feed.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The labeling of the color additive and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The presence of the color additive in finished fish feed prepared according to paragraph (c) of this section shall be declared in accordance with § 501.4 of this chapter.
(3) The presence of the color additive in salmonid fish that have been fed feeds containing phaffia yeast shall be declared in accordance with §§ 101.22(b), (c), and (k)(2) and 101.100(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[65 FR 41587, July 6, 2000]
§ 73.450
Riboflavin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive riboflavin is the riboflavin defined in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 262-263, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with riboflavin may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in
color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Riboflavin shall meet the specifications given in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Riboflavin may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice; except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 947, Jan. 8, 1982; 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.500
Saffron.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive saffron is the dried stigma of Crocus sativus L. The definition of saffron in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only, and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for saffron under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with saffron may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Saffron may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.520
Soy leghemoglobin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive soy leghemoglobin is a stabilized product of controlled fermentation of a non-pathogenic and non-toxicogenic strain of the yeast,
Pichia pastoris,
genetically engineered to express soy leghemoglobin protein. Soy leghemoglobin protein is the principal coloring component of the color additive and imparts a reddish-brown color.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with soy leghemoglobin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Soy leghemoglobin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Soy leghemoglobin protein purity on protein basis (weight/weight), not less than 65 percent, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
(2) Lead, not more than 0.4 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (0.4 parts per million (ppm)).
(3) Arsenic, not more than 0.05 mg/kg (0.05 ppm).
(4) Mercury, not more than 0.05 mg/kg (0.05 ppm).
(5) Cadmium, not more than 0.2 mg/kg (0.2 ppm).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Soy leghemoglobin may be safely used in ground beef analogue products such that the amount of soy leghemoglobin protein does not exceed 0.8 percent by weight of the uncooked ground beef analogue product.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[84 FR 37576, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 73.530
Spirulina extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive spirulina extract is prepared by the filtered aqueous extraction of the dried biomass of
Arthrospira platensis.
The color additive contains phycocyanins as the principal coloring components.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with spirulina extract may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Spirulina extract must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Lead, not more than 2 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (2 part per million (ppm));
(2) Arsenic, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm);
(3) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm); and
(4) Negative for microcystin toxin.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Spirulina extract may be safely used for coloring confections (including candy and chewing gum), frostings, ice cream and frozen desserts (including non-dairy frozen dessert), dessert coatings and toppings, beverage mixes and powders, yogurts (including non-dairy yogurt alternatives), custards, puddings (including non-dairy puddings), cottage cheese, gelatin, breadcrumbs, ready-to-eat cereals (excluding extruded cereals), alcoholic beverages with less than 20 percent alcohol-by-volume content, non-alcoholic beverages, seasoning mixes (unheated), salad dressings, condiments and sauces, dips, coating formulations applied to dietary supplement tablets and capsules, at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice, and to seasonally color the shells of hard-boiled eggs, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless the use of the added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[78 FR 49120, Aug. 13, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20098, May 13, 2014; 80 FR 50765, Aug. 21, 2015; 82 FR 30734, July 3, 2017; 87 FR 67789, Nov. 10, 2022]
§ 73.575
Titanium dioxide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive titanium dioxide is synthetically prepared TiO
2
, free from admixture with other substances.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with titanium dioxide may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods, and the following: Silicon dioxide, SiO
2
and/or aluminum oxide, Al
2
O
3
, as dispersing aids—not more than 2 percent total.
(b)
Specifications.
Titanium dioxide shall conform to the following specifications:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Antimony (as Sb), not more than 2 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Loss on ignition at 800 °C. (after drying for 3 hours at 105 °C.), not more than 0.5 percent.
Water soluble substances, not more than 0.3 percent.
Acid soluble substances, not more than 0.5 percent.
TiO
2
, not less than 99.0 percent after drying for 3 hours at 105 °C.
Lead, arsenic, and antimony shall be determined in the solution obtained by
boiling 10 grams of the titanium dioxide for 15 minutes in 50 milliliters of 0.5
N
hydrochloric acid.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive titanium dioxide may be safely used for coloring foods generally, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The quantity of titanium dioxide does not exceed 1 percent by weight of the food.
(2) It may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.585
Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive tomato lycopene extract is a red to dark brown viscous oleoresin extracted with ethyl acetate from tomato pulp followed by removal of the solvent by evaporation. The pulp is produced from fresh, edible varieties of the tomato by removing the liquid. The main coloring component is lycopene.
(2) The color additive tomato lycopene concentrate is a powder prepared from tomato lycopene extract by removing most of the tomato lipids with ethyl acetate and then evaporating off the solvent.
(3) Color additive mixtures made with tomato lycopene extract or tomato lycopene concentrate may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring food.
(b)
Specifications.
(1) Tomato lycopene extract shall conform to the following specification: Lycopene, not less than 5.5 percent of oleoresin as determined by the method entitled “Qualitative Analysis of Lycopene, Its Isomers and Other Carotenoids in Different Concentrations of Lyc-O-Mato ® (Tomato Oleoresin) and in Tomato Pulp by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC),” S.O.P. number : Lab/119/01, Revision 01, dated May 30, 2001, published by LycoRed Natural Products Industries, which is incorporated by reference, or an equivalent method. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the method from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740. You may inspect a copy at theFood and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html
(2) Tomato lycopene concentrate shall conform to the following specification: Lycopene, not less than 60 percent of oleoresin as determined by the method identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Tomato lycopene extract and tomato lycopene concentrate may be safely used for coloring foods generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that they may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[70 FR 43045, July 26, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 5590, Feb. 3, 2016; 81 FR 49895, July 29, 2016]
§ 73.600
Turmeric.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive turmeric is the ground rhizome of
Curcuma longa L. The definition of turmeric in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only, and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for turmeric under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with turmeric may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Turmeric may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.615
Turmeric oleoresin.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive turmeric oleoresin is the combination of flavor and color principles obtained from turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) by extraction using any one or a combination of the following solvents:
Acetone
Ethyl alcohol
Ethylene dichloride
Hexane
Isopropyl alcohol
Methyl alcohol
Methylene chloride
Trichloroethylene
The definition of turmeric oleoresin in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only, and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for turmeric oleoresin under section 401 of the act.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with turmeric oleoresin may contain as diluents only those substances listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
Turmeric oleoresin shall contain no more residue of the solvents listed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section than is permitted for the corresponding solvents in spice oleoresins under applicable food additive regulation in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Turmeric oleoresin may be safely used for the coloring of foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.

# Subpart B—Drugs
§ 73.1001
Diluents in color additive mixtures for drug use exempt from certification.
The following diluents may be safely used in color additive mixtures that are exempt from certification and which are to be used for coloring drugs, subject to the condition that each straight color in the mixture has been exempted from certification or, if not so exempted, is from a batch that has previously been certified and has not changed in composition since certification. Such listing of diluents is not to be construed as superseding any of the other requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to drugs, including new drugs. If a definition and specification for a particular diluent is not set forth in this subpart, the material shall be of a purity consistent with its intended use.
(a)
Ingested drugs
—(1)
General use.
Diluents listed in § 73.1(a) and the following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Restrictions
Alcohol, specially denatured
As set forth in 26 CFR, pt. 212
As set forth in 26 CFR, pt. 211.
Cetyl alcohol
As set forth in N.F. XI
Isopropyl alcohol
In color coatings for pharmaceutical forms, no residue.
Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate (Polysorbate 60)
As set forth in sec. 172.836 of this chapter
Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan tristearate (Polysorbate 65)
As set forth in sec. 172.838 of this chapter
Polysorbate 80
As set forth in sec. 172.840 of this chapter
Polyvinyl-pyrrolidone
As set forth in sec. 173.55 of this chapter
Sorbitan monooleate
Sorbitan monostearate
As set forth in sec. 172.842 of this chapter
Sorbitan trioleate
(2)
Special use; inks for branding pharmaceutical forms.
Items listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, § 73.1(b)(1)(i), and the following:
Ethyl lactate
Polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate (20)
(b)
Externally applied drugs.
Diluents listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the following:
Substances
Definitions and specifications
Benzyl alcohol
As set forth in N.F. XI.
Ethyl cellulose
As set forth in § 172.868 of this chapter.
Hydroxyethyl cellulose
Hydroxypropyl cellulose
As set forth in § 172.870 of this chapter.
§ 73.1010
Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide).
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide) is a white, odorless, tasteless, amorphous powder consisting essentially of aluminum hydroxide (Al
2
O
3
· XH
2
O).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide) may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide) shall conform to the following specifications:
Acidity or alkalinity: Agitate 1 gram of the color additive with 25 milliliters of water and filter. The filtrate shall be neutral to litmus paper.
Matter insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid, not more than 0.5 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Aluminum oxide (Al
2
O
3
), not less than 50 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide) may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color drugs generally.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1015
Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide is a blue-green pigment obtained by calcining a mixture of chromium oxide, cobalt carbonate, and aluminum oxide. It may contain small amounts (less than 1 percent each) of oxides of barium, boron, silicon, and nickel.
(b)
Specifications.
Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide shall conform to the following specifications:
Chromium, calculated as Cr
2
O
3
, 34-37 percent.
Cobalt, calculated as CoO, 29-34 percent.
Aluminum, calculated as AL
2
O
3
, 29-35 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 30 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Total oxides of aluminum, chromium, and cobalt not less than 97 percent.
Lead and arsenic shall be determined in the solution obtained by boiling 10 grams of the chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide for 15 minutes in 50 milliliters of 0.5
N
hydrochloric acid.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide may be safely used for coloring linear polyethylene surgical sutures, United States Pharmacopeia (U.S.P.), for use in general surgery, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) For coloring procedure, the color additive is blended with the polyethylene resin. The mixture is heated to a temperature of 500-550 °F. and extruded through a fixed orifice. The filaments are cooled, oriented by drawing, and set by annealing.
(2) The quantity of the color additive does not exceed 2 percent by weight of the suture material.
(3) The dyed suture shall conform in all respects to the requirements of the U.S.P. XX (1980).
(4) When the sutures are used for the purpose specified in their labeling, there is no migration of the color additive to the surrounding tissue.
(5) If the suture is a new drug, an approved new drug application, pursuant to section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, is in effect for it.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.1025
Ferric ammonium citrate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive ferric ammonium citrate consists of complex chelates prepared by the interaction of ferric hydroxide with citric acid in the presence of ammonia. The complex chelates occur in brown and green forms, are deliquescent in air, and are reducible by light.
(b)
Specifications.
Ferric ammonium citrate shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Iron (as Fe), not less than 14.5 percent and not more than 18.5 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 p/m.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 p/m.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferric ammonium citrate may be safely used in combination with pyrogallol (as listed in § 73.1375), for coloring plain and chromic catgut sutures for use in general and ophthalmic surgery subject to the following conditions:
(1) The dyed suture shall conform in all respects to the requirements of the United States Pharmacopeia XX (1980).
(2) The level of the ferric ammonium citrate-pyrogallol complex shall not exceed 3 percent of the total weight of the suture material.
(3) When the sutures are used for the purposes specified in their labeling, there is no migration of the color additive to the surrounding tissue.
(4) If the suture is a new drug, an approved new drug application, pursuant to section 505 of the act, is in effect for it.
(d)
Labeling.
The labeling of the color-additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.1030
Annatto extract.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive annatto extract shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.30(a)(1) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with annatto extract may contain only those diluents that are
suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Annatto extract may be safely used for coloring drugs generally, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter. Labels shall bear information showing that the color is derived from annatto seed. The requirements of § 70.25(a) of this chapter that all ingredients shall be listed by name shall not be construed as requiring the declaration of residues of solvents listed in § 73.30(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are evempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 36994, July 19, 1977]
§ 73.1070
Calcium carbonate.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive calcium carbonate is a fine, white, synthetically prepared powder consisting essentially of precipitated calcium carbonate (CaCO
3
).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with calcium carbonate may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Calcium carbonate shall meet the specifications for precipitated calcium carbonate in the United States Pharmacopeia XX (1980).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Calcium carbonate may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manudacturing practice to color drugs generally.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.1075
Canthaxanthin.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive canthaxanthin shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.75(a)(1) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures for ingested drug use made with canthaxanthin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Canthaxanthin may be safely used for coloring ingested drugs generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1085
Caramel.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive caramel shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.85(a) (1), (2), and (3) and (b).
(2) The diluents in color additive mixtures for drug use containing caramel shall be limited to those listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Caramel may be used for coloring ingested and topically applied drugs generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof
are exempt from the certification requirement of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1095
β-Carotene.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive β-carotene shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.95(a)(1) and (b).
(2) The diluents in color additive mixtures for drug use containing β-carotene are limited to those listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive β-carotene may be safely used in coloring drugs generally, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The labeling of the color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 33722, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.1100
Cochineal extract; carmine.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additives cochineal extract and carmine shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.100(a) (1) and (2) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with carmine and cochineal extract may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Cochineal extract and carmine may be safely used for coloring ingested and externally applied drugs in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additives and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1125
Potassium sodium copper chloropyhllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex).
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin is a green to black powder obtained from chlorophyll by replacing the methyl and phytyl ester groups with alkali and replacing the magnesium with copper. The source of the chlorophyll is dehydrated alfalfa.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Moisture, not more than 5.0 percent.
Nitrogen, not more than 5.0 percent.
pH of 1 percent solution, 9 to 11.
Total copper, not less than 4 percent and not more than 6 percent.
Free copper, not more than 0.25 percent.
Iron, not more than 0.5 percent.
Lead (as Pb)), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 5 parts per million.
Ratio, absorbance at 405 mμ to absorbance at 630 mμ, not less than 3.4 and not more than 3.9.
Total color, not less than 75 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin may be safely used for coloring dentifrices that are drugs at a level not to exceed 0.1 percent. Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of section 505 of the act with respect to the drug in which it is used.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for
coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1150
Dihydroxyacetone.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive dihydroxyacetone is 1,3-dihydroxy-2-propanone.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with dihydroxyacetone may contain only those diluents that are listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Dihydroxyacetone shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Volatile matter (at 34.6 °C. for 3 hours at a pressure of not more than 30 mm. mercury), not more than 0.5 percent.
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.4 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Iron (as Fe), not more than 25 parts per million.
1,3-dihydroxy-2-propanone, not less than 98 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Dihydroxyacetone may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice in externally applied drugs intended solely or in part to impart a color to the human body. Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of section 505 of the act with respect to the drug in which it is used.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1162
Bismuth oxychloride.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive bismuth oxychloride is a synthetically prepared white or nearly white amorphous or finely crystalline, odorless powder consisting principally of BiOCl.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with bismuth oxychloride may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive bismuth oxychloride shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Volatile matter, not more than 0.5 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Bismuth oxychloride, not less than 98 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive bismuth oxychloride may be safely used in coloring externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 52394, Sept. 30, 1977]
§ 73.1200
Synthetic iron oxide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive synthetic iron oxide consists of any
one or any combination of synthetically prepared iron oxides, including the hydrated forms. It is free from admixture with other substances.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with synthetic iron oxide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Synthetic iron oxide shall conform to the following specifications, all on an “as is” basis:
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive synthetic iron oxide may be safely used to color ingested or topically applied drugs generally subject to the restriction that if the color additive is used in drugs ingested by man the amount consumed in accordance with labeled or prescribed dosages shall not exceed 5 milligrams, calculated as elemental iron, per day.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1298
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive ferric ammonium ferrocyanide is the blue pigment obtained by oxidizing under acidic conditions with sodium dichromate the acid digested precipitate resulting from mixing solutions of ferrous sulfate and sodium ferrocyanide in the presence of ammonium sulfate. The oxidized product is filtered, washed, and dried. The pigment consists principally of ferric ammonium ferrocyanide with smaller amounts of ferric ferrocyanide and ferric sodium ferrocyanide.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free of impurities other than those named to the extent that the other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Oxalic acid or its salts, not more than 0.1 percent.
Water soluble matter, not more than 3 percent.
Water soluble cyanide, not more than 10 parts per million.
Volatile matter, not more than 4 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Nickel (as Ni), not more than 200 parts per million.
Cobalt (as Co), not more than 200 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Total iron (as Fe corrected for volatile matter), not less than 33 percent and not more than 39 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color externally applied drugs, including those for use in the area of the eye.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therfore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38562, July 29, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 28322, May 15, 1979]
§ 73.1299
Ferric ferrocyanide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive ferric ferrocyanide is a ferric hexacyanoferrate pigment characterized by the structual formula Fe
4
[Fe(CN)
6
]
3
·XH
2
O, which may contain
small amounts of ferric sodium ferrocyanide and ferric potassium ferrocyanide.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with ferric ferrocyanide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Ferric ferrocyanide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Water soluble cyanide, not more than 10 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Nickel (as Ni), not more than 200 parts per million.
Cobalt (as Co), not more than 200 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Oxalic acid, not more than 0.1 percent.
Water soluble matter, not more than 3 percent.
Volatile matter, not more than 10 percent.
Total iron (as Fe corrected for volatile matter), not less than 37 percent and not more than 45 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferric ferrocyanide may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color externally applied drugs including those intended for use in the area of the eye.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[43 FR 54235, Nov. 21, 1978]
§ 73.1326
Chromium hydroxide green.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive chromium hydroxide green is principally hydrated chromic sesquioxide (Cr
2
O
3
·XH
2
O).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with chromium hydroxide green may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Chromium hydroxide green shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Water soluble matter, not more than 2.5%.
Chromium in 2% NaOH extract, not more than 0.1% as Cr
2
O
3
(based on sample weight).
Boron (as B
2
O
3
), not more than 8 percent.
Total volatile matter at 1000 °C, not more than 20%.
Cr
2
O
3
not less than 75%.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Chromium hydroxide green may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color externally applied drugs, including those for use in the area of the eye.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom lintended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 36451, July 15, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 59852, Nov. 22, 1977]
§ 73.1327
Chromium oxide greens.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive chromium oxide greens is principally chromic sesquioxide (Cr
2
O
3
).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with chromium oxide greens may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
the color additive chormium oxide greens shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Chromium in 2% NaOH extract, not more than 0.075% as Cr
2
O
3
(based on sample weight).
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Cr
2
O
3
, not less than 95%.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Chromium oxide greens is safe for use in coloring externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 36451, July 15, 1977]
§ 73.1329
Guanine.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive guanine is the crystalline material obtained from fish scales and consists principally of the two purines, guanine and hypoxanthine. The guanine content will vary from 75 to 97 percent, and the hypoxanthine will vary from 3 to 25 percent, depending on the particular fish and tissue from which the crystals are derived.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with guanine may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive guanine shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Guanine, not less than 75 percent.
Hypoxanthine, not more than 25 percent.
Ash (ignition at 800 °C), not more than 2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Assay, not less than 96 percent total purines.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Guanine is safe for use in coloring externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 37537, July 22, 1977]
§ 73.1350
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive is formed by depositing titanium and/or iron salts onto mica, followed by heating to produce one of the following combinations: Titanium dioxide on mica; iron oxide on mica; titanium dioxide and iron oxide on mica. Mica used to manufacture the color additive shall conform in identity to the requirements of § 73.1496(a)(1).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with mica-based pearlescent pigments may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Mica-based pearlescent pigments shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other
impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Lead (as Pb), not more than 4 parts per million (ppm).
(2) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 ppm.
(3) Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 ppm.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Mica-based pearlescent pigments may be safely used to color ingested drugs in amounts up to 3 percent, by weight, of the final drug product. The maximum amount of iron oxide to be used in producing said pigments is not to exceed 55 percent, by weight, in the finished pigment.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[70 FR 42273, July 22, 2005. Redesignated at 72 FR 10357, Mar. 8, 2007]
§ 73.1375
Pyrogallol.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive pyrogallol is 1,2,3-trihydroxybenzene.
(b)
Specifications.
Pyrogallol shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Melting point, between 130° and 133 °C.
Residue on ignition, not more than 0.1 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 p/m (parts per million).
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 p/m.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Pyrogallol may be safely used in combination with ferric ammonium citrate (as listed in § 73.1025), for coloring plain and chromic catgut sutures for use in general and ophthalmic surgery, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The dyed suture shall conform in all respects to the requirements of the United States Pharmacopeia XX (1980).
(2) The level of the ferric ammonium citrate-pyrogallol complex shall not exceed 3 percent of the total weight of the suture material.
(3) When the sutures are used for the purposes specified in their labeling, there is no migration of the color additive to the surrounding tissues.
(4) If the suture is a new drug, an approved new drug application, pursuant to section 505 of the act, is in effect for it.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.1400
Pyrophyllite.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive pyrophyllite is a naturally occurring mineral substance consisting predominantly of a hydrous aluminum silicate, Al
2
O
3
·4SiO
2
·H
2
O, intimately mixed with lesser amounts of finely divided silica, SiO
2
. Small amounts, usually less than 3 percent, of other silicates, such as potassium aluminum silicate, may be present. Pyrophyllite may be identified and semiquantitatively determined by its characteristic X-ray powder diffraction pattern and by its optical properties.
(2) Color additive mixtures made with pyrophyllite are limited to those listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Pyrophyllite shall conform to the following specifications:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead and arsenic shall be determined in the solution obtained by boiling 10 grams of the pyrophyllite for 15 minutes in 50 milliliters of 0.5
N
hydrochloric acid.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Pyrophyllite may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color drugs that are to be externally applied.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The labeling of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1410
Logwood extract.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive logwood extract is a reddish brown-to-black solid material extracted from the heartwood of the leguminous tree
Haematoxylon campechianum.
The active colorant substance is principally hematein. The latent coloring material is the unoxidized or leuco form of hematein called hematoxylin. The leuco form is oxidized by air.
(b)
Specifications.
Logwood extract shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such imnurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Volatile matter (at 110 °C), not more than 15 percent.
Sulfated ash, not more than 20 percent.
Hematein, not less than 5 percent and not more than 20 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 70 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 4 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Use and restrictions.
Logwood extract may be safely used to color nylon 66 (the copolymer of hexamethylenediamine and adipic acid), nylon 6 (the polymer of
e
-caprolactam), or silk non-absorable sutures for use in general and ophthalmic surgery subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The quantity of color additive does not exceed 1.0 percent by weight of the suture.
(2) When the sutures are used for the purposes specified in their labeling, there is no migration of the color additive to the surrounding tissue.
(3) If the suture is a new drug, an approved new drug application, pursuant to section 505 of the act, is in effect for it.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 52393, Sept. 30, 1977; 43 FR 1490, Jan. 10, 1978]
§ 73.1496
Mica.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive mica is a white powder obtained from the naturally occurring mineral, muscovite mica, consisting predominantly of a potassium aluminum silicate, K
2
Al
4
(Al
2
Si
6
O
20
)(OH)
4
or, alternatively, H
2
KAl
3
(SiO
4
)
3
. Mica may be identified and semiquantitatively determined by its characteristic X-ray diffraction pattern and by its optical properties.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with mica may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Mica shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Fineness, 100 percent shall pass through a 100-mesh sieve.
Loss on ignition at 600-650 °C, not more than 2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Mica may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color dentifrices and externally applied drugs, including those for use in the area of the eye.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38561, July 29, 1977, as amended at 52 FR 29665, Aug. 11, 1987]
§ 73.1530
Spirulina extract.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive spirulina extract is prepared by the filtered aqueous extraction of the dried biomass of
Arthrospira platensis.
The color additive contains phycocyanins as the principal coloring components.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with spirulina extract may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Spirulina extract must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Lead, not more than 2 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (2 parts per million (ppm));
(2) Arsenic, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm);
(3) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm); and
(4) Negative for microcystin toxin.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Spirulina extract may be safely used for coloring coating formulations applied to drug tablets and capsules, at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[80 FR 50765, Aug. 21, 2015]
§ 73.1550
Talc.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive talc is a finely powdered, native, hydrous magnesium silicate sometimes containing a small proportion of aluminum silicate.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with talc may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Talc shall meet the specifications for talc in the United States Pharmacopeia XX (1980) and the following:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead and arsenic shall be determined in the solution obtained by boiling 10 grams of the talc for 15 minutes in 50 milliliters of 0.5
N
hydrochloric acid.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Talc may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color drugs generally.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10089, Mar. 19, 1984]
§ 73.1575
Titanium dioxide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive titanium dioxide shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.575(a)(1) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with titanium dioxide may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures
for coloring drugs, and the following: Silicon dioxide, SiO
2
, and/or aluminum oxide, Al
2
O
3
, as dispersing aids—not more than 2 percent total.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive titanium dioxide may be used for coloring ingested and externally applied drugs generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice. External application includes use in the area of the eye.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of the chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.1645
Aluminum powder.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive aluminum powder shall be composed of finely divided particles of aluminum prepared from virgin aluminum. It is free from admixture with other substances.
(2) Color additive mixtures for external drug use made with aluminum powder may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Aluminum powder shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Fineness, 100 percent shall pass through a 200-mesh screen and 95 percent shall pass through a 325-mesh screen.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Arsenic, not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead, not more than 20 parts per million.
Aluminum, not less than 99 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Aluminum powder is safe for use in externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38563, July 29, 1977]
§ 73.1646
Bronze powder.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive bronze powder is a very fine metallic powder prepared from alloys consisting principally of virgin electrolytic copper and zinc with small amounts of the virgin metals aluminum and tin. It contains small amounts of stearic or oleic acid as lubricants.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with bronze powder may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Bronze powder shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Stearic or oleic acid, not more than 5 percent.
Cadmium (as Cd), not more than 15 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million
Aluminum (as Al), not more than 0.5 percent.
Tin (as Sn), not more than 0.5 percent.
Copper (as Cu), not more than 95 percent and not less than 70 percent.
Zinc (as Zn), not more than 30 percent.
Maximum particle size 45µ (95 percent minimum).
Aluminum, zinc, tin, and copper content shall be based on the weight of the dried powder after being thoroughly washed with ether.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Bronze powder may be safely used in color externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in
amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of the color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 33723, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.1647
Copper powder.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive copper powder is a very fine free-flowing metallic powder prepared from virgin electrolytic copper. It contains small amounts of stearic or oleic acid as lubricants.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with copper powder may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Copper powder shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Stearic or oleic acid, not more than 5 percent.
Cadmium (as Cd), not more than 15 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Copper (as Cu), not less than 95 percent.
Maximum particle size 45µ (95 percent minimum).
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Copper powder may be safely used in coloring externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of the color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 33723, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.1991
Zinc oxide.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive zinc oxide is a white or yellow-white amorphous powder manufactured by the French process (described as the indirect process whereby zinc metal isolated from the zinc-containing ore is vaporized and then oxidized). It is principally composed of Zn.
(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with zinc oxide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.
(b)
Specifications.
Zinc oxide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Zinc oxide (as ZnO), not less than 99 percent.
Loss on ignition at 800 °C, not more than 1 percent.
Cadmium (as Cd), not more than 15 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive zinc oxide may be safely used for coloring externally applied drugs, including those used in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtues prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof
are exempt from the certifiation pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 37537, July 22, 1977]

# Subpart C—Cosmetics
§ 73.2030
Annatto.
(a)
Identity and specification.
The color additive annatto shall conform in identify and specification to the requirements for annatto extract in § 73.30(a) (1) and (b).
(b)
Use and restriction.
The color additive annatto may be safely used in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 36994, July 19, 1977]
§ 73.2085
Caramel.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive caramel shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.85(a)(1), (2), and (3) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Caramel is safe for use in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirement of section 721(c) of the act.
[46 FR 38501, July 28, 1981]
§ 73.2087
Carmine.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive carmine shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.100 (a)(2) and (b)(2).
(b)
Use and restrictions.
Carmine may be safely used in cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practices.
(c)
Labeling.
(1) The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(2) Cosmetics containing carmine that are not subject to the requirements of § 701.3 of this chapter shall specifically declare the presence of carmine prominently and conspicuously at least once in the labeling. For example: “Contains carmine as a color additive.”
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 32228, June 24, 1977, as amended at 74 FR 216, Jan. 5, 2009]
§ 73.2095
β-Carotene.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive β-carotene shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.95(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive β-carotene may be safely used in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practices.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches therof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 33722, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.2110
Bismuth citrate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive bismuth citrate is the synthetically prepared crystalline salt of bismuth and citric acid, consisting principally of BiC
6
H
5
O
7
.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive bismuth citrate shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that those impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Bismuth citrate, not less than 97 percent.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Volatile matter, not more than 1 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive bismuth citrate may be safely used in cosmetics intended for coloring hair on the scalp, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The amount of bismuth citrate in the cosmetic shall not be in excess of 2.0 percent (w/v).
(2) The cosmetic may not be used for coloring eyelashes, eyebrows, or hair on parts of the body other than the scalp.
(d)
Labeling.
(1) The label of the color additive bismuth citrate shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(2) The label of a cosmetic containing the color additive bismuth citrate shall bear, in addition to other information required by law, the following statement, conspicuously displayed thereon:
Keep this product out of children's reach. Do not use on cut or abraded scalp. Do not use to color eyelashes, eyebrows, or hair on parts of the body other than the scalp. Wash hands thoroughly after each use.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive for the prescribed use is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and, therefore, batches thereof are exempt from certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[43 FR 44831, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 75 FR 14493, Mar. 26, 2010]
§ 73.2120
Disodium EDTA-copper.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive disodium EDTA-copper is disodium [[
N,N′-
1,2- ethanediylbis[
N
- (carboxymethyl) glycinato]] (4-)-
N,N′,O,O′,O
N
,
O
N
′] cuprate (2-).
(b)
Specifications.
Disodium EDTA-copper shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Total copper, not less than 13.5 percent.
Total (ethylene-dinitrilo) tetracetic acid, not less than 62.5 percent.
Free copper, not more than 100 parts per million.
Free disodium salt of (ethylene-dinitrilo) tetraacetic acid, not more than 1.0 percent.
Moisture, not more than 15 percent.
Water insoluble matter, not more than 0.2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Disodium EDTA-copper may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practices in the coloring of shampoos which are cosmetics.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The labeling of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2125
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex).
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1125(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin may be safely used for coloring dentifrices that are cosmetics subject to the following conditions:
(1) It shall not be used at a level in excess of 0.1 percent.
(2) It may be used only in combination with the following substances:
Water.
Glycerin.
Sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
Tetrasodium pyrophosphate.
Sorbitol.
Magnesium phosphate, tribasic.
Calcium carbonate.
Calcium phosphate, dibasic.
Sodium
N
-lauroyl sarcosinate.
Artificial sweeteners that are generally recognized as safe or that are authorized under subchapter B of this chapter.
Flavors that are generally recognized as safe or that are authorized under subchapter B of this chapter.
Preservatives that are generally recognized as safe or that are authorized under subchapter B of this chapter.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2150
Dihydroxyacetone.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive dihydroxyacetone shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1150 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Dihydroxyacetone may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice in externally applied cosmetics intended solely or in part to impart a color to the human body.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The labeling of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2162
Bismuth oxychloride.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive bismuth oxychloride shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1162(a)(1) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures of bismuth oxychloride may contain the following diluents:
(i) For coloring cosmetics generally, only those diluents listed under § 73.1001(a)(1);
(ii) For coloring externally applied cosmetics, only those diluents listed in § 73.1001(b) and, in addition, nitrocellulose.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive bismuth oxychloride may be safely used in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 52394, Sept. 30, 1977]
§ 73.2180
Guaiazulene.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive, guaiazulene, is principally 1,4-dimethyl-7-isopropyl-azulene.
(2) Color additive mixtures of guaiazulene for cosmetic use may contain the following diluent:
Polyethylene glycol-40 castor oil (PEG-40 castor oil).
Saponification No., 60 to 70.
Hydroxyl No., 63 to 78.
Acid No., 2.
Specific gravity, 1.05 to 1.07.
(b)
Specifications.
Guaiazulene shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that
such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice.
Melting point, 30.5 °C to 31.5 °C.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Total color, not less than 99 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Guaiazulene may be safely used in externally applied cosmetics in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive for the prescribed use is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2190
Henna.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive henna is the dried leaf and petiole of
Lawsonia alba
Lam. (
Lawsonia inermis
L.). It may be identified by its characteristic odor and by characteristic plant histology.
(b)
Specifications.
Henna shall conform to the following specifications:
It shall not contain more than 10 percent of plant material from
Lawsonia alba
Lam. (
Lawsonia inermis
L.) other than the leaf and petiole, and shall be free from admixture with material from any other species of plant.
Moisture, not more than 10 percent.
Total ash, not more than 15 percent.
Acid-insoluble ash, not more than 5 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive henna may be safely used for coloring hair only. It may not be used for coloring the eyelashes or eyebrows, or generally in the area of the eye.
(d)
Labeling.
The label for henna shall bear the information required by § 70.25 of this chapter and the following statements or their equivalent:
“Do not use in the area of the eye.”
“Do not use on cut or abraded scalp.”
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive for the prescribed use is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2250
Iron oxides.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives iron oxides consist of any one or any combination of synthetically prepared iron oxides, including the hydrated forms. It is free from admixture with other substances.
(b)
Specifications.
Iron oxides shall conform to the following specifications, all on an “as is” basis:
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 3 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Iron oxides are safe for use in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2298
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive ferric ammonium ferrocyanide shall conform in identify and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1298 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide is safe for use in coloring externally applied cosmetics, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38562, July 29, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 6939, Feb. 17, 1978]
§ 73.2299
Ferric ferrocyanide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive ferric ferrocyanide shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1299(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Ferric ferrocyanide is safe for use in coloring externally applied cosmetics, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification under section 721(c) of the act.
[43 FR 54236, Nov. 21, 1978]
§ 73.2326
Chromium hydroxide green.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive chromium hydroxide green shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1326 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Chromium hydroxide green is safe for use in coloring externally applied cosmetics, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 36452, July 15, 1977]
§ 73.2327
Chromium oxide greens.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive chromium oxide greens shall conform in identify and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1327 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive chromium oxide greens may be safely used in externally applied cosmetics, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 36452, July 15, 1977]
§ 73.2329
Guanine.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
(1) The color additive guanine shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1329 (a)(1) and (b).
(2) Color additive mixtures of guanine may contain the following diluents:
(i) For coloring cosmetics generally, only those diluents listed under § 73.1001(a)(1);
(ii) For coloring externally applied cosmetics, only those diluents listed in § 73.1001(b) and, in addition, nitrocellulose.
(b)
Use and restrictions.
The color additive guanine may be safely used in
cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 37537, July 22, 1977]
§ 73.2400
Pyrophyllite.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive pyrophyllite shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1400 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Pyrophyllite may be safely used for coloring externally applied cosmetics, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The labeling of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to all applicable requirements of law, including the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2496
Mica.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive mica shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1496(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Mica is safe for use in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38561, July 29, 1977]
§ 73.2500
Silver.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive, silver, is a crystalline powder of high purity silver prepared by the reaction of silver nitrate with ferrous sulfate in the presence of nitric, phosphoric and sulfuric acids. Polyvinyl alcohol is used to prevent the agglomeration of crystals and the formation of amorphous silver.
(2) Color additive mixtures of silver may contain only those diluents listed in § 73.1001(b) and, in addition, nitrocellulose.
(b)
Specifications.
Silver shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 5 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Silver (as Ag), not less than 99.9 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive silver may be safely used for coloring fingernail polish at a level not to exceed 1 percent of the final product.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any other information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[44 FR 65974, Nov. 16, 1979]
§ 73.2550
Silver nitrate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive silver nitrate is a purified inorganic compound obtained as the recrystallized precipitate from the concentrated reaction mixture of silver and excess nitric acid at elevated temperatures, followed by drying the decanted, filtered, and washed crystals. The color additive has the chemical formula AgNO
3.
(b)
Specifications.
Silver nitrate shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
(1) Arsenic, not more than 3 milligrams/kilogram (mg/kg) (3 parts per million (ppm)).
(2) Cadmium, not more than 5 mg/kg (5 ppm).
(3) Lead, not more than 10 mg/kg (10 ppm).
(4) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).
(5) Volatile matter, calculated as water, not more than 0.1 percent.
(6) Total color, not less than 99.9 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive silver nitrate may be safely used in externally applied professional-use only cosmetics intended to impart color to the eyebrows and eyelashes subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The amount of silver nitrate in the cosmetic product shall not be more than 4 percent by weight.
(2) The viscosity of the cosmetic formulation shall be not less than 120 Pascal-seconds (Pa⋅s) and not more than 180 Pa⋅s at normal temperature and pressure.
(3) The cosmetic containing silver nitrate is not intended for use on persons under the age of 16.
(4) Application of the cosmetic containing silver nitrate is not intended to exceed 1 minute and is intended to be followed by immediate removal.
(5) The cosmetic containing silver nitrate is applied by a professional.
(6) The cosmetic containing silver nitrate is not distributed or directly sold to consumers.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The label of the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter and include adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The label of any cosmetic containing the color additive silver nitrate, in addition to other information required by law, shall contain the following statements: Contains silver nitrate. Silver nitrate may permanently stain skin with which it comes into contact. Silver nitrate may irritate the eyes. For application by professionals only for dyeing eyebrows and eyelashes, in accordance with the directions for use. Not for use on persons under the age of 16. Apply to eyebrows and eyelashes for no more than 1 minute, followed by immediate removal. Rinse eyes immediately if product comes into contact with them. Consult a physician if any irritation persists. Not for distribution or direct sale to consumers.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification require]ments of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
[86 FR 55498, Oct. 6, 2021]
§ 73.2575
Titanium dioxide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive titanium dioxide shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements on § 73.575 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive titanium dioxide may be safely used in cosmetics, including cosmetics intended for use in the ara of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling requirements.
The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any other information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2645
Aluminum powder.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive aluminum powder shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1645 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Aluminum powder may be safely used in coloring externally applied cosmetics, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 38563, July 29, 1977]
§ 73.2646
Bronze powder.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive bronze powder shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1646 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Bronze powder may be safely used in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of the color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 33724, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.2647
Copper powder.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive copper powder shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1647 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Copper powder may be safely used in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of the color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 33724, July 1, 1977]
§ 73.2725
Ultramarines.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives, ultramarines (blue, green, pink, red, and violet) are pigments obtained by calcining at temperatures above 700 °C. a mixture of kaolin, sulfur, sodium carbonate, silicious matter, sodium sulfate, and carbonaceous matter, but not necessarily all these substances, to produce a single color. The ultramarines are complex sodium aluminum sulfosilicates having a typical formula Na(AlSiO)S with proportions of each element varying with each color.
(b)
Specifications.
The ultramarines shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The ultramarine pigments may be safely used for coloring externally applied cosmetics, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
The color additives and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for
coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any other information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2775
Manganese violet.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive manganese violet is a violet pigment obtained by reacting phosphoric acid, ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate, and manganese dioxide at temperatures above 450 °F. The pigment is a manganese ammonium pyrophosphate complex having the approximate formula: Mn(III)NH
4
P
2
O
7
.
(b)
Specifications.
Manganese violet shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Ash (at 600 °C), not less than 81 percent.
Volatile matter at 135 °C for 3 hours, not more than 1 percent.
Water soluble substances, not more than 6 percent.
pH of filtrate of 10 grams color additive (shaken occasionally for 2 hours with 100 milliliters of freshly boiled distilled water), not more than 4.7 and not less than 2.5.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Total color, based on Mn content in “as is” sample, not less than 93 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
Manganese violet is safe for use in coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics applied to the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(d)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
§ 73.2991
Zinc oxide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive zinc oxide shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1991 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
Zinc oxide may be safely used in cosmetics, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.
(c)
Labeling.
The color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification pursuant to section 721(c) of the act.
[42 FR 37538, July 22, 1977]
§ 73.2995
Luminescent zinc sulfide.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive luminescent zinc sulfide is zinc sulfide containing a copper activator. Following excitation by daylight or a suitable artificial light, luminescent zinc sulfide produces a yellow-green phosphorescence with a maximum at 530 nanometers.
(b)
Specifications.
Luminescent zinc sulfide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:
Zinc sulfide, not less than 99.8 percent.
Copper, 100
±
5 parts per million.
Lead, not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury, not more than 1 part per million.
Cadmium, not more than 15 parts per million.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive luminescent zinc sulfide may be
safely used for coloring externally applied facial makeup preparations and nail polish included under § 720.4(c)(7)(ix) and (c)(8)(v) of this chapter, respectively, to the following restrictions:
(1) The amount of luminescent zinc sulfide in facial makeup preparations shall not exceed 10 percent by weight of the final product.
(2) Facial makeup preparations containing luminescent zinc sulfide are intended for use only on limited, infrequent occasions, e.g., Halloween, and not for regular or daily use.
(d)
Labeling requirements.
(1) The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by § 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The label of a facial makeup preparation containing the color additive shall bear, in addition to other information required by the law, the following statement conspicuously displayed:
Do not use in the area of the eye.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[65 FR 48377, Aug. 8, 2000; 65 FR 75158, Dec. 1, 2000]

# Subpart D—Medical Devices
§ 73.3100
1,4-Bis[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2-methyl-2-propenoic)ester copolymers.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives are the copolymers formed as the reaction product of 1,4-bis[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2-methyl-2-propenoic)ester (C.I. Reactive Blue 247) (CAS Reg. No. 109561-07-1) with one or more vinyl and/or acrylic monomers to form the contact lens material.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with these uses shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to the contact lens made from the color additives.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additives shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore the color additives are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[61 FR 51586, Oct. 3, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 19415, Apr. 1, 2013]]
§ 73.3105
1,4-Bis[(2-methylphenyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 1,4-bis[(2-methylphenyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione (CAS Reg. No. 6737-68-4).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act). A person intending to introduce a device containing 1,4-bis[(2-methylphenyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione listed under this section into commerce shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration either a premarket notification in accordance with subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, if the device is not subject to premarket approval, or submit and receive approval of an original or supplemental premarket approval application if the device is subject to premarket approval.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[49 FR 30066, July 26, 1984]
§ 73.3106
1,4-Bis[4-(2-methacryloxyethyl)phenylamino]anthraquinone copolymers.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives are the copolymers formed as the reaction product of 1,4-bis[4-(2-methacryloxyethyl)phenylamino]anthraquinone (C.I. Reactive Blue 246) (CAS Reg. No. 121888-69-5) with one or more vinyl and/or acrylic monomers to form the contact lens material.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with these uses shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to contact lenses made from the color additives.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additives shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health and, therefore, the color additives are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[58 FR 17507, Apr. 5, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 10497, Feb. 27, 1995; 78 FR 19415, Apr. 1, 2013]
§ 73.3107
Carbazole violet.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is carbazole violet (Pigment Violet 23) (CAS Reg. No. 6358-30-1, Colour Index No. 51319).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[53 FR 41324, Oct. 21, 1988]
§ 73.3110
Chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble.
(a)
Identity.
The color additve is chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble. The chlorophyllin is obtained by extraction from a mixture of fescue and rye grasses. The chlorophyll is acid-treated to remove chelated magnesium which is replaced with hydrogen, which is turn is replaced with copper. This mixture is diluted to a 5 percent concentration with a mixture of palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble (5 percent in palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil), shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:
Moisture, not more than 0.5 percent.
Nitrogen, not less than 0.2 percent and not more than 0.3 percent.
Total copper, not less than 0.2 percent and not more than 0.4 percent.
Free copper, not more than 200 parts per million.
Lead, not more than 20 parts per million.
Arsenic, not more than 5 parts per million.
Sulfated ash, not more than 2.5 percent.
Total color, not less than 4.5 percent and not more than 5.5 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The color additive chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble (5 percent in palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil), may be safely used to color polymethylmethacrylate bone cement. Chlorophyllin-copper complex may be used at levels that do not exceed 0.003 percent by weight of the bone cement.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the polymethylmethacrylate bone cement in which chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble, is used.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 56370, Dec. 21, 1983]
§ 73.3110a
Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide (Pigment Blue 36) (CAS Reg. No. 68187-11-1, Colour Index No. 77343) shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1015 (a) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[53 FR 41325, Oct. 21, 1988]
§ 73.3111
Chromium oxide greens.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive chromium oxide greens (chromic oxide) (CAS Reg. No. 1308-38-9), Color Index No. 77288, shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1327 (a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lenses in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 24816, July 9, 1986]
§ 73.3112
C.I. Vat Orange 1.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is C.I. Vat Orange 1, Colour Index No. 59105.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used. A person intending to introduce a device containing C.I. Vat Orange 1 into commerce shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration either a premarket notification
in accordance with subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, if the device is not subject to premarket approval, or submit and receive approval of an original or supplemental premarket approval application if the device is subject to premarket approval.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[50 FR 20407, May 16, 1985]
§ 73.3115
2-[[2,5-Diethoxy-4-[(4-methylphenyl)thiol]phenyl]azo]-1,3,5-benzenetriol.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive2-[[2,5-diethoxy-4-[(4-methylphenyl)thio]phenyl]azo]-1,3,5-benzenetriol is formed in situ in soft (hydrophilic) contact lenses.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive 2-[[2,5-diethoxy-4-[(4-methylphenyl)thio]phenyl]azo]-1,3,5-benzenetriol may be safely used to mark soft (hydrophilic) contact lenses with the letter R or the letter L for identification purposes subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The quantity of the color additive does not exceed 1.1 × 10
−7
grams in a soft (hydrophilic) contact lens.
(2) When used as specified in the labeling, there is no measurable migration of the color additive from the contact lens to the surrounding ocular tissue.
(3) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of section 510(k) and 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 22706, May 20, 1983]
§ 73.3117
16,23-Dihydrodinaphtho[2,3-a:2′,3′-i] naphth [2′,3′:6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole-5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 16,23-dihydrodinaphtho [2,3-
a:
2′,3′-
i
] napth [2′,3′:6,7] indolo [2, 3-
c
] carbazole-5,10, 15,17,22,24-hexone (CAS Reg. No. 2475-33-4), Colour Index No. 70800.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 31375, July 8, 1983]
§ 73.3118
N,N′-(9,10-Dihydro-9,10-dioxo-1,5-anthracenediyl) bisbenzamide.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is
N
,
N
′-(9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-1,5-anthracenediyl) bisbenzamide (CAS Reg. No. 82-18-8), Colour Index No. 61725.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the
contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 31375, July 8, 1983]
§ 73.3119
7,16-Dichloro-6,15-dihydro-5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 7,16-dichloro-6,15-dihydro-5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone (CAS Reg. No. 130-20-1), Colour Index No. 69825.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 31376, July 8, 1983]
§ 73.3120
16,17-Dimethoxydinaphtho [1,2,3-cd:3′,2′,1′-lm] perylene-5,10-dione.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 16,17-dimethoydinaphtho[1,2,3,-
cd:
3′,2′,1′-
lm
]perylene-5,10-dione (CAS Reg. No. 128-58-5), Colour Index No. 59825.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[48 FR 31376, July 8, 1983]
§ 73.3121
Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate)-dye copolymers.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives are formed by reacting one or more of the reactive dyes listed in this paragraph with poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate), so that the sulfate group (or groups) or chlorine substituent of the dye is replaced by an ether linkage to poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate). The dyes that may be used alone or in combination are
(1) Reactive Black 5 [2,7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-3,6-bis((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 17095-24-8);
(2) Reactive Blue 21 [copper, (29
H
,31
H
-phthalocyaninato(2-)-
N
29
,
N
30
,
N
31
,
N
32
)-, sulfo((4-((2-sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino) sulfonyl derivs] (CAS Reg. No. 73049-92-0);
(3) Reactive Orange 78 [2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 7-(acetylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl) sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-] CAS Reg. No. 68189-39-9);
(4) Reactive Yellow 15 [benzensulfonic acid, 4-(4,5-dihydro-4-((2-methoxy-5-methyl-4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl) sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-3-methyl-5-oxo-1
H
-pyrazol-1-yl)-] (CAS Reg. No. 60958-41-0);
(5) Reactive Blue No. 19 [2-anthracene-sulfonic acid, 1-amino-9,10-
dihydro-9,10-dioxo-4-((3-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino)-, disodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 2580-78-1);
(6) Reactive Blue No. 4 [2-anthracenesulfonic acid, 1-amino-4-(3-((4,6-dichloro-s-triazin-2-yl)amino)-4-sulfoanilino)-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo, disodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 4499-01-8);
(7) C.I. Reactive Red 11 [5-((4,6-dichloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)amino)-4-hydroxy-3-((1-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)azo)-2, 7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, trisodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 12226-08-3);
(8) C.I. Reactive Yellow 86 [1,3-benzenedisulfonic acid, 4-((5-aminocarbonyl-1-ethyl-1,6-dihydro-2-hydroxy-4-methyl-6-oxo-3-pyridinyl)azo)-6-(4,6-dichloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)amino)-, disodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 61951-86-8);
(9) C.I. Reactive Blue 163 [triphenodioxazinedisulfonic acid, 6,13-dichloro-3, 10-bis((4-((4.6-dichloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)amino) sulfophenyl)amino)-, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 72847-56-4); and
(10) C.I. Reactive Red 180 [5-(benzoylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((1-sulfo-6-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)-2-naphthalenyl)azo)-2,7- naphthalenedisulfonic acid, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 98114-32-0).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used to color contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) As part of the manufacturing process, the lenses containing the color additives are thoroughly washed to remove unbound reactive dyes.
(3) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act). A person intending to introduce a device containing a poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate)-dye copolymer listed under this section into commerce shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration either a premarket notification in accordance with subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, if the device is not subject to premarket approval, or submit and receive approval of an original or supplemental premarket approval application if the device is subject to premarket approval.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additives shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore these color additives are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[49 FR 373, Jan. 4, 1984; 49 FR 5094, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 9425, Mar. 8, 1985; 50 FR 33338, Aug. 19, 1985; 50 FR 37845, Sept. 18, 1985; 50 FR 45993, Nov. 6, 1985; 58 FR 9541, Feb. 22, 1993]
§ 73.3122
4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]-2,4-dihydro-5-methyl-2-phenyl-3H-pyrazol-3-one.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]-2,4-dihydro-5-methyl-2-phenyl-3
H-
pyrazol-3-one (CAS Reg. No. 6407-78-9).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 11432, Apr. 3, 1986]
§ 73.3123
6-Ethoxy-2-(6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b]thien-2(3H)-ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen-3 (2H)-one.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is 6-ethoxy-2-(6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo [
b
]thien-2(3
H
)-ylidene)benzo[
b
]thiophen-3(2
H
)-
one (CAS Reg. No. 3263-31-8), Colour Index No. 73335.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the color additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 11436, Apr. 3, 1986]
§ 73.3124
Phthalocyanine green.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is phthalocyanine green (CAS Reg. No. 1328-53-6), Colour Index No. 74260.
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 11433, Apr. 3, 1986]
§ 73.3125
Iron oxides.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive iron oxides (CAS Reg. No. 1332-37-2), Color Index No. 77491, shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.2250 (a) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lens in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 24816, July 9, 1986, as amended at 69 FR 24511, May 4, 2004]
§ 73.3126
Titanium dioxide.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive titanium dioxide (CAS Reg. No. 13463-67-7), Color Index No. 77891, shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.575(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses and intraocular lens orientation marks in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lenses in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[51 FR 24816, July 9, 1986, as amended at 81 FR 75692, Nov. 1, 2016]
§ 73.3127
Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products.
(a)
Identity.
The color additives are formed by reacting the dyes, either alone or in combination, with a vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate copolymer, so that the sulfate groups of the dyes are replaced by ether linkages to the vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate copolymer. The dyes are:
(1) C.I. Reactive Red 180 [5-(benzoylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((1-sulfo-6-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)-2-naphthalenyl)azo)-2,7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 98114-32-0).
(2) C.I. Reactive Black 5 [2,7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-3,6-bis((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 17095-24-8).
(3) C.I. Reactive Orange 78 [2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 7-(acetylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-] (CAS Reg. No. 68189-39-9).
(4) C.I. Reactive Yellow 15 [benzenesulfonic acid, 4-(4,5-dihydro-4-((2-methoxy-5-methyl-4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-3-methyl-5-oxo-1
H
-pyrazol-1-yl)-] (CAS Reg. No. 60958-41-0).
(5) C.I. Reactive Blue No. 19 [2-anthracenesulfonic acid, 1-amino-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-4-((3-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino)-, disodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 2580-78-1).
(6) C.I. Reactive Blue 21 [copper, (29
H
,31
H
-phthalocyaninato(2-)-
N
29
,
N
30
,
N
31
,
N
32
)-, sulfo((4-((2-(sulfooxy) ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino)sulfonyl derivatives] (CAS Reg. No. 73049-92-0).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used to color contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) As part of the manufacturing process, the lenses containing the color additives are thoroughly washed to remove unbound reactive dye.
(3) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act). A person intending to introduce a device containing a vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction product listed under this section into commerce shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration either a premarket notification in accordance with subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, if the device is not subject to premarket approval, or submit and receive approval of an original or supplemental premarket approval application if the device is subject to premarket approval.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore, this color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[58 FR 3227, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 17510, Apr. 5, 1993]
§ 73.3128
Mica-based pearlescent pigments.
(a)
Identity and specifications.
The color additive is formed by depositing titanium or iron salts from a basic solution onto mica, followed by calcination to produce titanium dioxide or iron oxides on mica. Mica used to manufacture the color additive shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of § 73.1496(a)(1) and (b).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) Mica-based pearlescent pigments listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the
minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) with respect to the contact lenses in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements in § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.
[67 FR 65312, Oct. 24, 2002]
§ 73.3129
Disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2-bromo-1-oxoallyl)amino]-2-sulfonatophenyl]amino]-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxoanthracene-2-sulfonate.
(a)
Identity.
The color additive is disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2-bromo-1-oxoallyl)amino]-2-sulfonatophenyl]amino]-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxoanthracene-2-sulfonate (Reactive Blue 69) (CAS Reg. No. 70209-99-3, Colour Index No. 612037).
(b)
Uses and restrictions.
(1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as a color additive in contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.
(2) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the contact lenses in which the additive is used.
(c)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements in § 70.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Exemption from certification.
Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
[76 FR 25235, May 4, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 14664, Mar. 7, 2013]
Pt. 74

# PART 74—LISTING OF COLOR ADDITIVES SUBJECT TO CERTIFICATION

# Subpart A—Foods
Sec.
74.101
FD
C Blue No. 1.
74.102
FD
C Blue No. 2.
74.203
FD
C Green No. 3.
74.250
Orange B.
74.302
Citrus Red No. 2.
74.303
FD
C Red No. 3.
74.340
FD
C Red No. 40.
74.705
FD
C Yellow No. 5.
74.706
FD
C Yellow No. 6.

# Subpart B—Drugs
74.1101
FD
C Blue No. 1.
74.1102
FD
C Blue No. 2.
74.1104
D
C Blue No. 4.
74.1109
D
C Blue No. 9.
74.1203
FD
C Green No. 3.
74.1205
D
C Green No. 5.
74.1206
D
C Green No. 6.
74.1208
D
C Green No. 8.
74.1254
D
C Orange No. 4.
74.1255
D
C Orange No. 5.
74.1260
D
C Orange No. 10.
74.1261
D
C Orange No. 11.
74.1303
FD
C Red No. 3.
74.1304
FD
C Red No. 4.
74.1306
D
C Red No. 6.
74.1307
D
C Red No. 7.
74.1317
D
C Red No. 17.
74.1321
D
C Red No. 21.
74.1322
D
C Red No. 22.
74.1327
D
C Red No. 27.
74.1328
D
C Red No. 28.
74.1330
D
C Red No. 30.
74.1331
D
C Red No. 31.
74.1333
D
C Red No. 33.
74.1334
D
C Red No. 34.
74.1336
D
C Red No. 36.
74.1339
D
C Red No. 39.
74.1340
FD
C Red No. 40.
74.1602
D
C Violet No. 2.
74.1705
FD
C Yellow No. 5.
74.1706
FD
C Yellow No. 6.
74.1707
D
C Yellow No. 7.
74.1707a
Ext. D
C Yellow No. 7.
74.1708
D
C Yellow No. 8.
74.1710
D
C Yellow No. 10.
74.1711
D
C Yellow No. 11.

# Subpart C—Cosmetics
74.2052
D
C Black No. 2.
74.2053
D
C Black No. 3.
74.2101
FD
C Blue No. 1.
74.2104
D
C Blue No. 4.
74.2151
D
C Brown No. 1.
74.2203
FD
C Green No. 3.
74.2205
D
C Green No. 5.
74.2206
D
C Green No. 6.
74.2208
D
C Green No. 8.
74.2254
D
C Orange No. 4.
74.2255
D
C Orange No. 5.
74.2260
D
C Orange No. 10.
74.2261
D
C Orange No. 11.
74.2304
FD
C Red No. 4.
74.2306
D
C Red No. 6.
74.2307
D
C Red No. 7.
74.2317
D
C Red No. 17.
74.2321
D
C Red No. 21.
74.2322
D
C Red No. 22.
74.2327
D
C Red No. 27.
74.2328
D
C Red No. 28.
74.2330
D
C Red No. 30.
74.2331
D
C Red No. 31.
74.2333
D
C Red No. 33.
74.2334
D
C Red No. 34.
74.2336
D
C Red No. 36.
74.2340
FD
C Red No. 40.
74.2602
D
C Violet No. 2.
74.2602a
Ext. D
C Violet No. 2.
74.2705
FD
C Yellow No. 5.
74.2706
FD
C Yellow No. 6.
74.2707
D
C Yellow No. 7.
74.2707a
Ext. D
C Yellow No. 7.
74.2708
D
C Yellow No. 8.
74.2710
D
C Yellow No. 10.
74.2711
D
C Yellow No. 11.

# Subpart D—Medical Devices
74.3045
[Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper.
74.3054
D
C Black No. 4.
74.3102
FD
C Blue No. 2.
74.3106
D
C Blue No. 6.
74.3206
D
C Green No. 6.
74.3230
D
C Red No. 17.
74.3602
D
C Violet No. 2.
74.3708
D
C Yellow No. 8.
74.3710
D
C Yellow No. 10.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 341, 342, 343, 348, 351, 352, 355, 361, 362, 371, 379e.

# Source:
42 FR 15654, Mar. 22, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Foods
§ 74.101
FD
C Blue No. 1.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive FD
C Blue No. 1 is principally the disodium salt of ethyl [4-[
p
-[ethyl (
m
-sulfobenzyl) amino]-α-(
o
-sulfophenyl) benzylidene] - 2,5 -cyclohexadien - 1 - ylidene] (
m
-sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt with smaller amounts of the isomeric disodium salts of ethyl [4-[
p
-[ethyl(
p
-sulfobenzyl) amino]-α-(
o
-sulfophenyl) benzylidene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene] (
p
-sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt and ethyl [4-[
p
-[ethyl (
o
-sulfobenzyl) amino] - α - (
o
-sulfophenyl) benzylidene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene] (
o
-sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use (including dietary supplements) made with FD
C Blue No. 1 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
FD
C Blue No. 1 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:
Sum of volatile matter (at 135 °C) and chlorides and sulfates (calculated as sodium salts), not more than 15.0 percent.
Water-insoluble matter, not more than 0.2 percent.
Leuco base, not more than 5 percent.
Sum of
o
-,
m
-, and
p
-sulfobenzaldehydes, not more than 1.5 percent.
N
-Ethyl,
N
-(
m
-sulfobenzyl)sulfanilic acid, not more than 0.3 percent.
Subsidiary colors, not more than 6.0 percent.
Chromium (as Cr), not more than 50 parts per million.
Manganese (as Mn), not more than 100 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Total color, not less than 85.0 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
FD
C Blue No. 1 may be safely used for coloring foods (including dietary supplements) generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.
(d)
Labeling.
The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.
(e)
Certification.
All batches of FD
C Blue No. 1 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.
[42 FR 15654, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 17511, Apr. 5, 1993]
§ 74.102
FD
C Blue No. 2.
(a)
Identity.
(1) The color additive FD
C Blue No. 2 is principally the disodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-5-sulfo-2
H
-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1
H
-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 860-22-0) with smaller amounts of the disodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-7-sulfo-2
H
-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1
H
-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 54947-75-0) and the sodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-2
H
-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1
H
-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 605-18-5). Additionally, FD
C Blue No. 2 is obtained by heating indigo (or indigo paste) in the presence of sulfuric acid. The color additive is isolated and subjected to purification procedures. The indigo (or indigo paste) used above is manufactured by the fusion of
N
-phenylglycine (prepared from aniline and formaldehyde) in a molten mixture of sodamide and sodium and potassium hydroxides under ammonia pressure. The indigo is isolated and subjected to purification procedures prior to sulfonation.
(2) Color additive mixtures for food use (including dietary supplements) made with FD
C Blue No. 2 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
(b)
Specifications.
The color additive FD
C Blue No. 2 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:
Sum of volatile matter at 135 °C (275 °F) and chlorides and sulfates (calculated as sodium salts), not more than 15 percent.
Water insoluble matter, not more than 0.4 percent.
Isatin-5-sulfonic acid, not more than 0.4 percent.
5-Sulfoanthranilic acid, not more than 0.2 percent.
Disodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-7-sulfo-2
H
-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1
H
-indole-5-sulfonic acid, not more than 18 percent.
Sodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-2
H
-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1
H
-indole-5-sulfonic acid, not more than 2 percent.
Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 parts per million.
Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 part per million.
Total color, not less than 85 percent.
(c)
Uses and restrictions.
The color additive FD
