(3) The licensing of, or other method of certifying or approving, manufactured home installers to perform the initial installations of new manufactured homes in the state;
(4) A method for inspecting the initial installations of new manufactured homes in the state that is implemented and used to hold installers responsible for the work they perform; and
(5) Provision of adequate funding and personnel to administer the state installation program.
(c)
Conditional acceptance.
(1) A state installation program that meets the minimum requirements set forth under paragraphs (b)(1), (4), and (5) of this section may be conditionally accepted by the Secretary if the state provides assurances deemed adequate by the Secretary that the state is moving to meet all of the requirements for full acceptance. If the Secretary conditionally accepts a state's installation program, the Secretary will provide to the state an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance.
(2) A conditionally accepted state will be permitted to implement its own installation program in lieu of the HUD-administered program for a period of not more than 3 years. The Secretary may for good cause grant an extension of conditional approval upon petition by the state.
(d)
Limited exemptions from requirements.
A state installation program may be accepted by the Secretary as a
qualifying installation program if the state can demonstrate that it lacks legal authority, as a matter of federal law, to impose the minimum requirements set forth under paragraph (b) of this section in certain geographic areas of the state, but that the minimum requirements do apply in all other geographic areas of the state.
§ 3286.805
Procedures for identification as qualified installation program.
(a)
Submission of certification.
(1) A state seeking identification as having a qualified installation program must submit a completed State Installation Program Certification form to the Secretary for review and acceptance and indicate if the installation program will be part of its approved state plan in accordance with part 3282 of this chapter.
(2) A state must include a qualified installation program as part of any state plan application submitted for approval under § 3282.302 of this chapter, if the state does not have a fully or conditionally approved state plan in effect at the time of submission of the state plan application. In all other cases, a qualified installation program is permitted, but is not required, to be submitted as a part of a state plan approved in accordance with § 3282.305 of this chapter.
(b)
HUD review and action.
(1) The Secretary will review the State Installation Program Certification form submitted by a state and may request that the state submit additional information as necessary. Unless the Secretary has contacted the state for additional information or has conditionally accepted or rejected the state installation program, the state installation program will be considered to have been accepted by the Secretary as a fully qualifying installation program as of the earlier of:
(i) Ninety days after the Secretary receives the state's completed State Installation Program Certification form; or
(ii) The date that the Secretary issues notification to the state of its full acceptance.
(2) A notice of full or conditional acceptance will include the effective date of acceptance.
(c)
Rejection of state installation program.
(1) If the Secretary intends to reject a state's installation program, the Secretary will provide to the state an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full or conditional acceptance. The state will be given 90 days from the date the Secretary provides such explanation to submit a revised State Installation Program Certification form.
(2) If the Secretary decides that any revised State Installation Program Certification form is inadequate, or if the state fails to submit a revised form within the 90-day period or otherwise indicates that it does not intend to change its form, the Secretary will notify the state that its installation program is not accepted.
(3) A state whose State Installation Program Certification form is rejected has a right to a presentation of views on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter. The state's request for a presentation of views must be submitted to the Secretary within 60 days after the Secretary has provided notification that the state's installation program has been rejected.
§ 3286.807
Recertification required.
(a)
Recertification.
To maintain its status as a qualified installation program when the installation program is not part of the approved state plan in accordance with part 3282 of this chapter, a state must submit a new State Installation Program Certification form to the Secretary for review and action as follows:
(1) Every 5 years after the state's most recent certification as a qualified installation program; and
(2) Whenever there is a change to the state's installation program or a change in the HUD requirements applicable to qualifying installation programs such that the state's installation program no longer complies with the minimum requirements set forth in § 3286.803(b), regardless of when the state's next regular recertification of its installation program would be due.
(b)
Due date of recertification.
(1) A state's recertification required in paragraph (a) of this section must be filed within 90 days of, as applicable:
(i) The 5-year anniversary of the effective date of the Secretary's acceptance of the state's most recent certification as a qualified installation program; and
(ii) The effective date of the state or HUD action that makes a significant change to the state's installation program.
(2) Upon petition by the state, the Secretary may for good cause grant an extension of the deadline for recertification.
(c)
Failure to Recertify.
(1) A state whose certification of its installation program, when the installation program is not part of the approved state plan in accordance with part 3282 of this chapter, has been accepted by the Secretary is permitted to administer its installation program in lieu of the HUD-administered installation program until the effective date of a notification by the Secretary that the state's certification of its installation program is no longer approved.
(2) A state whose recertification of its installation program is rejected by the Secretary has a right to a presentation of views on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter. The state's request for a presentation of views must be submitted to the Secretary within 60 days after the Secretary has provided notification that the state's recertification of its installation program has been rejected.
§ 3286.809
Withdrawal of qualifying installation program status.
(a)
Voluntary withdrawal.
Any state that intends to withdraw from its responsibilities to administer a qualifying installation program should provide the Secretary with a minimum of 90 days notice.
(b)
Involuntary withdrawal.
Whenever the Secretary finds, after affording notice and an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter, that a state installation program fails to comply substantially with any provision of the installation program requirements or that the state program has become inadequate, the Secretary will notify the state of withdrawal of acceptance or conditional acceptance of the state installation program. The HUD-administered installation program will begin to operate in such state at such time as the Secretary establishes in issuing the finding.
§ 3286.811
Effect on other manufactured housing program requirements.
A state with a qualifying installation program will operate in lieu of HUD with respect to only the installation program established under subparts B through H of this part. No state may permit its installation program, even if it is a qualified installation program under this part, to supersede the requirements applicable to HUD's Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards and enforcement programs. Regardless of whether a state has a qualified installation program:
(a)
Construction and safety standards.
Any responsibilities, rights, and remedies applicable under the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act in part 3280 of this chapter and the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations in part 3282 of this chapter continue to apply as provided in those parts; and
(b)
Dispute resolution.
For any defect in a manufactured home that is reported during the one-year period beginning on the date of installation defined in § 3286.115, any responsibilities, rights, and remedies applicable under the HUD dispute resolution program as implemented in part 3288 of this chapter continue to apply as provided in that part.
§ 3286.813
Inclusion in state plan.
If a state installation program is included in a state plan approved in accordance with § 3282.302 of this chapter, the state installation program is subject to all of the requirements for such a state plan, including annual review by HUD.
Pt. 3288

# PART 3288—MANUFACTURED HOME DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3288.1
Purpose and scope.
3288.3
Definitions.
3288.5
Retailer notification at sale.

# Subpart B—HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program in HUD-Administered States
3288.10
Applicability.
3288.15
Eligibility for dispute resolution.
3288.20
Reporting a defect.
3288.25
Initiation of dispute resolution.
3288.30
Screening of dispute resolution request.
3288.33
Notice of dispute resolution.
3288.35
Mediation.
3288.40
Nonbinding arbitration.
3288.45
HUD review and order.

# Subpart C—Alternative Process in HUD-Administered States
3288.100
Scope and applicability.
3288.105
Time when Alternative Process is available.
3288.110
Alternative Process agreements.

# Subpart D—State Dispute Resolution Programs in Non-HUD-Administered States
3288.200
Applicability.
3288.205
Minimum requirements.
3288.210
Acceptance and recertification process.
3288.215
Effect on other manufactured home program requirements.

# Subpart E—Dispute Resolution Program Rulemaking Procedures
3288.300
Applicability.
3288.305
Consultation with the Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 5422 and 5424.

# Source:
72 FR 27229, May 14, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3288.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The Act is intended, in part, to protect the quality, safety, durability, and affordability of manufactured homes. Section 623(c)(12) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5422 (c)(12)) requires the implementation of “a dispute resolution program for the timely resolution of disputes between manufacturers, retailers, and installers of manufactured homes regarding responsibility, and for the issuance of appropriate orders, for the correction or repair of defects in manufactured homes that are reported during the 1-year period beginning on the date of installation.” The purpose of this part is to provide a dispute resolution program for the timely resolution of disputes among manufacturers, retailers, and installers regarding the responsibility for correction or repair of defects reported by the homeowner or others and reported in the 1-year period after the first installation of the manufactured home.
(b)
Scope
—(1)
Applicability.
In carrying out this purpose, it is presumed that if a manufactured home contains an alleged defect that is reported in the first year after installation and was not caused by the homeowner, then the manufacturer, retailer, or installer is responsible for the alleged defect and the dispute resolution process recognized in this part is an appropriate means for resolving disputes about responsibility for correction and repair of the alleged defect. For purposes of the dispute resolution process recognized in this part, only alleged defects reported in the first year after the first installation are covered by the process. The state where the home is sited determines whether the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program or a state program applies. Subpart A of this part establishes general provisions applicable to HUD's implementation of a dispute resolution program as required by the Act. Subpart B of this part establishes the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program that HUD will administer in any state that does not establish a program that complies with the Act and been accepted by HUD as provided in subpart D of this part. Subpart C of this part provides an Alternative Process for manufacturers, retailers, and installers who agree that a homeowner is not responsible for the alleged defect to resolve their disputes about responsibility for correction or repair outside of the HUD Mediation and Arbitration Process under subpart B. Subpart D of this part establishes the minimum requirements that must be met by a
state applying to implement its own dispute resolution program that complies with the Act, and the procedure for determining whether the requirements for complying have been met. Subpart E of this part establishes special rulemaking procedures that apply to the issuance of new regulations that implement the dispute resolution requirements set forth in section 623 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5422).
(2)
Warranties not affected.
This part is not a warranty program and the requirements established in this part do not replace the manufacturer's or any other warranty program. Such warranty program may have its own requirements.
§ 3288.3
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Act
means the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5401-5426.
Appropriate order
means an order issued by HUD or an order that is enforceable under state law.
Date of installation
means the date all utilities are connected and the manufactured home is ready for occupancy as established, if applicable, by a certificate of occupancy, except as follows: if the manufactured home has not been sold to the first person purchasing the home in good faith for purposes other than resale by the date the home is ready for occupancy, the date of installation is the date of closing under the purchase agreement or sales contract for the manufactured home.
Day
means a calendar day.
Defect
means any defect in the performance, construction, components, or material of a manufactured home that renders the home or any part of the home not fit for the ordinary use for which it was intended, including, but not limited to, a defect in the construction, safety, or installation of the home. For purposes of state certification under § 3288.205, HUD will find it acceptable if the threshold for the state's program is functionally equivalent to this definition.
Dispute resolution provider
means a person or entity providing dispute resolution services for HUD.
Homeowner
means a person who purchased or leased the manufactured home in good faith for purposes other than resale.
HUD
means the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Installer
means the person who is retained to engage in, or who engages in, the business of directing, supervising, controlling, or correcting the initial installation of a manufactured home.
Manufactured home
has the same meaning as the term “manufactured home” as defined in 24 CFR 3280.2.
Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee or MHCC
means the consensus committee established pursuant to section 604(a)(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5403(a)(3).
Party or parties
means, individually or collectively, the manufacturer, retailer, or installer of a manufactured home in which a defect has been reported in accordance with § 3288.20.
State Administrative Agency
means an agency of a state that has been approved or conditionally approved to carry out the state plan for enforcement of the standards pursuant to section 623 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5422.
Timely reporting
means the reporting of an alleged defect within 1 year after the date of installation of a manufactured home in accordance with § 3288.20.
Timely resolution
means the resolution of disputes among manufacturers, retailers, and installers within 120 days of the time a request for dispute resolution is made, except that if the defect presents an unreasonable risk of injury, death, or significant loss or damage to valuable personal property, the resolution must be within 60 days of the time a request for dispute resolution is made.
§ 3288.5
Retailer notification at sale.
Retailer notice at the time of signing.
At the time of signing a contract for sale or lease for a manufactured home, the retailer must provide the purchaser with a retailer notice. This notice may be in a separate document from the sales contract or may be incorporated clearly in a separate section on consumer dispute resolution information at the top of the sales contract. The notice must include the following language:
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program is available to resolve disputes among manufacturers, retailers, or installers concerning defects in manufactured homes. Many states also have a consumer assistance or dispute resolution program. For additional information about these programs, see sections titled “Dispute Resolution Process” and “Additional Information—HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program” in the Consumer Manual required to be provided to the purchaser. These programs are not warranty programs and do not replace the manufacturer's, or any other person's, warranty program.

# Subpart B—HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program in HUD-Administered States
§ 3288.10
Applicability.
The requirements of the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program established in this subpart B apply in each state that does not establish a state dispute resolution program that complies with the Act and has been accepted by HUD as provided in subpart D of this part.
§ 3288.15
Eligibility for dispute resolution.
(a)
Initiation of actions.
Manufacturers, retailers, and installers of manufactured homes are eligible to initiate and participate in the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program. Homeowners may initiate action under, and be observers to, the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program.
(b)
Eligible disputes.
Only disputes concerning alleged defects that have been reported to the manufacturer, retailer, installer, HUD, or a State Administrative Agency within 1 year after the date of the first installation of the manufactured home are eligible for resolution through the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program. The eligible dispute includes the defect alleged in a timely report and any related issues.
§ 3288.20
Reporting a defect.
(a)
Making a report.
To preserve the right to request dispute resolution through HUD, alleged defects must be reported to the manufacturer, retailer, installer, HUD, or a State Administrative Agency. An alleged defect may be reported by a homeowner, manufacturer, retailer, or installer.
(b)
Form of report.
It is recommended that alleged defects be reported in writing, including, but not limited to, e-mail, written letter, certified mail, or fax. The existence of an alleged defect may also be reported by telephone.
(c)
Content of report.
No particular form or format is required to report an alleged defect, but any such report must, at a minimum, include a description of the alleged defect, the name of homeowner, and the address of the home.
(d)
Record of report
—(1)
To evidence timeliness.
To establish timely reporting, the report of an alleged defect that is made to the manufacturer, retailer, installer, or a State Administrative Agency of the manufactured home should be done in a manner that will create a dated record of the report that demonstrates that the report was made within 1 year after the date of installation; for example, by certified mail, fax, or email. Persons who report an alleged defect by telephone should make a contemporaneous note of the telephone call, including date, time, the name of the person who received the report, the name of the business contacted, and the telephone number called. If the matter goes to arbitration, the arbitrator and HUD will review whether there is sufficient evidence to believe the report was made on a timely basis.
(2)
Obligation to retain.
Each report of a defect, including logs of telephonic complaints, received by a manufacturer, retailer, a State Administrative Agency or installer, must be maintained for 3 years from the date of receipt.
(e)
Reports made to a State Administrative Agency.
Reports of defects in the manufactured home that are made in the first year after its installation can be sent to the appropriate State Administrative Agency. Contact information about a State Administrative Agency is available at
http://www.hud.gov.
Contact the appropriate
State Administrative Agency to determine the method for making the report.
(f)
Reports made to HUD.
Reports of alleged defects in the manufactured home that are made in the first year after its installation can be sent to HUD. The report to HUD may be made using any of the following methods:
(1) In writing at: HUD, Office of Regulatory Affairs and Manufactured Housing, Attn: Dispute Resolution, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410-8000;
(2) By telephone at: (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891;
(3) By fax at: (202) 708-4213; or
(4) By e-mail at
mhs@hud.gov.
(g)
Effect of report.
The reporting of an alleged defect does not initiate the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program, but only establishes whether the requirement of timely reporting in accordance with § 3288.15(b) has been met. The HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Process is initiated when a request for dispute resolution is submitted to HUD in accordance with § 3288.25.
§ 3288.25
Initiation of dispute resolution.
(a)
Preliminary effort.
HUD strongly encourages the homeowner or party reporting an alleged defect to seek to resolve the dispute directly with any manufacturer, retailer, or installer that the person reporting the defect believes to be responsible before initiating the HUD dispute resolution process.
(b)
Request for dispute resolution.
Any of the parties or the homeowner may initiate the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program at any time after an alleged defect has been reported, by requesting dispute resolution, as follows:
(1) By mailing, e-mailing, or otherwise delivering a written request for dispute resolution to the dispute resolution provider at the address or e-mail address provided either at
http://www.hud.gov,
or by contacting HUD's Office of Regulatory Affairs and Manufactured Housing at (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891;
(2) By faxing a request for dispute resolution to the fax number provided either at
http://www.hud.gov,
or by contacting HUD's Office of Regulatory Affairs and Manufactured Housing at (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891; or
(3) By telephoning a request for dispute resolution to the number provided either at
http://www.hud.gov,
or by contacting HUD's Office of Regulatory Affairs and Manufactured Housing at (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891.
(c)
Requested information.
The dispute resolution provider will request at least the following information when a person seeks to initiate dispute resolution under the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program:
(1) The name, address, and contact information of the homeowner;
(2) The name and contact information of the manufacturer, retailer, and installer of the manufactured home, to the extent available;
(3) The date the report of the alleged defect was made;
(4) The name and contact information of the recipient or recipients of the report of the alleged defect;
(5) The date of installation of the manufactured home affected by the alleged defect; and
(6) A description of the alleged defect.
§ 3288.30
Screening of dispute resolution request.
(a)
Review for sufficiency.
When the request for dispute resolution has been received by the dispute resolution provider, a screening neutral will review the sufficiency of the information provided in the request for dispute resolution and determine if the dispute resolution process should proceed. If the screening neutral determines that a defect is properly alleged and timely reported, notice of the request will be forwarded, as provided in § 3288.33, to the manufacturer, retailer, and installer, as appropriate and to the extent the appropriate parties can be identified based on the information in the request.
(b)
Insufficient information.
If a request for dispute resolution is lacking any information necessary to determine if the dispute resolution process should proceed, the screening neutral
will contact the requester or the parties about supplementing the initial request. If information necessary to qualify the matter for the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program is not received within a reasonable time established by the screening neutral, the request for dispute resolution will be considered withdrawn.
(c)
Denial of a dispute.
Denial by all of the parties that there is a dispute does not preclude the dispute resolution process from going forward to mediation. A screening neutral's determination that a defect is properly alleged is prima facie evidence of a dispute. If the defect has not been corrected or repaired, the matter will be referred to mediation.
(d)
Determination of unreasonable risk.
If the screening neutral determines there is sufficient documentation of an alleged defect presenting an unreasonable risk of injury or death, he or she will send a copy of the request to HUD.
§ 3288.33
Notice of dispute resolution.
(a) Once the screening neutral determines that a defect is properly alleged and timely reported, notice about the request will be forwarded to the parties by overnight delivery, commercial carrier, or fax.
(b) If the parties have not initiated the Alternative Process in accordance with § 3288.105 of this part within 7 days of the screening neutral's notification, the screening neutral will refer the matter to mediation.
§ 3288.35
Mediation.
(a)
Mediator.
The dispute resolution provider will provide for the selection of a mediator. The selected mediator will not be the person who screened the dispute resolution request. The selected mediator will mediate the dispute and attempt to facilitate a settlement. If a party identifies any other party that should be included in the mediation, the mediator will contact the other party and provide information about the scheduled mediation meetings.
(b)
Time
—(1)
For reaching settlement.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the parties are allowed 30 days from the commencement of the mediation to reach a mediated settlement. In every case, the dispute resolution provider will notify the parties and the homeowner, in writing, of the date of the commencement of the mediation.
(2)
Alleged defects presenting an unreasonable risk of injury, death, or significant loss or damage to valuable personal property.
For mediations involving alleged defects that appear to present an unreasonable risk of injury, death, or significant loss or damage to valuable personal property as determined by the screening neutral, the parties have a maximum 10 days from the commencement of the mediation to reach a settlement.
(3)
For corrective repairs.
Unless a longer period is agreed to in writing by the parties to the mediated settlement and the homeowner, corrective repairs must be completed no later than 30 days after the date the settlement agreement is signed by the applicable parties.
(c)
Denial of dispute.
During mediation, denial of a dispute by all parties without acceptance of responsibility will result in the mediator referring the matter to arbitration for determination of the defect and responsibility for the defect.
(d)
Written settlement agreement.
(1) Upon reaching an agreement, the parties will sign a written settlement agreement. The dispute resolution provider will forward copies of the agreements with the original signatures of the parties to the parties, the homeowner, and to HUD.
(2) Sample agreements will be made available to the parties as drafting guidance by the dispute resolution provider.
(e)
Failure of mediation.
If mediation is not successful, parties or the homeowner may proceed to nonbinding arbitration, as provided in § 3288.40 of this part.
(f)
Confidentiality.
Except for the report of an alleged defect, any request for dispute resolution, and any written settlement agreement, all other documents and communications provided in confidence and used in the mediation will be confidential, in accordance with the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996 (5 U.S.C. 571
et seq.
).
§ 3288.40
Nonbinding arbitration.
(a)
When initiated.
(1) If, following mediation under § 3288.35, the parties fail to reach a settlement, any party or the homeowner may, within 15 days of the expiration of the deadline applicable under § 3288.35(b), initiate nonbinding arbitration.
(2) In addition, arbitration may be initiated upon referral by the mediator pursuant to § 3288.35(c).
(b)
Written request
—(1)
Submission to HUD.
A written request for arbitration must be submitted to the dispute resolution provider. Information about the dispute resolution provider and how to make a request for dispute resolution will be available at
http://www.hud.gov
or by contacting HUD's Office of Manufactured Housing Programs at (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891.
(2)
Contents of request.
The written request for arbitration must include:
(i) The name and address of the party making the request;
(ii) A brief description of the alleged defect or a copy of the report of the alleged defect; and
(iii) A copy of the request for dispute resolution.
(c)
Appointment and authority of arbitrator.
Upon receipt of the request, the dispute resolution provider will select an arbitrator. The arbitrator will have the authority to:
(1) Set hearing dates and deadlines;
(2) Conduct on-site inspections;
(3) Issue requests for documentation and information necessary to complete the record;
(4) Dismiss frivolous allegations;
(5) Make proposed findings, including findings of defect and culpability and a disposition recommendation to HUD; and
(6) Recommend apportionment of the responsibility of paying for or providing any correction or repair of the home when recommending that culpability be assessed to more than one party.
(d)
Denial of dispute.
If the parties deny a dispute exists and the arbitrator determines there is a defect, the arbitrator will make a determination of responsibility for the defect.
(e)
Notice to parties.
The dispute resolution provider will provide the parties and the homeowner with a notice setting forth the date, place, and time an arbitration is to be held.
(f)
Proceedings.
(1) If all parties do not request an in-person hearing under paragraph (f)(2) of this section within 5 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, or if the arbitrator rejects the request for an in-person hearing, the arbitrator may conduct either a record review or a telephonic hearing.
(2) If any party wants to request an in-person hearing, in which the parties or their representatives may personally appear before the arbitrator, the arbitrator will consider such a request if it is made by all of the parties that are participating in the arbitration. Such an in-person hearing will be held at the discretion of the arbitrator, after considering appropriate factors, such as cost.
(g)
Effect on nonparticipating parties.
If a party chooses not to participate in the arbitration, the process will continue without further input from that party. In such a case, the arbitrator may rely on the record developed through the arbitration to find a nonparticipating party responsible for correction or repair of a defect.
(h)
Completion of arbitration.
(1) Unless an extension is granted for good cause by HUD, the arbitrator, within 21 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, the arbitrator will complete the arbitration process and provide HUD with all background information used during the arbitration and with a written, nonbinding recommendation as to which party or parties are responsible for the defect, and what corrective actions should be taken.
(2) Unless an extension is granted for good cause by HUD, the arbitrator, within 21 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, will provide the parties with a copy of the nonbinding recommendation that was delivered to HUD, in accordance with § 3288.40(h)(1).
(i)
Settlement offers.
At any time before HUD issues a final order, the parties may submit to HUD a proposal to resolve the dispute.
§ 3288.45
HUD review and order.
(a)
Appropriate order.
HUD will review the arbitrator's recommendation provided in accordance with § 3288.40(h), any settlement offers presented by the parties in accordance with § 3288.40(i), and the information gathered during the arbitration, and will issue an appropriate order in which HUD may accept, modify, or reject the recommendations. HUD will forward a copy of the order to the arbitrator and to each of the parties and the homeowner, whether or not a party chose to participate in the arbitration.
(b)
Contents of order.
If HUD finds that a defect exists, the order will include the following:
(1) Assignment of responsibility for the correction and repair of all defects and associated costs; and
(2) If the manufacturer, retailer, or installer is responsible for corrective action, a date by which the correction and repair of each defect must be completed, taking into consideration the seriousness of the defect.
(c)
Failure to comply.
Failure to comply with an order issued by HUD is a violation of section 610(a)(5) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5409(a)(5)).

# Subpart C—Alternative Process in HUD-Administered States
§ 3288.100
Scope and applicability.
The requirements of this subpart C may be followed in lieu of the requirements of subpart B of this part to resolve disputes among manufacturers, retailers, and installers of manufactured homes in any state where subpart B of this part would otherwise apply. In limited circumstances, this subpart C permits manufacturers, retailers, and installers of manufactured homes to use neutrals of their choosing to resolve disputes concerning alleged defects in manufactured homes.
§ 3288.105
Time when Alternative Process is available.
(a) The Alternative Process may be invoked after an alleged defect has been reported, pursuant to § 3288.15(b). However, the Alternative Process may not be invoked more than 7 days after notification of a request for dispute resolution has been received by all of the parties. The notification must be delivered by overnight delivery, commercial carrier, or fax by the screening neutral, in accordance with § 3288.30. If within 7 days of the receipt of notification, the Alternative Process is not initiated, the screening neutral will refer the matter to the mediator. Once the Alternative Process is invoked, neither the parties nor the homeowner may invoke the Mediation and Arbitration Process in the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program for 30 days.
(b) No particular form or format is required to provide notification for the Alternative Process, but the party or parties submitting the notification must include a statement from the parties participating in the Alternative Process stating that the homeowner is not responsible for the alleged defect and that one or more of the parties will correct or repair the defect. All required agreements are set forth in § 3288.110 of this part. The parties must also make reasonable efforts to include the following information in the notification:
(1) Identification of the case; and
(2) Identification of the parties participating in the Alternative Process.
(c) The screening neutral will notify the parties if the case is referred to the Alternative Process for resolution.
§ 3288.110
Alternative Process agreements.
(a)
Required agreement.
To use the Alternative Process, the manufacturer, retailer, and installer of the manufactured home at issue, as appropriate, must agree:
(1) That there is a defect in the manufactured home;
(2) That the manufacturer, retailer, or installer is responsible for the defect;
(3) That the homeowner is not responsible for the defect;
(4) To engage a neutral to evaluate the dispute and make an assignment of responsibility for correction and repair; and
(5) To notify the homeowner of, and allow the homeowner to be present at, any meetings and to inform the homeowner of the outcome.
(b)
Additional element of agreement.
In addition, the parties should agree to act upon the neutral's assignment of responsibility for correction and repair.

# Subpart D—State Dispute Resolution Programs in Non-HUD Administered States
§ 3288.200
Applicability.
This subpart D establishes the minimum requirements that must be met by a state to implement its own dispute resolution program and therefore not be covered by the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program established in accordance with subpart B. The subpart also establishes the procedure for determining whether the state dispute resolution program meets the requirements of the Act for operating in lieu of the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program.
§ 3288.205
Minimum requirements.
(a)
List of requirements.
The HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program will not be implemented in any state that complies with the procedures of this subpart D and that has a dispute resolution program that provides for the following minimum requirements:
(1) The timely resolution of disputes among manufacturers, retailers, or installers regarding responsibility for correction and repair of defects in manufactured homes;
(2) The issuance of appropriate orders for correction and repair of defects in such homes;
(3) A coverage period for disputes that includes at least defects that are reported within 1 year after the date of first installation; and
(4) Adequate funding and personnel.
(b)
Applicability to programs in state plans.
(1) In order to include a dispute resolution program in a state plan that on February 8, 2008 is fully or conditionally approved under § 3282.302 of this chapter, a state must amend its state plan to provide for the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(2) After February 8, 2008, a state that submits a state plan for approval in accordance with § 3282.302 of this chapter must provide for the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section in its state plan.
§ 3288.210
Acceptance and recertification process.
(a)
Submission of certification.
A state seeking HUD acceptance of its state dispute resolution program under this subpart must submit to HUD a completed Dispute Resolution Certification Form, which is available by contacting HUD by telephone at (202) 708-6423 or by e-mail at
mhs@hud.gov.
The certification may be submitted as a part of, or independent of, a state plan under § 3282.302 of this chapter. If included as part of a state plan, the state does not have to separately certify that it meets the requirements of § 3288.205(a)(4).
(b)
HUD review and action.
(1) HUD will review the Dispute Resolution Certification Form submitted by a state and may contact the state to request additional clarification or information as necessary. Upon completing its review, HUD will provide the state with notice of acceptance, conditional acceptance, or rejection of its dispute resolution program.
(2) A notice of acceptance will include the date of acceptance.
(3) If HUD rejects a state's dispute resolution program, HUD will provide an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance. A revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form may be submitted within 30 days of receipt of such notification. If the revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form is inadequate or if the state fails to resubmit within the 30-day period or otherwise indicates that it does not intend to change its Dispute Resolution Certification Form, HUD will notify the state that its dispute resolution program is not accepted and that it has a right to a hearing on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter.
(c)
Conditional acceptance.
A state meeting three of the four minimum requirements set forth under § 3288.205(a)(1) through (4) will be conditionally accepted by HUD. If HUD conditionally accepts a state's dispute resolution program, HUD will provide an
explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance. A revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form may be submitted within 30 days of receipt of such notification. Any state conditionally accepted will be permitted to implement its own dispute resolution program for a period of not more than 3 years, absent extension of this period by HUD.
(d)
Revocation.
If HUD becomes aware at any time that a state no longer meets the minimum requirements set forth under § 3288.205, HUD may revoke acceptance of the state's certification after an opportunity for a hearing, using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282.
(e)
Recertification of a program not included in state plan.
Except as provided in paragraph (f), to maintain its accepted status, a state whose program is not included in an approved or conditionally approved state plan must submit a current Dispute Resolution Certification Form to HUD for review and acceptance as follows:
(1) Every 3 years within 90 days of the day and month of the most recent date of HUD's acceptance of the state's program or
(2) Whenever there is a significant change to the program.
(f)
Inclusion in state plan.
If a state dispute resolution program is part of a state plan, it will be reviewed annually as part of the state plan and separate recertification of the state's dispute resolution program is not required.
§ 3288.215
Effect on other manufactured home program requirements.
A state with an accepted dispute resolution program will operate in lieu of HUD's Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program established under subpart B of this part 3288. A state dispute resolution program, even if it is an accepted dispute resolution program under this part, does not supersede the requirements applicable to any other aspect of HUD's manufactured home program. Any responsibilities, rights, and remedies applicable under the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards in part 3280 of this chapter and the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations in part 3282 of this chapter continue to apply as provided in those parts in all states.

# Subpart E—Dispute Resolution Program Rulemaking Procedures
§ 3288.300
Applicability.
This subpart establishes special regulatory procedures for issuing or revising dispute resolution program regulations as codified in this part.
§ 3288.305
Consultation with the Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee.
HUD will seek input from the MHCC when revising the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program regulations in this part 3288. Before publication of a proposed rule to revise these regulations, HUD will provide the MHCC with an opportunity to comment on such revision. The MHCC may send to HUD any of the MHCC's own recommendations to adopt new dispute resolution program regulations or to modify or repeal any of the regulations in this part. Along with each recommendation, the MHCC must set forth pertinent data and arguments in support of the action sought. HUD will either: accept or modify the recommendation and publish it for public comment in accordance with section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553), along with an explanation of the reasons for any such modification; or reject the recommendation entirely, and provide to the MHCC a written explanation of the reasons for the rejection. This section does not supersede section 605 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5404).
PARTS 3289-3799 [RESERVED]
Pt. 3800

# PART 3800—INVESTIGATIONS IN CONSUMER REGULATORY PROGRAMS
Sec.
3800.10
Scope of rules.
3800.20
Subpoenas in investigations.
3800.30
Subpoena enforcement in district court.
3800.40
Investigational proceedings.
3800.50
Rights of witnesses in investigational proceedings.
3800.60
Settlements.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 1714; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 5413.

# Source:
61 FR 10441, Mar. 13, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3800.10
Scope of rules.
This part applies to investigations and investigational proceedings undertaken by the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, pursuant to the following:
(a) The Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, 15 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
(b) The National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5401
et seq.;
and
(c) The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, 12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
§ 3800.20
Subpoenas in investigations.
(a) The Secretary may issue subpoenas relating to any matter under investigation. A subpoena may:
(1) Require testimony to be taken by interrogatories;
(2) Require the attendance and testimony of witnesses at a specific time and place;
(3) Require access to, examination of, and the right to copy documents; and
(4) Require the production of documents at a specific time and place.
(b) A subpoenaed person may petition the Secretary or the Secretary's designee to modify or withdraw a subpoena by filing the petition within 10 days after service of the subpoena. The petition may be in letter form, but must set forth the facts and law upon which the petition is based.
§ 3800.30
Subpoena enforcement in district court.
In the case of contumacy of a witness or a witness's refusal to obey a subpoena or order of the Secretary, the United States district court for the jurisdiction in which an investigation is carried on may issue an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. HUD headquarters in Washington, DC, is one of the locations in which the Secretary carries on investigations of its consumer regulatory programs.
§ 3800.40
Investigational proceedings.
(a) For the purpose of hearing the testimony of witnesses and receiving documents and other data relating to any subject under investigation, the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, may conduct an investigational proceeding.
(b) The Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, (“presiding official”) shall preside over the investigational proceeding. The proceeding shall be stenographically or mechanically reported. A transcript shall be a part of the record of the investigation.
(c) Unless the presiding official determines otherwise, investigational proceedings shall be public.
(d) The presiding official shall take all necessary action to regulate the course of the proceeding to avoid delay and to maintain order. If necessary to maintain order, the presiding official may exclude a witness or counsel from a proceeding. The Department may also take further action as permitted by statute.
§ 3800.50
Rights of witnesses in investigational proceedings.
(a) Any person who testifies at a public investigational proceeding shall be entitled, on payment of costs, to purchase a copy of a transcript of the testimony the person provided.
(b) In a nonpublic investigational proceeding, the presiding official may for good cause limit a witness to an inspection of the official transcript of that witness's testimony.
(c) Any person subpoenaed to appear at an investigational proceeding may be represented by counsel as follows:
(1) With respect to any question asked of a witness, a witness may obtain confidential advice from counsel;
(2) If a witness refuses to answer a question, counsel for the witness may briefly state the legal grounds for the refusal;
(3) Counsel for the witness may object to a question or a request for production of documents that is beyond the scope of the investigation or for which a privilege of the witness to refuse to answer may be invoked. In so doing, counsel for the witness may
state briefly the grounds for the objection. Objections will be deemed continuing throughout the course of the proceeding. Repetitious or cumulative statements of an objection or the grounds for an objection are unnecessary and impermissible; and
(4) After the Department's examination of a witness, counsel for the witness may request that the witness be permitted to clarify any answers to correct any ambiguity, equivocation, or incompleteness in the witness's testimony. The decision to grant or deny this request is within the sole discretion of the presiding official.
§ 3800.60
Settlements.
(a) At any time during an investigation, the Department and the parties subject to an investigation may conduct settlement negotiations.
(b) When the Secretary or Secretary's designee deems it appropriate, the Department may enter into a settlement agreement.
PARTS 3801-3899 [RESERVED]
24 CFR Ch. XXV (4-1-25 Edition)
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corp.

# CHAPTER XXV—NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
Part
Page
4100
Organization and channeling of functions
305
4101-4199
[Reserved]
Pt. 4100

# PART 4100—ORGANIZATION AND CHANNELING OF FUNCTIONS
Sec.
4100.1
Functions and activities.
4100.2
General organization.
4100.3
Field activities.
4100.4
Inquiries.

# Authority:
Title VI, Pub. L. 95-557, 92 Stat. 2115 (42 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
); as amended by sec. 315, Pub. L. 96-399, 94 Stat. 1645; sec. 710, Pub. L. 97-320, 96 Stat. 1544; and sec. 520, Pub. L. 100-242, 101 Stat. 1815.

# Source:
49 FR 12700, Mar. 30, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4100.1
Functions and activities.
(a)
General statement.
The Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (referred to in this part as
the Corporation
) was established by Congress in the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act (title VI of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-557, October 31, 1978). The Corporation is not a department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
(b) The Corporation is authorized to receive and expend Federal appropriations and other public and private revenues to conduct a variety of programs designed primarily to revitalize older urban neighborhoods by mobilizing public, private, and community resources at the neighborhood level. These programs include:
(1)
Neighborhood Housing Services.
The major effort of the Corporation is to assist local communities in the development, expansion and provision of technical services to local Neighborhood Housing Services (NHS) programs. NHS programs are based upon partnerships of community residents, and representatives of local governments and financial institutions. Each local program is administered by an autonomous, private, non-profit corporation, and conducts a comprehensive revitalization effort in locally selected neighborhoods. Services to neighborhood residents include rehabilitation counseling, construction assistance, financial counseling, loan referrals and loans at flexible rates and terms to homeowners who do not meet private lending criteria. Programs and strategies to remove blighting influences, obtain improved public services and amenities, and improve the neighborhood's image and the functioning of its real estate market are also undertaken. To insure the continuing effectiveness of NHS programs, the Corporation provides grants, training, information and technical services to NHS programs.'
(2)
Mutual Housing Associations.
The Corporation also supports the organizational development of, and provides technical assistance to, Mutual Housing Associations. Mutual Housing Associations are private, nonprofit organizations which own, manage and continually develop affordable housing. Mutual Housing residents are members of the Association which owns and manages their buildings; thus they enjoy the security of long-term housing tenure. Mutual Housing developments are capitalized through up-front grants and mortgages in a combination that ensures permanent affordability to low- and moderate-income families. Monthly housing charges to residents are kept at affordable levels on a continuing basis. A key element of Mutual Housing is the Association's commitment to use all resources in excess of operating and maintenance costs for the production of additional units. A Mutual Housing Association's board of directors includes current member-residents, potential residents, and representatives from the community, local government and business. Residents and community members make up the majority on the board. A highly qualified professional staff, employed by the Mutual Housing Association, carries out the day-to-day activities of the organization. In addition to creating new affordable housing opportunities, Mutual Housing Associations offer a creative alternative for subsidized rental housing developments whose subsidies are scheduled to expire.
(3)
Neighborhood preservation projects.
The Corporation identifies, monitors, evaluates and supports through demonstration grants and technical assistance other promising neighborhood preservation strategies based on local, public-private partnerships.
(4)
Programmatic supplements.
Proven, replicable programmatic tools are offered as broadly as resources permit. Often, these selected strategies are supported by Neighborhood Reinvestment grants. The Corporation's major programmatic supplements include the following:
(i)
Neighborhood economic development and commercial revitalization strategies.
The Corporation's neighborhood economic development and commercial revitalization strategies offer NHSs a variety of tools designed to stabilize and enhance the economic base of NHS neighborhoods. They complement NHSs' revitalization mission by focusing the energies and resources of the partnership on the economic issues underlying neighborhood decline. Neighborhood economic development and commercial revitalization assures a viable neighborhood economy by strengthening small businesses and improving the physical environment of the area, thus providing additional goods, services, and employment opportunities for the community.
(ii)
Housing Development Strategies.
The Corporation's Housing Development Strategies program addresses the shortage of affordable, quality housing available to low to moderate income families in NHS neighborhoods, as well as the blighting effect of vacant lots and substandard properties. Home ownership opportunities are created through the planning and implementation of a variety of housing mechanisms by the NHS, which are intended to reverse negative real estate market trends, enhance new residential growth, and create renewed neighborhood pride. The mechanisms being used to achieve these goals include the following.
(A) The Owner Built Housing program is a supervised housing construction process that helps moderate-income homeowners to collectively build their own homes. The NHS provides technical assistance while private lenders and public bodies providing financing.
(B) The Owner Rehab Housing program assists low to moderate income families in collectively rehabilitating existing blighted and vacant structures.
(C) The Infill Housing program provides a mechanism for assisting NHSs in building new units on vacant land to meet the needs of prospective lower income homeowners.
(D) The Urban Subdivisions program focuses on providing low cost, new housing for low-to-moderate income families on tracts of land suitable for the construction of 20 or more units.
(iii)
Problem properties strategies.
This program assists NHSs in addressing specific problem areas beyond the scope of basic NHS services and typical financial resources. Through the implementation of various problem properties strategies, NHS programs are able to assist tenants to purchase, improve the physical condition of target blocks, eliminate vacant neighborhood eyesores, develop housing and service facilities for special populations, and stimulate private reinvestment and new conventional mortgages in the NHS community.
(5)
Apartment Improvement Program.
The goal of the Apartment Improvement Program is to provide an effective, economical means of revitalizing and preserving neighborhoods with multi-family housing for the benefit of the current residents. The program is based upon a partnership of tenants and community representatives, property owners and managers, financial institutions and local government. The program assists in the development of an individually tailored improvement plan of activities from which each building may benefit, including tenant participation, tax assessment reviews, and increased investment or restructured mortgages to improve the economic viability of the buildings and to finance improvements.
(6)
Neighborhood Housing Services of America.
The Corporation also supports Neighborhood Housing Services of America (NHSA), an independent, private, non-profit corporation which provides a variety of services to local NHS programs, including a secondary market for NHS revolving loan fund loans, and the strengthening of private sector resources available to the network of local NHSs.
[49 FR 12700, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 13061, Mar. 30, 1989]
§ 4100.2
General organization.
(a)
The Board of Directors.
(1) The Corporation is under the direction of a Board of Directors composed of six members: the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board designated by the Chairman; the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System designated by the Chairman; the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the appointive member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if so designated by the Chairman; the Comptroller of the Currency; and the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration, or a member of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration designated by the Chairman. Members of the Board serve without additional compensation. The Board elects from among its members a Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The Bylaws of the Corporation provide for the creation of an Audit Committee, and such other committees as the Board may from time to time establish.
(2) The Board holds an Annual Meeting each year during the month of May (or as the Bylaws or the Board may specify). The Board also holds regular meetings at least quarterly and special meetings as required. The meetings of the Board are conducted in accordance with provisions of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act, the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b), the Corporation's Bylaws, and when not inconsistent with the foregoing, with Robert's Rules of Order. Every portion of every meeting of the Board is open to public observation except as provided by the Government in the Sunshine Act. Interested members of the public may attend such meetings, but may not participate therein unless invited or permitted to do so by the Board.
(3) The Secretary of the Corporation, in consultation with the Corporation's General Counsel, is responsible for taking such steps as are required to ensure the Corporation's compliance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, as that Act may be amended from time to time. Consistent with this responsibility, the Secretary of the Corporation provides to the Communications Department at the principal office of the Corporation such records as the Act requires to be made available to the public for access during regular office hours on regular business days.
(b)
The Officers.
(1) The officers of the Corporation are the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, the Secretary, the Treasurer, and such other officer positions as the Board may, in consultation with the Executive Director, create. The Board elects the officers of the Corporation annually.
(2) The Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act provides that the Executive Director shall serve as the chief executive officer of the Corporation. Consistent with that authority, the Corporation's Bylaws provide that the Executive Director shall have the responsibility and authority for the day-to-day administration of the affairs of the Corporation under the general supervision of the Board. The Board periodically reviews the activities of the Executive Director and, from time to time, provides guidance and policy direction to the Executive Director in the exercise of his or her authority.
(3) The responsibilities and authorities of the other officers of the Corporation are set forth in the Corporation's Bylaws, resolutions and policies adopted by the Board, duties and authorities delegated to each officer, other statutes and this statement. (See, for example, the Government in the Sunshine Act and paragraph (a)(3) of this section for specific duties of the Secretary and General Counsel.)
(c)
Principal office.
The Corporation maintains its principal office in the District of Columbia. Currently, the principal office is maintained at 1325 G Street NW., Suite 800, Washington, DC 20005.
[49 FR 12700, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 13062, Mar. 30, 1989]
§ 4100.3
Field activities.
The Corporation conducts its field activities from district and field offices around the country. District offices
provide coordination of field activities in support of local programs within the geographic limits of each district. Field offices within each district provide assistance in the development and support of local programs. A current directory of all district and field offices can be obtained upon request from the Communications Department, Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, 1325 G Street NW., Suite 800, Washington, DC 20005.
[49 FR 12700, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 13061, Mar. 30, 1989]
§ 4100.4
Inquiries.
(a)
General.
All requests for information, forms, and records should be addressed to: Communications Department, Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, 1325 G Street NW., Suite 800, Washington, DC 20005.
(b)
Applications.
Applications for the Corporation's assistance in the development of NHS programs and complementary programs and strategies, or the support of other promising neighborhood strategies are accepted on an ongoing basis. Local governmental or nonprofit entities should submit completed applications (forms are available upon request), including supportive materials, to the Corporation at the address stated in paragraph (a) of this section. The Corporation reviews applications to determine their readiness for development or support. Promising applications are selected for field reviews. Subject to the availability of the Corporation's resources, the Corporation may enter into agreements with top ranking applicants to provide financial and technical assistance in the development or support of selected programs. The application form contains a list of the criteria used for determining the readiness and promise of applications.
(c)
Records.
(1) The Corporation maintains such records and information for public inspection and copying as are required by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), as that Act may be amended from time to time. Records are available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours on regular business days at the address stated in paragraph (a) of this section. Requests for records should be submitted in writing and state the full name and address of the person requesting the records and a description of the records or other information sought that is reasonably sufficient to permit their identification without undue difficulty. A request should be submitted sufficiently in advance of the date inspection or copying is desired, preferably by mail.
(2) Although the Corporation finds that the publication of indexes of statements of policy and interpretations or administrative staff manuals and instructions would be unnecessary and impracticable, such information will be made available upon request.
(d)
Fees for providing copies for records.
Fees shall be assessed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) in order to recover the full allowable direct costs of providing copies of records. For purposes of this section, the term
direct costs
means those expenditures which the Corporation actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and in the case of commercial use requesters, reviewing) documents to respond to a Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) request. Direct costs include, for example, the salaries of the employees performing the work (the basic rate of pay plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplicating equipment. The term
search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming. The term
duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a document necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microfilm, audiovisual materials, or machine readable documentation (e.g., magnetic tape or disk), among others. The term
review
refers to the process of examining documents located in response to a commercial use request to determine whether any portion of any document is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure, e.g., doing all that is necessary to exise them and otherwise prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general
legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. A schedule based on these principles is set forth in paragraph (d)(9) of this section.
(1)
Categories of requesters.
Fees will be assessed according to the category of the requester. There are four categories:
(i)
Commercial use requesters.
For purposes of this section, the term
commercial use request
refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining whether a requester properly belongs in this category, the Corporation will look to the use to which the requester will put the documents requested. If the use is not clear from the request itself, or if there is reasonable cause to doubt the requester's stated use, the Corporation shall seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a specific category.
(ii)
Educational and noncommercial scientific institution requesters.
For purposes of this section, the term
educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research. The term
noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a
commercial
basis, as that term is used in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must show that the request is made as authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution, and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a noncommercial scientific institution) research.
(iii)
Requesters who are representatives of the news media.
For purposes of this section, the term
representative of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering information for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of
news
) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. In the case of
freelance
journalists, they may be regarded as working for a news organization if they demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Corporation may also look at the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must meet the criteria above, and his or her request must not be made for a commercial use. In reference to this class of requester, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.
(iv) All other requesters.
(2)
Limitations on fees to be charged
—(i)
Commercial use requesters.
Commercial use requesters shall be assessed the full direct costs for searching for, reviewing, and duplicating records, in accordance with the fee schedule at paragraph (d)(9) of this section. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to the free search time or free pages of duplication provided to other categories of requesters.
(ii)
Educational and noncommercial scientific institution requesters.
Requesters in this category may be assessed fees only for duplication of records in excess of the first 100 pages. Requesters in this category may not be assessed fees for search or review.
(iii)
Requesters who are representatives of the news media.
Requesters in this category may be assessed fees only for duplication of records in excess of the
first 100 pages. Requesters in this category may not be assessed fees for research or review.
(iv)
All other requesters.
Requesters who do not fit into any of the categories above shall be assessed fees only for searching and duplicating records, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. Requesters in this category may not be assessed fees for review.
(v)
Review of records.
Charges will be assessed only for the initial review of the located documents and not for time spent at the administrative appeal level on an exemption applied at the initial determination level. However, where records or portions of records are withheld in full under an exemption which is subsequently determined not to apply, and these records are reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered, charges for review are properly assessable.
(vi)
Additional copies.
The Corporation will normally furnish only one copy of any record. The allowance of 100 free pages of duplication under paragraphs (d)(2) (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section shall not apply to additional copies furnished at the request of the record requester. Full duplication fees shall be assessed for each page of each such additional copy.
(3)
Charges for unsuccessful search.
Where applicable under paragraph (d)(2) of this section search fees may be assessed for time spent searching, even if the Corporation fails to locate the records or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(4)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
Unless the person making the request states in his or her initial request that he or she will pay all costs regardless of amount, the Corporation will notify him or her as soon as possible if there is reason to believe that the cost for obtaining access to and/or copies of such records will exceed $25. If such notice is given, the time limitations contained in the Freedom of Information Act shall not commence until the person making the intitial request agrees in writing to pay such cost.
(5)
Advance payments.
The Communications Director is authorized to require an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges whenever he or she determines that:
(i) The allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250 and the requester has no history of payment and cannot provide satisfactory assurance that payment will be made; or
(ii) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely manner.
If such a payment is required, the time limitations contained in the Freedom of Information Act shall not commence until payment is made.
(6)
Charging interest.
The Corporation will assess interest charges on any unpaid fees starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing for fees was sent to the requester. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing. Receipt of the fee by the Corporation, even if not processed, will stay the accrual of interest. Interest is not chargeable for unpaid advance payments under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(7)
Aggregating requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of the document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Corporation reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Corporation may aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly.
(8)
Waiver or reduction of fee.
The Corporation will furnish documents without charge or at a reduced charge when it is determined that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Corporation and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making a request for a waiver or reduction of fees, a requester should include a clear statement of his or her interest in the requested documents: The
proposed use for the documents and whether the requester will derive income or other benefit from such use; and a statement of how the public will benefit from such use. Determinations concerning waiver or reduction of fees shall be made by the Executive Director, or his or her designee.
(9)
Schedule of fees.
Fees for searching for, reviewing, duplicating, and providing records and information of the Corporation under this section will be assessed in accordance with the following schedule:
(i)
Manual search.
For each quarter hour or fraction thereof: $3.37.
(ii)
Computer search.
For each quarter hour or fraction thereof: $3.37.
(iii)
Review.
For each quarter hour or fraction thereof: $4.87.
(iv)
Duplication.
(A) For a paper photocopy of an existing paper record, $.10 per page.
(B) For duplication of records other than existing paper records (such as computer-stored information, audio or video tapes, microfiche or microfilm), the fee shall equal the actual direct cost of production and duplication of the records or information in a form that is reasonably usable by the requester.
(10)
Processing costs.
The Communications Director will waive payment in instances in which the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fee.
[49 FR 12700, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 50953, Dec. 19, 1989]
PARTS 4101-4199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
24 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
24 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3280 Authority citation revised
5565
3280.4 (p)(25) through (33) redesignated as (p)(26) through (34); new (p)(25) added; new (p)(31) revised; incorporation by reference
5566
3280.5 (i) added
5566
3280.308 Revised
5566
3280.309 Removed
5566
3280.406 Revised
5566
3280.407 Added
5566
3282 Authority citation revised
5566
3282.7 (o) added
5566
3282.10 Revised; eff. 4-6-20
13045
3282.212 Added
5566
3282.257 Added
5567
3282.307 (b) revised
71834
3284.10 Revised
71834
2021
24 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3280.2 Amended
2516
3280.2 Regulation at 86 FR 2516 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.3 Revised
2516
3280.3 Regulation at 86 FR 2516 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.4 (a) revised; (p)(27) through (34) and (aa)(4)(xvi) through (xix) redesignated as (p)(28) through (35) and (aa)(4)(xvii) through (xx); (m)(2), new (p)(27), new (aa)(4)(xvi), new (9), and new (hh)(23) added; (p) introductory text and new (hh)(9) amended
2516
3280.4 Regulation at 86 FR 2516 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.5 (d) through (i) redesignated as (e) through (j); new (d) added
2516
3280.5 Regulation at 86 FR 2516 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.11 (d) revised
2517
3280.11 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.103 (b) introductory text revised; (d) added
2517
3280.103 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.108 (c) added
2517
3280.108 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.111 Revised
2517
3280.111 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.113 (b) through (d) redesignated as (c) through (e); new (b) added
2517
3280.113 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.114 Added
2517
3280.114 Regulation at 86 FR 2517 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.209 (a) revised; (b) through (f) redesignated as (c) through (g); new (b) added
2518
3280.209 Regulation at 86 FR 2518 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.211 Added
2519
3280.211 Regulation at 86 FR 2519 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.212 Added
2519
3280.212 Regulation at 86 FR 2519 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.213 Added
2519
3280.213 Regulation at 86 FR 2519 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.305 (a), (e)(1), (g)(6), and (h)(5) revised
2520
3280.305 Correction: (a), (e)(1), and (g)(6) revised; (h)(5) added
10457
3280.305 Correction: (h)(5) introductory text amended
10457
3280.305 Regulation at 86 FR 2520 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.307 (e) added
2520
3280.307 Regulation at 86 FR 2520 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.504 (a)(3) added; (b) introductory text revised
2521
3280.504 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.506 Introductory text and (a) through (c) redesignated as (a) through (d); new (c) revised
2521
3280.506 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.602 Amended
2521
3280.602 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.608 (b) revised
2521
3280.608 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.609 (c)(1)(iii) revised; (c)(1)(iv) added
2521
3280.609 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.610 (c)(1) heading and (4) heading added; (c)(5) revised
2521
3280.610 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.611 (c)(1)(i) amended; (c)(1)(ii) revised
2521
3280.611 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.612 (a) amended
2521
3280.612 Regulation at 86 FR 2521 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.705 (c)(1), (k), (l)(7), and (l)(8)(i) revised; (j) amended; (l)(8)(iii) added
2522
3280.705 Regulation at 86 FR 2522 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.708 (a)(1) introductory text revised
2522
3280.708 Regulation at 86 FR 2522 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.709 (a) revised
2523
3280.709 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.710 (d) revised
2523
3280.710 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.802 (a)(4) through (41) redesignated as (a)(5) through (42); new (a)(4) added
2523
3280.802 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.807 (g) added
2523
3280.807 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.810 (b) revised
2523
3280.810 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.902 (b) amended
2523
3280.902 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.903 Revised
2523
3280.903 Regulation at 86 FR 2523 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.904 (a), (b)(1) through (6) and (8) through (10) revised
2524
3280.904 Regulation at 86 FR 2524 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3280.1001—3280.1006 (Subpart K) Added
2525
3280.1001—3280.1006 (Subpart K) Regulation at 86 FR 2525 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3282 Authority citation revised
2525
3282.7 (d) through (nn) redesignated as (e) through (oo); new (d) added
2525
3282.7 Regulation at 86 FR 2525 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3282.8 (j) revised
2526
3282.8 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3282.10 Revised; eff. 4-15-21
14373
3282.14 (a) introductory text revised
2526
3282.14 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3282.601 (c) added
2526
3282.601 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3282.602 (a)(2) revised
2526
3282.602 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3285.5 Amended
2526
3285.5 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
3285.903 (c) revised
2526
3285.903 Regulation at 86 FR 2526 eff. date delayed to 7-12-21
13645
2022
24 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3282.10 Revised
24421
2023
24 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3282.10 Revised
9749
2024
24 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3280.2 Amended
75737
3280.4 Revised
75737
3280.5 Introductory text amended
75743
3280.102 Revised
75744
3280.103 (b) introductory text, (1), (3), (c)(2), (3), and (d) revised; (e) added
75744
3280.105 (a) introductory text, (2)(i), and (b)(2) revised
75744
3280.109 (a) revised
75744
3280.112 Revised
75744
3280.113 (d) revised
75745
3280.115 Added
75745
3280.203 (c)(1)(ii) revised
75745
3280.204 (a) amended; (f) added
75745
3280.209 (a) revised
75745
3280.211 (a) revised
75745
3280.214 Added
75745
3280.215 Added
75745
3280.216 Added
75745
3280.303 (b) revised
75748
3280.304 Revised
75748
3280.305 (j)(1) and (k)(2) revised
75749
3280.307 (f) added
75749
3280.309 Added
75749
3280.403 (b)(1), (2) introductory text, (d)(1), and (e) revised
75750
3280.404 (b) and (e) revised
75750
3280.405 (b), (c), and (e) revised
75750
3280.504 (a)(1) and (c) revised
75750
3280.510 Introductory text amended
75750
3280.511 (a) introductory text amended; (b) revised
75751
3280.603 (b)(4)(ii) revised
75751
3280.604 Revised
75751
3280.607 (b)(3) and (c)(6)(iv) revised
75752
3280.609 (a)(2) revised
75753
3280.611 (c)(5) revised
75753
3280.702 Amended
75753
3280.703 Revised
75753
3280.705 (b)(1), (3), (5), (c)(2), (e), (f), (j), (l)(1), (2)(ii), and (3) revised
75754
3280.706 (b)(1), (3), and (d) revised
75754
3280.707 (a) introductory text, (d)(2), and (f) introductory text revised
75754
3280.709 (a) introductory text, (g) introductory text, and (h) revised
75755
3280.711 Revised
75755
3280.714 (a)(1) and (2) revised
75755
3280.715 (a)(1), (c), and (e) introductory text revised
75755
3280.801 (a) and (b) revised
75756
3280.802 (a)(21) revised
75756
3280.803 (a), (k)(1), and (3) revised
75756
3280.804 (a), (c), (g) introductory text, and (k) revised; (m) added
75756
3280.805 (a)(1) and (3)(iv) revised
75757
3280.806 (a)(2) and (d)(8) revised
75757
3280.807 (c) revised
75757
3280.808 (a), (k), (l), and (p) revised
75757
3280.810 (b)(3) revised
75757
3280.811 (b) introductory text revised
75757
3280.1003 (a)(1) revised
75757
3282.7 (t) and (v) revised; (oo) removed
75758
3282.8 (l) removed
75758
3282.10 Revised
13617
3282.552 Revised
75758
3285.5 Amended
75758
3285.503 (b) revised
75758
3285.506 Added
75758
3285.603 (d)(3) and (e)(1) revised
75758
3285.801 (f)(2) revised
75758
3286.103 Revised
75758
3286.205 (d) revised
75759
3286.207 (d) revised
75759
3286.209 (b)(8)(vi) revised
75759
3286.409 (b) revised
75759
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
24 CFR
90 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XX
3280.2 Regulation at 89 FR 75737 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.4 Regulation at 89 FR 75737 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.5 Regulation at 89 FR 75743 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.102 Regulation at 89 FR 75744 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.103 Regulation at 89 FR 75744 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.105 Regulation at 89 FR 75744 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.109 Regulation at 89 FR 75744 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.112 Regulation at 89 FR 75744 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.113 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.115 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.203 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.204 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.209 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.211 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.214 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.215 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.216 Regulation at 89 FR 75745 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.303 Regulation at 89 FR 75748 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.304 Regulation at 89 FR 75748 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.305 Regulation at 89 FR 75748 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.307 Regulation at 89 FR 75748 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.309 Regulation at 89 FR 75748 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.403 Regulation at 89 FR 75750 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.404 Regulation at 89 FR 75750 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.405 Regulation at 89 FR 75750 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.504 Regulation at 89 FR 75750 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.510 Regulation at 89 FR 75750 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.511 Regulation at 89 FR 75751 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.603 Regulation at 89 FR 75751 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.604 Regulation at 89 FR 75751 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.607 Regulation at 89 FR 75752 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.609 Regulation at 89 FR 75753 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.611 Regulation at 89 FR 75753 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.702 Regulation at 89 FR 75753 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.703 Regulation at 89 FR 75753 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.705 Regulation at 89 FR 75754 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.706 Regulation at 89 FR 75754 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.707 Regulation at 89 FR 75754 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.709 Regulation at 89 FR 75755 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.711 Regulation at 89 FR 75755 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.714 Regulation at 89 FR 75755 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.715 Regulation at 89 FR 75755 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.801 Regulation at 89 FR 75756 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.802 Regulation at 89 FR 75756 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.803 Regulation at 89 FR 75756 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.804 Regulation at 89 FR 75756 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.805 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.806 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.807 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.808 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.810 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.811 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3280.1003 Regulation at 89 FR 75757 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3282.7 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3282.8 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3282.552 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3285.5 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3285.503 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3285.506 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3285.603 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3285.801 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3286.103 Regulation at 89 FR 75758 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3286.205 Regulation at 89 FR 75759 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3286.207 Regulation at 89 FR 75759 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3286.209 Regulation at 89 FR 75759 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
3286.409 Regulation at 89 FR 75759 eff. date delayed to 9-15-25
10593
○
