If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency determines that the property should be made available for replacement housing under section 218, it must transfer the property to the designated State agency on such terms and conditions as will protect the United States' interests, including the payment or the
agreement to pay to the United States all amounts received by the State agency from any sale, lease, or other disposition of the property for such housing. The sale, lease, or other disposition of the property by the State agency must be at the fair market value as approved by the disposal agency, unless a compelling justification is offered for disposal of the property at less than fair market value. Disposal of the property at less than fair market value must also be approved by the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.740
Does the State agency have any responsibilities in helping to accomplish the transfer of the property?
Yes, the State agency is required to bear the costs of any out-of-pocket expenses necessary to accomplish the transfer, such as costs of surveys, fencing, or security of the remaining property.
§ 102-75.745
What happens if the property transfer request is not approved by the disposal agency?
If the request is not approved, the disposal agency must notify the Federal agency requesting the transfer. The disposal agency must furnish a copy of the notice of disapproval to the landholding agency.

# Property for Correctional Facility, Law Enforcement, or Emergency Management Response Purposes
§ 102-75.750
Who is eligible to receive surplus real and related personal property for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
Under 40 U.S.C. 553, the head of the disposal agency or designee may, in his or her discretion, convey, without monetary consideration, to any State, or to those governmental bodies named in the section; or to any political subdivision or instrumentality, surplus real and related personal property for—
(a) Correctional facility purposes, if the Attorney General has determined that the property is required for such purposes and has approved an appropriate program or project for the care or rehabilitation of criminal offenders;
(b) Law enforcement purposes, if the Attorney General has determined that the property is required for such purposes; or
(c) Emergency management response purposes, including fire and rescue services, if the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has determined that the property is required for such purposes.
§ 102-75.755
Which Federal agencies must the disposal agency notify concerning the availability of surplus properties for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
The disposal agency must provide prompt notification to the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), Department of Justice (DOJ), and FEMA that surplus property is available. The disposal agency's notice or notification must include a copy of the landholding agency's Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), with accompanying schedules.
§ 102-75.760
Who must the Office of Justice Programs (OJP) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) notify that surplus real property is available for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
OJP or FEMA must send notices of availability to the appropriate State and local public agencies. The notices must state that OJP or FEMA, as appropriate, must coordinate and approve any planning involved in developing a comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response use. The notice must also state that public agencies may obtain application forms and preparation instructions from OJP or FEMA.
§ 102-75.765
What does the term “law enforcement” mean?
The OJP defines “law enforcement” as “any activity involving the control
or reduction of crime and juvenile delinquency, or enforcement of the criminal law, including investigative activities such as laboratory functions as well as training.”
§ 102-75.770
Is the disposal agency required to approve a determination by the Department of Justice (DOJ) that identifies surplus property for correctional facility use or for law enforcement use?
Yes, the disposal agency must approve a determination, under § 102-75.795, by DOJ that identifies surplus property required for correctional facility use or for law enforcement use before an eligible public agency can obtain such property for correctional facility or law enforcement use.
§ 102-75.775
Is the disposal agency required to approve a determination by FEMA that identifies surplus property for emergency management response use?
Yes, the disposal agency must approve a determination, under § 102-75.795, by FEMA that identifies surplus property required for emergency management response use before an eligible public agency can obtain such property for emergency management response use.
§ 102-75.780
When must DOJ or FEMA notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
OJP or FEMA must notify the disposal agency within 30 calendar days after the date of the surplus notice, if there is an eligible applicant interested in acquiring the property. After that 30-calendar day period expires, OJP or FEMA then has another 30 days to review and approve an appropriate program and notify the disposal agency of the need for the property. If no application is approved, then OJP or FEMA must notify the disposal agency that there is no requirement for the property within the 30-calendar day period allotted for review and approval.
§ 102-75.785
What specifically must DOJ or FEMA address in the assignment request or recommendation that is submitted to the disposal agency?
Any determination that DOJ or FEMA submits to the disposal agency must provide complete information concerning the correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response use, including—
(a) Identification of the property;
(b) Certification that the property is required for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response use;
(c) A copy of the approved application that defines the proposed plan of use; and
(d) The environmental impact of the proposed correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response use.
§ 102-75.790
What responsibilities do landholding agencies and disposal agencies have concerning properties to be used for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
Both landholding and disposal agencies must cooperate to the fullest extent possible with Federal and State agency representatives in their inspection of such property and in furnishing information relating to the property.
§ 102-75.795
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment request by DOJ or FEMA?
If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency approves the assignment request by DOJ or FEMA, the disposal agency must convey the property to the appropriate grantee. The disposal agency must proceed with other disposal action if it does not approve the assignment request, if DOJ or FEMA does not submit an assignment request, or if the disposal agency does not receive the determination within the 30 calendar days specified in § 102-75.780. The disposal agency must notify OJP or FEMA 15 days prior to any announcement of a determination to either approve or disapprove an application for correctional, law enforcement, or
emergency management response purposes and must furnish to OJP or FEMA a copy of the conveyance documents.
§ 102-75.800
What information must be included in the deed of conveyance?
The deed of conveyance of any surplus real property transferred under the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 553 must provide that all property be used and maintained for the purpose for which it was conveyed in perpetuity. If the property ceases to be used or maintained for that purpose, all or any portion of the property must, at the option of the United States, revert to the United States in its existing condition. The deed of conveyance may contain additional terms, reservations, restrictions, and conditions the Administrator of General Services determines to be necessary to safeguard the United States' interests.
§ 102-75.805
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of the property used for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
The Administrator of General Services is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposals of property to be used for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes. GSA is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any disposal instrument; granting releases; and any action necessary for recapturing the property following the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 553(e).
§ 102-75.810
What responsibilities do OJP or FEMA have if they discover any information indicating a change in use of a transferred property?
Upon discovery of any information indicating a change in use, OJP or FEMA must—
(a) Notify GSA; and
(b) Upon request, make a redetermination of continued appropriateness of the use of a transferred property.
§ 102-75.815
What happens if property conveyed for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes is found to be in noncompliance with the terms of the conveyance documents?
OJP or FEMA must, prior to the repossession, provide the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office with an accurate description of the real and related personal property involved. OJP or FEMA must use the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), and the appropriate schedules for this purpose. After receiving a statement from OJP or FEMA that the title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with OJP or FEMA, determines that the property should be revested, OJP or FEMA must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period following any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Property for Port Facility Use
§ 102-75.820
Which Federal agency is eligible to receive surplus real and related personal property for the development or operation of a port facility?
Under 40 U.S.C. 554, the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of the Department of Defense (in the case of property located at a military installation closed or realigned pursuant to a base closure law), or their designee, may assign to the Secretary of the Department of Transportation (DOT) for conveyance, without monetary consideration, to any State, or to governmental bodies, any political subdivision, municipality, or instrumentality, surplus real and related personal property, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment situated on the property, that DOT recommends as
being needed for the development or operation of a port facility.
§ 102-75.825
Who must the disposal agency notify when surplus real and related personal property is available for port facility use?
The disposal agency must notify established State, regional or metropolitan clearinghouses and eligible public agencies that surplus real property is available for the development or operation of a port facility. The disposal agency must transmit a copy of the notice to DOT and a copy of the landholding agency's Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118 and supporting schedules).
§ 102-75.830
What does the surplus notice contain?
Surplus notices to eligible public agencies must state—
(a) That public agencies must coordinate any planning involved in the development of the comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement of property, with DOT, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Commerce;
(b) That any party interested in acquiring the property for use as a port facility must contact the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, for the application and instructions;
(c) That the disposal agency must approve a recommendation from DOT before it can assign the property to DOT (see § 102-75.905); and
(d) That any subsequent conveyance is subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency as stipulated under 40 U.S.C. 554 and referenced in § 102-75.865.
§ 102-75.835
When must DOT notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
DOT must notify the disposal agency within 30 calendar days after the date of the surplus notice if there is an eligible applicant interested in acquiring the property. After that 30-calendar day period expires, DOT then has another 30 calendar days to review and approve applications and notify the disposal agency of the need for the property. If no application is approved, then DOT must notify the disposal agency that there is no requirement for the property within the same 30-calendar day period allotted for review and approval.
§ 102-75.840
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for and an application to acquire a port facility property?
Whenever an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for a port facility requirement, the disposal agency must transmit two copies of the plan to DOT. DOT must either submit to the disposal agency, within 30 calendar days after the date the plan is transmitted, a recommendation for assignment of the property to DOT, or inform the disposal agency, within the 30-calendar day period, that a recommendation will not be made for assignment of the property to DOT.
§ 102-75.845
What must DOT address in the assignment recommendation submitted to the disposal agency?
Any assignment recommendation that DOT submits to the disposal agency must provide complete information concerning the contemplated port facility use, including—
(a) An identification of the property;
(b) An identification of the applicant;
(c) A copy of the approved application, which defines the proposed plan of use of the property;
(d) A statement that DOT's determination (that the property is located in an area of serious economic disruption) was made in consultation with the Secretary of Labor;
(e) A statement that DOT approved the economic development plan, associated with the plan of use of the property, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce; and
(f) A copy of the explanatory statement, required under 40 U.S.C. 554(c)(2)(C).
§ 102-75.850
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used in the development or operation of a port facility?
Landholding agencies must cooperate to the fullest extent possible with DOT representatives and the Secretary of
Commerce in their inspection of such property, and with the Secretary of Labor in affirming that the property is in an area of serious economic disruption, and in furnishing any information relating to such property.
§ 102-75.855
What happens if DOT does not submit an assignment recommendation?
If DOT does not submit an assignment recommendation or if it is not received within 30 calendar days, the disposal agency must proceed with other disposal action.
§ 102-75.860
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment recommendation from DOT?
If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency approves the assignment recommendation from DOT, the disposal agency must assign the property by letter or other document to DOT. If the disposal agency disapproves the recommendation, the disposal agency must likewise notify DOT. The disposal agency must furnish to the landholding agency a copy of the assignment, unless the landholding agency is also the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.865
What responsibilities does DOT have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
After receiving the assignment letter from the disposal agency, DOT must provide the disposal agency with a Notice of Proposed Transfer within 30 calendar days after the date of the assignment letter. If the disposal agency approves the proposed transfer within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the Notice of Proposed Transfer, DOT may prepare the conveyance documents and proceed with the conveyance. DOT must take all necessary actions to accomplish the conveyance within 15 calendar days after the expiration of the 30-calendar day period provided for the disposal agency to consider the notice. DOT must furnish the disposal agency two conformed copies of the instruments conveying property and all related documents containing restrictions or conditions regulating the future use, maintenance, or transfer of the property.
§ 102-75.870
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the port facility conveyance?
DOT is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of conveyance, including reforming, correcting, or amending any instrument of conveyance; granting releases; and taking any necessary actions to recapture the property following the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 554(f). Any of these actions are subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency. DOT must notify the head of the disposal agency of its intent to take any proposed action, identify the property affected, and describe in detail the proposed action, including the reasons for the proposed action.
§ 102-75.875
What happens in the case of repossession by the United States under a reversion of title for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of conveyance?
In each case of a repossession by the United States, DOT must, at or prior to reversion of title, provide the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office, with a Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) and accompanying schedules. After receiving a statement from DOT that title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with DOT, determines that the property should be revested, DOT must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period following the notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Negotiated Sales
§ 102-75.880
When may Executive agencies conduct negotiated sales?
Executive agencies may conduct negotiated sales only when—
(a) The estimated fair market value of the property does not exceed $15,000;
(b) Bid prices after advertising are unreasonable (for all or part of the property) or were not independently arrived at in open competition;
(c) The character or condition of the property or unusual circumstances make it impractical to advertise for competitive bids and the fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtainable by negotiation;
(d) The disposals will be to States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, possessions, political subdivisions, or tax-supported agencies therein, and the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtainable by negotiation. Negotiated sales to public bodies can only be conducted if a public benefit, which would not be realized from a competitive sale, will result from the negotiated sale; or
(e) Negotiation is otherwise authorized by Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code or other law, such as disposals of power transmission lines for public or cooperative power projects.
§ 102-75.885
What are the disposal agency's responsibilities concerning negotiated sales?
The disposal agency must—
(a) Obtain such competition as is feasible in all negotiations of disposals and contracts for disposal of surplus property; and
(b) Prepare and transmit an explanatory statement if the fair market value of the property exceeds $100,000, identifying the circumstances of each disposal by negotiation for any real property specified in 40 U.S.C. 545(e), to the appropriate committees of the Congress in advance of such disposal.
§ 102-75.890
What clause must be in the offer to purchase and conveyance documents for negotiated sales to public agencies?
Disposal agencies must include in the offer to purchase and conveyance documents an excess profits clause, which usually runs for 3 years, to eliminate the potential for windfall profits to public agencies. This clause states that, if the purchaser should sell or enter into agreements to sell the property within 3 years from the date of title transfer by the Federal Government, all proceeds in excess of the purchaser's costs will be remitted to the Federal Government.
§ 102-75.895
What wording must generally be in the excess profits clause that is required in the offer to purchase and in the conveyance document?
The wording of the excess profits clause should generally be as follows:
Excess Profits Covenant for Negotiated Sales to Public Bodies
(a) This covenant shall run with the land for a period of 3 years from the date of conveyance. With respect to the property described in this deed, if at any time within a 3-year period from the date of transfer of title by the Grantor, the Grantee, or its successors or assigns, shall sell or enter into agreements to sell the property, either in a single transaction or in a series of transactions, it is covenanted and agreed that all proceeds received or to be received in excess of the Grantee's or a subsequent seller's actual allowable costs will be remitted to the Grantor. In the event of a sale of less than the entire property, actual allowable costs will be apportioned to the property based on a fair and reasonable determination by the Grantor.
(b) For purposes of this covenant, the Grantee's or a subsequent seller's allowable costs shall include the following:
(1) The purchase price of the real property.
(2) The direct costs actually incurred and paid for improvements that serve only the property, including road construction, storm and sanitary sewer construction, other public facilities or utility construction, building rehabilitation and demolition, landscaping, grading, and other site or public improvements.
(3) The direct costs actually incurred and paid for design and engineering services with respect to the improvements described in (b)(2) of this section.
(4) The finance charges actually incurred and paid in conjunction with loans obtained to meet any of the allowable costs enumerated above.
(c) None of the allowable costs described in paragraph (b) of this section will be deductible if defrayed by Federal grants or if used as matching funds to secure Federal grants.
(d) To verify compliance with the terms and conditions of this covenant, the Grantee, or its successors or assigns, shall submit an annual report for each of the subsequent 3 years to the Grantor on the anniversary date of this deed. Each report will identify the property involved in this transaction and
will contain such of the following items of information as are applicable at the time of submission:
(1) A statement indicating whether or not a resale has been made.
(2) A description of each portion of the property that has been resold.
(3) The sale price of each such resold portion.
(4) The identity of each purchaser.
(5) The proposed land use.
(6) An enumeration of any allowable costs incurred and paid that would offset any realized profit.
(e) The Grantor may monitor the property and inspect records related thereto to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of this covenant and may take any actions that it deems reasonable and prudent to recover any excess profits realized through the resale of the property.
§ 102-75.900
What is a negotiated sale for economic development purposes?
A negotiated sale for economic development purposes means that the public body purchasing the property will develop or make substantial improvements to the property with the intention of reselling or leasing the property in parcels to users to advance the community's economic benefit. This type of negotiated sale is acceptable where the expected public benefits to the community are greater than the anticipated proceeds derived from a competitive public sale.

# Explanatory Statements for Negotiated Sales
§ 102-75.905
When must the disposal agency prepare an explanatory statement?
The disposal agency must prepare an explanatory statement of the circumstances of each of the following proposed disposals by negotiation:
(a) Any real property that has an estimated fair market value in excess of $100,000, except that any real property disposed of by lease or exchange is subject only to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) Any real property disposed of by lease for a term of 5 years or less, if the estimated fair annual rent is in excess of $100,000 for any of such years.
(c) Any real property disposed of by lease for a term of more than 5 years, if the total estimated rent over the term of the lease is in excess of $100,000.
(d) Any real property or real and related personal property disposed of by exchange, regardless of value, or any property disposed in which any part of the consideration is real property.
§ 102-75.910
Are there any exceptions to this policy of preparing explanatory statements?
Yes, the disposal agency is not required to prepare an explanatory statement for property authorized to be disposed of without advertising by any provision of law other than 40 U.S.C. 545.
§ 102-75.915
Do disposal agencies need to retain a copy of the explanatory statement?
Yes, disposal agencies must retain a copy of the explanatory statement in their files.
§ 102-75.920
Where is the explanatory statement sent?
Disposal agencies must submit each explanatory statement to the Administrator of General Services for review and transmittal by letter from the Administrator of General Services to the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and the House Committee on Government Reform and any other appropriate committees of the Senate and House of Representatives. Disposal agencies must include in the submission to the Administrator of General Services any supporting data that may be relevant and necessary for evaluating the proposed action.
§ 102-75.925
Is GSA required to furnish the disposal agency with the explanatory statement's transmittal letter sent to Congress?
Yes, GSA must furnish copies of its transmittal letters to the committees of the Congress (see § 102-75.920) to the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.930
What happens if there is no objection by an appropriate committee or subcommittee of Congress concerning the proposed negotiated sale?
If there is no objection, the disposal agency may consummate the sale on or
after 35 days from the date the Administrator of General Services transmitted the explanatory statement to the committees. If there is an objection, the disposal agency must resolve objections with the appropriate Congressional committee or subcommittee before consummating the sale.

# Public Sales
§ 102-75.935
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning public sales?
Disposal agencies must make available by competitive public sale any surplus property that is not disposed of by public benefit discount conveyance or by negotiated sale. Awards must be made to the responsible bidder whose bid will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.

# Disposing of Easements
§ 102-75.936
When can an agency dispose of an easement?
When the use, occupancy or control of an easement is no longer needed, agencies may release the easement to the owner of the land subject to the easement (servient estate).
§ 102-75.937
Can an easement be released or disposed of at no cost?
Yes. However, agencies must consider the Government's cost of acquiring the easement and other factors when determining if the easement will be disposed of with or without monetary or other consideration. If the easement was acquired at substantial consideration, agencies must—
(a) Determine the easement's fair market value (estimate the fair market value of the fee land without the easement and with the easement then compute the difference or compute the damage the easement caused to the fee land); and
(b) Negotiate the highest obtainable price with the owner of the servient estate to release the easement.
§ 102-75.938
May the easement and the land that benefited from the easement (dominant estate) be disposed of separately?
Yes. If the easement is no longer needed in connection with the dominant estate, it may be disposed of separately to the owner of the servient estate. However, if the dominant estate is also surplus, the easement should be disposed of with the dominant estate.

# Granting Easements
§ 102-75.939
When can agencies grant easements?
Agencies may grant easements in, on, or over Government-owned real property upon determining that the easement will not adversely impact the Government's interests.
§ 102-75.940
Can agencies grant easements at no cost?
Yes. Easements may be granted with or without monetary or other consideration, including any interest in real property.
§ 102-75.941
Does an agency retain responsibility for the easement?
Agencies may relinquish legislative jurisdiction as deemed necessary and desirable to the State where the real property containing the easement is located.
§ 102-75.942
What must agencies consider when granting easements?
Agencies must—
(a) Determine the easement's fair market value; and
(b) Determine the remaining property's reduced or enhanced value because of the easement.
§ 102-75.943
What happens if granting an easement will reduce the value of the property?
If the easement will reduce the property's value, agencies must grant the easement for the amount by which the property's fair market value is decreased unless the agency determines that the Government's best interests are served by granting the easement at either reduced or without monetary or other consideration.

# Non-Federal Interim Use of Surplus Property
§ 102-75.944
Can landholding agencies outlease surplus real property for non-Federal interim use?
Yes, landholding agencies who possess independent authority to outlease property may allow organizations to use surplus real property awaiting disposal using either a lease or permit, only when—
(a) The lease or permit does not exceed one year and is revocable with not more than a 30-day notice by the disposal agency;
(b) The use and occupancy will not interfere with, delay, or impede the disposal of the property; and
(c) The agency executing the agreement is responsible for the servicing of such property.

# Subpart D—Management of Excess and Surplus Real Property
§ 102-75.945
What is GSA's policy concerning the physical care, handling, protection, and maintenance of excess and surplus real property and related personal property?
GSA's policy is to—
(a) Manage excess and surplus real property, including related personal property, by providing only those minimum services necessary to preserve the Government's interest and realizable value of the property considered;
(b) Place excess and surplus real property in productive use through interim utilization, provided, that such temporary use and occupancy do not interfere with, delay, or impede its transfer to a Federal agency or disposal; and
(c) Render safe or destroy aspects of excess and surplus real property that are dangerous to the public health or safety.

# Taxes and Other Obligations
§ 102-75.950
Who has the responsibility for paying property-related obligations pending transfer or disposal of the property?
Except as otherwise provided in § 102-75.230, the landholding agency is still responsible for any and all operational costs and expenses or other property-related obligations pending transfer or disposal of the property.

# Decontamination
§ 102-75.955
Who is responsible for decontaminating excess and surplus real property?
The landholding agency is responsible for all expenses to the Government and for the supervision of the decontamination of excess and surplus real property that has been contaminated with hazardous materials of any sort. Extreme care must be exercised in the decontamination, management, and disposal of contaminated property in order to prevent such properties from becoming a hazard to the general public. The landholding agency must inform the disposal agency of any and all hazards involved relative to such property to protect the general public from hazards and to limit the Government's liability resulting from disposal or mishandling of hazardous materials.

# Improvements or Alterations
§ 102-75.960
May landholding agencies make improvements or alterations to excess or surplus property in those cases where disposal is otherwise not feasible?
Yes, landholding agencies may make improvements or alterations that involve rehabilitation, reconditioning, conversion, completion, additions, and replacements in excess or surplus structures, utilities, installations, and land improvements, in those cases where disposal cannot be accomplished without such improvements or alterations. However, agencies must not enter into commitments concerning improvements or alterations without GSA's prior approval.

# Protection and Maintenance
§ 102-75.965
Who must perform the protection and maintenance of excess and surplus real property pending transfer to another Federal agency or disposal?
The landholding agency remains responsible and accountable for excess and surplus real property, including related personal property, and must perform the protection and maintenance of such property pending transfer to
another Federal agency or disposal. Guidelines for protection and maintenance of excess and surplus real property are in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal. The landholding agency is responsible for complying with the requirements of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan and initiating or cooperating with others in the actions prescribed for the prevention, containment, or remedy of hazardous conditions.
§ 102-75.970
How long is the landholding agency responsible for the expense of protection and maintenance of excess and surplus real property pending its transfer or disposal?
Generally, the landholding agency is responsible for the cost of protection and maintenance of excess or surplus property until the property is transferred or disposed, but not more than 15 months. However, the landholding agency is responsible for providing and funding protection and maintenance during any delay beyond that 15 month period, if the landholding agency—
(a) Requests deferral of the disposal beyond the 15 month period;
(b) Continues to occupy the property beyond the 15 month period to the detriment of orderly disposal; or
(c) Otherwise takes actions that result in a delay in the disposition beyond the 15 months.
§ 102-75.975
What happens if the property is not conveyed or disposed of during this time frame?
If the property is not transferred to a Federal agency or disposed of during the 15-month period mentioned in § 102-75.970, then the disposal agency must pay or reimburse the landholding agency for protection and maintenance expenses incurred from the expiration date of said time period to final disposal, unless—
(a) There is no written agreement between the landholding agency and the disposal agency specifying the maximum amount of protection and maintenance expenses for which the disposal agency is responsible;
(b) The disposal agency's appropriation, as authorized by Congress, does not contain a provision to allow for payment and/or reimbursement of protection and maintenance expenses; or
(c) The delay is caused by an Executive agency's request for an exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement specified in § 102-75.205. In this latter case, the requesting agency becomes responsible for protection and maintenance expenses incurred because of the delay.
§ 102-75.980
Who is responsible for protection and maintenance expenses if there is no written agreement or no Congressional appropriation to the disposal agency?
If there is no written agreement (between the landholding agency and the disposal agency) or no Congressional appropriation to the disposal agency, the landholding agency is responsible for all protection and maintenance expenses, without any right of contribution or reimbursement from the disposal agency.

# Assistance in Disposition
§ 102-75.985
Is the landholding agency required to assist the disposal agency in the disposition process?
Yes, the landholding agency must cooperate with the disposal agency in showing the property to prospective transferees or purchasers. Unless extraordinary expenses are incurred in showing the property, the landholding agency must absorb the entire cost of such actions.

# Subpart E—Abandonment, Destruction, or Donation to Public Bodies
§ 102-75.990
May Federal agencies abandon, destroy, or donate to public bodies real property?
Yes, subject to the restrictions in this subpart, any Federal agency having control of real property that has no commercial value or for which the estimated cost of continued care and handling exceeds the estimated proceeds from its sale, may—
(a) Abandon or destroy Government-owned improvements and related personal property located on privately-owned land;
(b) Destroy Government-owned improvements and related personal property located on Government-owned land (abandonment of such property is not authorized); or
(c) Donate to public bodies any Government-owned real property (land and/or improvements and related personal property), or interests therein.

# Dangerous Property
§ 102-75.995
May Federal agencies dispose of dangerous property?
No, property that is dangerous to public health or safety must be made harmless or have adequate safeguards in place before it can be abandoned, destroyed, or donated to public bodies.

# Determinations
§ 102-75.1000
How is the decision made to abandon, destroy, or donate property?
No property shall be abandoned, destroyed, or donated by a Federal agency under § 102-75.990, unless a duly authorized official of that agency determines, in writing, that—
(a) The property has no commercial value; or
(b) The estimated cost of its continued care and handling exceeds the estimated proceeds from its sale.
§ 102-75.1005
Who can make the determination within the Federal agency on whether a property can be abandoned, destroyed, or donated?
Only a duly authorized official of that agency not directly accountable for the subject property can make the determination.
§ 102-75.1010
When is a reviewing authority required to approve the determination concerning a property that is to be abandoned, destroyed, or donated?
A reviewing authority must approve determinations made under § 102-75.1000 before any such disposal, whenever all the property proposed to be disposed of by a Federal agency has a current estimated fair market value of more than $50,000.

# Restrictions
§ 102-75.1015
Are there any restrictions on Federal agencies concerning property donations to public bodies?
Yes, Federal agencies must obtain prior concurrence of GSA before donating to public bodies—
(a) Improvements on land or related personal property having a current estimated fair market value in excess of $250,000; and
(b) Land, regardless of cost.

# Disposal Costs
§ 102-75.1020
Are public bodies ever required to pay the disposal costs associated with donated property?
Yes, any public body receiving donated improvements on land or related personal property must pay the disposal costs associated with the donation, such as dismantling, removal, and the cleaning up of the premises.

# Abandonment and Destruction
§ 102-75.1025
When can a Federal agency abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property in lieu of donating it to a public body?
A Federal agency may not abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property unless a duly authorized official of that agency finds, in writing, that donating the property is not feasible. This written finding is in addition to the determination prescribed in §§ 102-75.1000, 102-75.1005, and 102-75.1010. If donating the property becomes feasible at any time prior to actually abandoning or destroying the property, the Federal agency must donate it.
§ 102-75.1030
May Federal agencies abandon or destroy property in any manner they decide?
No, Federal agencies may not abandon or destroy property in a manner that is detrimental or dangerous to public health or safety or that will infringe on the rights of other persons.
§ 102-75.1035
Are there any restrictions on Federal agencies concerning the abandonment or destruction of improvements on land or related personal property?
Yes, GSA must concur in an agency's abandonment or destruction of improvements on land or related personal property prior to abandoning or destroying such improvements on land or related personal property—
(a) That are of permanent type construction; or
(b) The retention of which would enhance the value of the underlying land, if it were to be made available for sale or lease.
§ 102-75.1040
May Federal agencies abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property before public notice is given of such proposed abandonment or destruction?
Except as provided in § 102-75.1045, a Federal agency must not abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property until after it has given public notice of the proposed abandonment or destruction. This notice must be given in the area in which the property is located, must contain a general description of the property to be abandoned or destroyed, and must include an offering of the property for sale. A copy of the notice must be given to the GSA regional property disposal office for the region in which the property is located.
§ 102-75.1045
Are there exceptions to the policy that requires public notice be given before Federal agencies abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property?
Yes, property can be abandoned or destroyed without public notice if—
(a) Its value is so low or the cost of its care and handling so great that retaining the property to post public notice is clearly not economical;
(b) Health, safety, or security considerations require its immediate abandonment or destruction; or
(c) The assigned mission of the agency might be jeopardized by the delay, and a duly authorized Federal agency official finds in writing, with respect to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and a reviewing authority approves this finding. The finding must be in addition to the determinations prescribed in §§ 102-75.1000, 102-75.1005, 102-75.1010, and 102-75.1025.
§ 102-75.1050
Is there any property for which this subpart does not apply?
Yes, this subpart does not apply to surplus property assigned for disposal to educational or public health institutions pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 550(c) or (d).

# Subpart F—Delegations

# Delegation to the Department of Defense (DoD)
§ 102-75.1055
What is the policy governing delegations of real property disposal authority to the Secretary of Defense?
GSA delegates to the Secretary of Defense the authority to determine that Federal agencies do not need Department of Defense controlled excess real property and related personal property having a total estimated fair market value, including all the component units of the property, of less than $50,000; and to dispose of the property by means deemed most advantageous to the United States.
§ 102-75.1060
What must the Secretary of Defense do before determining that DoD-controlled excess real property and related personal property is not required for the needs of any Federal agency and prior to disposal?
The Secretary must conduct a Federal screening to determine that there is no further Federal need or requirement for the property.
§ 102-75.1065
When using a delegation of real property disposal authority under this subpart, is DoD required to report excess property to GSA?
No, although the authority in this delegation must be used following the provisions of Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code and its implementing regulations.
§ 102-75.1070
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of Defense be redelegated?
Yes, the Secretary of Defense may redelegate the authority delegated in § 102-75.1055 to any officer or employee of the Department of Defense.

# Delegation to the Department of Agriculture (USDA)
§ 102-75.1075
What is the policy governing delegations of real property disposal authority to the Secretary of Agriculture?
GSA delegates authority to the Secretary of Agriculture to determine that Federal agencies do not need USDA-controlled excess real property and related personal property having a total estimated fair market value, including all the component units of the property, of less than $50,000; and to dispose of the property by means deemed most advantageous to the United States.
§ 102-75.1080
What must the Secretary of Agriculture do before determining that USDA-controlled excess real property and related personal property is not required for the needs of any Federal agency and prior to disposal?
The Secretary must conduct a Federal screening to determine that there is no further Federal need or requirement for the property.
§ 102-75.1085
When using a delegation of real property disposal authority under this subpart, is USDA required to report excess property to GSA?
No, although the authority in this delegation must be used following the provisions of Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code and its implementing regulations.
§ 102-75.1090
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of Agriculture be redelegated?
Yes, the Secretary of Agriculture may redelegate authority delegated in § 102-75.1075 to any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture.

# Delegation to the Department of the Interior
§ 102-75.1095
What is the policy governing delegations of authority to the Secretary of the Interior?
GSA delegates authority to the Secretary of the Interior to—
(a) Maintain custody, control, and accountability for mineral resources in, on, or under Federal real property that the Administrator or his designee occasionally designates as currently utilized, excess, or surplus to the Government's needs;
(b) Dispose of mineral resources by lease and to administer those leases that are made; and
(c) Determine that Federal agencies do not need Department of the Interior controlled excess real property and related personal property with an estimated fair market value, including all components of the property, of less than $50,000; and to dispose of the property by means most advantageous to the United States.
§ 102-75.1100
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior be redelegated?
Yes, the Secretary of the Interior may redelegate this authority to any officer, official, or employee of the Department of the Interior.
§ 102-75.1105
What other responsibilities does the Secretary of the Interior have under this delegation of authority?
Under this authority, the Secretary of the Interior is responsible for—
(a) Maintaining proper inventory records, as head of the landholding agency;
(b) Monitoring the minerals as necessary, as head of the landholding agency, to prevent unauthorized mining or removal of the minerals;
(c) Securing any appraisals deemed necessary by the Secretary;
(d) Coordinating with all surface landowners, Federal or otherwise, to prevent unnecessary interference with the surface use;
(e) Restoring damaged or disturbed lands after removal of the mineral deposits;
(f) Notifying the Administrator of General Services when the disposal of
all marketable mineral deposits is complete;
(g) Complying with the applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
); and the implementing regulations issued by the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR part 1500); section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470f); and the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
) and the Department of Commerce implementing regulations (15 CFR parts 923 and 930);
(h) Forwarding promptly to the Administrator of General Services copies of any agreements executed under this authority; and
(i) Providing the Administrator of General Services with an annual accounting of the proceeds received from leases executed under this authority.

# Native American-Related Delegations
§ 102-75.1110
What is the policy governing delegations of authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education for property used in the administration of any Native American-related functions?
GSA delegates authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education to transfer and to retransfer to each other, upon request, any of the property of each agency that is being used and will continue to be used in the administration of any functions relating to the Native Americans. The term property, as used in this delegation, includes real property and such personal property as the Secretary making the transfer or re-transfer determines to be related personal property. The Departments must exercise the authority conferred in this section following applicable GSA regulations issued pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code.
§ 102-75.1115
Are there any limitations or restrictions on this delegation of authority?
This authority must be used only in connection with property that the appropriate Secretary determines—
(a) Comprises a functional unit;
(b) Is located within the United States; and
(c) Has an acquisition cost of $100,000 or less, provided that the transfer or retransfer does not include property situated in any area that is recognized as an urban area or place as identified by the most recent decennial census.
§ 102-75.1120
Does the property have to be Federally screened?
No, screening is not required because it would accomplish no useful purpose, since the property subject to transfer or retransfer will continue to be used in the administration of any functions relating to Native Americans.
§ 102-75.1125
Can the transfer/retransfer under this delegation be at no cost or without consideration?
Yes, transfers/retransfers under this delegation can be at no cost or without consideration, except—
(a) Where funds programmed and appropriated for acquisition of the property are available to the Secretary requesting the transfer or retransfer; or
(b) Whenever reimbursement at fair market value is required by subpart B of this part (entitled “Utilization of Excess Real Property”).
§ 102-75.1130
What action must the Secretary requesting the transfer take where funds were not programmed and appropriated for acquisition of the property?
The Secretary requesting the transfer or retransfer must certify in writing that no funds are available to acquire the property. The Secretary transferring or retransferring the property may make any determination necessary that would otherwise be made by GSA to carry out the authority contained in this delegation.
§ 102-75.1135
May this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education be redelegated?
Yes, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education may redelegate any of the authority contained in this delegation to any officers or employees of their respective departments.

# Subpart G—Conditional Gifts of Real Property to Further the Defense Effort
§ 102-75.1140
What is the policy governing the acceptance or rejection of a conditional gift of real property for a particular defense purpose?
Any Federal agency receiving an offer of a conditional gift of real property for a particular defense purpose within the purview of Chapter 582-Public Law 537 (July 27, 1954) must notify the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office and must submit to GSA a recommendation indicating whether the Government should accept or reject the gift. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as applicable to the acceptance of gifts under the provisions of other laws. Following receipt of such notification and recommendation, GSA must—
(a) Consult with the interested agencies before it may accept or reject such conditional gifts of real property on behalf of the United States or before it transfers such conditional gifts of real property to an agency; and
(b) Advise the donor and the agencies concerned of the action taken with respect to acceptance or rejection of the conditional gift and of its final disposition.
§ 102-75.1145
What action must the Federal agency receiving an offer of a conditional gift take?
Prior to notifying the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office, the receiving Federal agency must acknowledge receipt of the offer in writing and advise the donor that the offer will be referred to the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office. The receiving agency must not indicate acceptance or rejection of the gift on behalf of the United States at this time. The receiving agency must provide a copy of the acknowledgment with the notification and recommendation to the GSA regional property disposal office.
§ 102-75.1150
What happens to the gift if GSA determines it to be acceptable?
When GSA determines that the gift is acceptable and can be accepted and used in the form in which it was offered, GSA must designate an agency and transfer the gift without reimbursement to this agency to use as the donor intended.
§ 102-75.1155
May an acceptable gift of property be converted to money?
GSA can determine whether or not a gift of property can and should be converted to money. After conversion, GSA must deposit the funds with the Treasury Department for transfer to an appropriate account that will best effectuate the intent of the donor, in accordance with Treasury Department procedures.

# Subpart H—Use of Federal Real Property To Assist the Homeless

# Source:
89 FR 89889, Nov. 13, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 102-75.1160
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Applicant
means any eligible organization that has submitted an application to the Department of Health and Human Services to obtain use of a certain suitable property to assist the homeless.
Checklist or property checklist
means the form developed by HUD for use by landholding agencies to report the information to be used by HUD in making determinations of suitability.
Classification
means a property's designation as unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus.
Day
means one calendar day, including weekends and holidays.
Eligible organization
means a State or local government agency, or a private,
non-profit organization that provides assistance to the homeless, and that is authorized under the State law in which the property is located to carry out the activity for which it requests property and enter into an agreement with the Federal Government for use of property for the purposes of this part. Eligible organizations that are private, non-profit organizations interested in applying for suitable property must be tax exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code at the time of application and remain tax exempt throughout the time the Federal Government retains a reversionary interest in the property.
Encumbrance
means any non-approved use by a transferee or a third party that limits the full utilization of the transferred property, regardless of time period, and includes liens, easements, restrictive covenants, licenses, leases, mortgages, informal agreements, and unaddressed trespass.
Excess property
means any property under the control of a Federal executive agency that the head of the agency determines is not required to meet the agency's needs or responsibilities, pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 524.
GSA
means the General Services Administration.
HHS
means the Department of Health and Human Services.
Homeless
is defined in 42 U.S.C. 11302. This term is synonymous with “homeless individual” and “homeless person.”
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HUD website
means a website maintained by HUD providing information about HUD, including any successor websites or technologies that are equally accessible and available to the public.
Landholding agency
means the Federal department or agency with statutory authority to control property. For purposes of this subpart, the landholding agency is typically the Federal department or agency that had custody and accountability on behalf of the Federal Government, of a certain piece of property at the time that such property was reported to HUD for a suitability determination pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 11411.
Lease
means an agreement in writing between either HHS for surplus property or landholding agencies for underutilized and unutilized properties and the applicant giving rise to the relationship of lessor and lessee for the use of Federal property for a term of at least one year under the conditions set forth in the lease document.
Non-profit organization
means an organization recognized as a non-profit by the State in which the organization operates, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; that has a voluntary board; that has an accounting system or has designated an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures; and that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance.
Permit
means a license granted by a landholding agency to use unutilized or underutilized property for a specific amount of time, usually one year or less, under terms and conditions determined by the landholding agency. A permit does not grant to the recipient an estate in land or any interest in the property.
Property
means real property consisting of vacant land or buildings, or a portion thereof, that is excess, surplus, or designated as unutilized or underutilized in surveys by the heads of landholding agencies conducted pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 524.
Related personal property
means any personal property that is located on real property and is either an integral part of or useful in the operation of that property or is determined by GSA to be otherwise related to the property.
Representative of the homeless
means a State or local government agency, or private nonprofit organization that provides, or proposes to provide, services to the homeless.
Screen
means the process by which GSA surveys Federal executive agencies to determine if they have an interest in using excess Federal property to carry out a particular agency mission, and then surveys State, local and non-profit entities, to determine if any such entity has an interest in using
surplus Federal property to carry out a specific public use.
State
means a State of the United States, and includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Territories and possessions of the United States.
Suitable property
means that HUD has determined that a certain property satisfies the criteria listed in § 102-75.1165.
Surplus property
means any excess property not required by any Federal landholding agency for its needs or the discharge of its responsibilities, as determined by GSA.
Transfer document
means a lease, deed, or permit transferring surplus, unutilized, or underutilized property.
Transferee
means an eligible entity that acquires Federal property by lease, deed, or permit.
Underutilized
means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements which is used only at irregular periods or intermittently by the accountable landholding agency for current program purposes of that agency, or which is used for current program purposes that can be satisfied with only a portion of the property.
Unsuitable property
means that HUD has determined that a particular property does not satisfy the criteria in § 102-75.1165.
Unutilized property
means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements, not occupied for current program purposes for the accountable executive agency or occupied in caretaker status only.

# Applicability
§ 102-75.1161
What is the applicability of this subpart?
(a) This subpart applies to Federal property that has been designated by Federal landholding agencies as unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus and is therefore subject to the provisions of Title V of the McKinney Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 11411).
(b) The following categories of properties are not subject to this subpart (regardless of whether they may be unutilized or underutilized):
(1) Buildings and property at military installations that were approved for closure under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Pub. L. 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) after October 25, 1994.
(2) Machinery and equipment not determined to be related personal property by the landholding agency or GSA or determined to be related personal property that the landholding agency or GSA chooses to dispose of separate from real property.
(3) Government-owned, contractor-operated machinery, equipment, land, and other facilities reported excess for sale only to the using contractor and subject to a continuing military requirement.
(4) Properties subject to special legislation directing a particular action.
(5) Properties subject to a court order that is binding on the Federal Government and, for any reason, precludes transfer for use to assist the homeless under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 11411.
(6) Property not subject to Federal Real Property Council reporting requirements in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 623(i).
(7) Mineral rights interests independent of surface rights.
(8) Air space interests independent of surface rights.
(9) Indian Reservation land subject to 40 U.S.C. 523.
(10) Property interests subject to reversion.
(11) Easements.
(12) Any building or fixture that is excess, or surplus, that is on land under the control of a landholding agency, where the underlying land is not excess or surplus.
(13) Property purchased in whole or in part with Federal funds if title to the property is not held by a Federal landholding agency as defined in this subpart.

# Collecting the Information
§ 102-75.1162
How will information be collected?
(a)
Canvass of landholding agencies.
On a quarterly basis, HUD will canvass each landholding agency to collect information about property described as unutilized, underutilized, excess or surplus in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 524; however, HUD will accept property information between canvasses. Each canvass will collect information on properties not previously reported, and
about property reported previously where the status or classification of the property has changed, or improvements have been made to the property. HUD will request descriptive information on properties sufficient to make a reasonable determination, under the criteria described in this section, of the suitability of a property for use to assist the homeless. Landholding agencies must report property information to HUD using the property checklist developed by HUD for that purpose. Property checklists submitted in response to a canvass must be submitted to HUD within 25 days of receipt of the canvass.
(b)
Agency annual suitable property report.
By December 31 of each year, each landholding agency must notify HUD of the current availability status and classification of each property controlled by the agency that:
(1) Was included in a list of suitable properties published that year by HUD; and
(2) Remains available for application for use to assist the homeless or has become available for application during that year.
(c)
GSA inventory.
HUD will collect information, in the same manner as described in paragraph (a) of this section, from GSA regarding property that is in GSA's current inventory of excess or surplus property.
(d)
Change in status.
If the information provided on the property checklist changes subsequent to HUD's determination of suitability, including any improvements or other alterations to the physical condition of the land or the buildings on the property, and the property remains unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus, the landholding agency must submit a revised property checklist in response to the next quarterly canvass. HUD will review for suitability and, if it differs from the previous determination, repost the property information on the HUD website. For example, property determined unsuitable due to extensive deterioration may have had improvements, or property determined suitable may subsequently be found to be extensively deteriorated.

# Suitability Determination
§ 102-75.1163
Who issues the suitability determination?
(a)
Suitability determination.
Within 30 days after the receipt of a completed property checklist from landholding agencies either in response to a quarterly canvass, or between canvasses, HUD will determine, using the criteria set forth in 24 CFR 581.6 whether a property is suitable for use to assist the homeless and report its determination to the landholding agency. Properties that are under lease, contract, license, or agreement by which a Federal agency retains a real property interest or which are scheduled to become unutilized or underutilized will be reviewed for suitability no earlier than six months prior to the expected date when the property will become unutilized or underutilized.
(b)
Scope of suitability.
HUD will determine the suitability of a property for use to assist the homeless without regard to any particular use.
(c)
Environmental information.
HUD will evaluate the environmental information contained in property checklists forwarded to HUD by the landholding agencies solely for the purpose of determining suitability of properties under the criteria in § 102-75.1166.
(d)
Record of suitability determination.
HUD will assign an identification number to each property reviewed for suitability. HUD will maintain a public record of the following:
(1) The suitability determination for a particular piece of property, and the reasons for that determination; and
(2) The landholding agency's response to the determination pursuant to the requirements of § 102-75.1166(a).
(e)
Property determined unsuitable.
Property that is reviewed by HUD under this section and that is determined unsuitable for use to assist the homeless may not be made available for any other purpose for 20 days after publication of a notice of unsuitability on the HUD website.
(f)
Procedures for appealing unsuitability determinations.
(1) To request review of a determination of unsuitability, a representative of the homeless must contact HUD, in writing, through the U.S. Mail, email, or
the HUD website, or such other method as HUD may require, within 20 days of publication of the notice of unsuitability.
(2) Requests for review of a determination of unsuitability may be made only by representatives of the homeless.
(3) The request for review must specify the grounds on which it is based,
i.e.,
HUD has improperly applied the criteria or HUD has relied on incorrect or incomplete information in making the determination (
e.g.,
that property is in a floodplain but not in a floodway).
(4) Upon receipt of a request to review a determination of unsuitability, HUD will notify the landholding agency or GSA that such a request has been made. The landholding agency or GSA shall have 20 days from receipt of the notice from HUD, or an extended period agreed to between HUD and the landholding agency or GSA, to provide any information pertinent to the review. The landholding agency or GSA must refrain from initiating disposal procedures until HUD has completed its reconsideration regarding unsuitability. If the landholding agency or GSA fails to meet the deadline, HUD will move forward with the appeal review with the property information it already has and information submitted in the appeal request provided by the representative of the homeless.
(i) HUD will act on all requests for review within 30 days of receipt of the landholding agency's or GSA's response, or, if the landholding agency or GSA failed to meet the deadline, within 30 days of such deadline, and will notify the representative of the homeless and the landholding agency or GSA in writing of its decision.
(ii) If a property is determined suitable as a result of the review, HUD will request the landholding agency's or GSA's determination of availability pursuant to § 102-75.1166, upon receipt of which HUD will promptly publish the determination on the HUD website.

# Real Property Reported Excess to GSA
§ 102-75.1164
For the purposes of this subpart, what is the policy concerning real property reported excess to GSA?
(a) Each landholding agency must submit a report to GSA of properties it determines excess. Each landholding agency must also provide a copy of HUD's suitability determination, if any, including HUD's identification number for the property.
(b) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that HUD has already determined to be suitable for use to assist the homeless, GSA will screen the property pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section and will advise HUD of the availability of the property for use by the homeless as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. In lieu of the preceding sentence, GSA may submit a new checklist to HUD and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section.
(c) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that has not been reviewed by HUD for homeless assistance suitability, GSA will complete a property checklist, based on information provided by the landholding agency, and will forward this checklist to HUD for a suitability determination. This checklist will reflect any change in classification, such as from unutilized or underutilized to excess or surplus.
(d) Within 30 days after GSA's submission, HUD will advise GSA of the suitability determination.
(e) When GSA receives notification from HUD listing suitable excess properties, GSA will transmit a response to HUD within 45 days. GSA's response will include the following for each identified property:
(1) A statement that there is no other compelling Federal need for the property and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or
(2) A statement that there is further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and that, therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.
(f) When GSA submits a checklist to HUD in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the information regarding the availability of the property, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) and (2) of this section, may be included with the checklist if it is known at the time of submittal.
(g) When a surplus property is determined as suitable, confirmed as available by GSA, and notice is published on the HUD website, GSA will concurrently notify HHS, State and local government units, and known homeless assistance providers that have expressed interest in the particular property, and other organizations, as appropriate, concerning suitable properties.
(h) Upon submission of a Report of Excess to GSA, GSA may screen the property for Federal use. In addition, GSA may screen State and local governmental units and eligible non-profit organizations to determine interest in the property in accordance with this part. (See §§ 102-75.1220, 102-75.255, and 102-75.350.)
(i) The landholding agency will retain custody and accountability and will protect and maintain any property that is reported excess to GSA as provided in § 102-75.965.

# Suitability Criteria
§ 102-75.1165
What are suitability criteria?
(a) In general, properties will be determined suitable unless a property's characteristics include one or more of the following conditions:
(1)
Flammable or explosive hazards.
Property located less than an acceptable separation distance (under the standards in 24 CFR part 51, subpart C, and the HUD Guidebook, “Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Facilities” or successor guidebook) from any stationary aboveground container or facility which stores, handles, or processes hazardous substances of an explosive or fire prone nature (excluding containers and facilities that are not hazards as defined in 24 CFR 51.201), unless HUD can determine during the review period based on information provided by the landholding agency that appropriate mitigating measures, as defined in 24 CFR 51.205, are already in place.
(2)
Coastal barriers.
Property located in a System Unit, as defined at 16 U.S.C. 3502(7), under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
(3)
Site safety conditions.
Property with a documented and extensive condition(s) that represents a clear threat to personal physical safety or health. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, significant contamination from hazardous substances, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 9601, periodic flooding, sinkholes, or landslides.
(b) In the cases in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, properties will be determined unsuitable, unless the landholding agencies provide information to enable HUD to determine the property is suitable:
(1)
Inaccessible.
Property that is inaccessible, meaning that the property is not accessible by road (including property on small offshore islands) or is landlocked (
e.g.,
can be reached only by crossing private property and there is no established right or means of entry).
(2)
National security.
Property located in an area to which the general public is denied access in the interest of national security (
e.g.,
where a special pass or security clearance is a condition of entry to the property), unless there is an alternative method to gain access without compromising national security.
(3)
Runway clear zones.
Property located within a runway clear zone or a military airfield clear zone.
(4)
Floodway.
Property located in a floodway, unless only an incidental portion of the property is in the floodway and that incidental portion does not affect the use of the remainder of the property to assist the homeless.

# Determination of Availability
§ 102-75.1166
What is the policy concerning determination of availability statements for suitable properties?
Within 45 days after receipt of notification from HUD pursuant to § 102-75.1162(a) that a property has been determined to be suitable, each landholding agency or GSA must transmit
to HUD a statement of one of the following:
(a) In the case of unutilized or underutilized property—
(1) An intention to declare the property excess;
(2) An intention to make the property available for use to assist the homeless; or
(3) The reasons why the property cannot be declared excess or made available for use to assist the homeless. The reasons given must be different from those listed as suitability criteria in § 102-75.1165.
(b) In the case of excess property which has been reported to GSA—
(1) A statement that there is no compelling Federal need for the property, and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or
(2) A statement that there is a further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.

# Public Notice of Determination
§ 102-75.1167
What is the policy concerning making public the notice of determination?
(a) No later than 15 days after the most recent 45-day period has elapsed for receiving responses from the landholding agencies or GSA regarding availability, HUD will post on the HUD website a list of all properties reviewed, including a description of the property, its address, and classification. The following designations will be made:
(1) Properties that are suitable and available.
(2) Properties that are suitable and unavailable.
(3) Properties that are suitable and to be declared excess.
(4) Properties that are unsuitable.
(b) HUD will establish and maintain a toll-free number for the public to obtain specific information about properties in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) No later than 15 days after the most recent 45-day period has elapsed for receiving responses from the landholding agencies or GSA regarding availability, HUD will transmit to the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) a copy of the list of all properties in paragraph (a) of this section. The USICH will immediately distribute to all State and regional homeless coordinators area-relevant portions of the list. The USICH will encourage the State and regional homeless coordinators to disseminate this information widely.
(d) No later than February 15 of each year, HUD will publish in the
Federal Register
a list of all properties in the agency annual suitable property reports, reported to HUD pursuant to § 102-75.1162(b).
(e) HUD will publish an annual list of properties determined suitable, but which agencies reported unavailable including the reasons such properties are not available.

# General Policies of HHS
§ 102-75.1168
What are the general policies of HHS?
(a) It is the policy of HHS to foster and assure maximum utilization of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes.
(b) Transfers may be made only to eligible organizations.
(c) Property will be requested for assignment only when HUD has made a final determination that the property is suitable for use to assist the homeless, GSA has determined it is available, and HHS has determined it is needed for homeless assistance purposes. The amount of real and related personal property to be transferred shall not exceed normal operating requirements of the applicant. Such property will not be requested for assignment unless it is needed at the time of application for homeless assistance purposes or will be so needed within the immediate or foreseeable future.
(d) Transfers by deed will be made only after the applicant's financial plan is approved and the applicant provides certification that the proposed program is permissible under all applicable State and local zoning restrictions, building codes, and similar limitations.
(e) In instances of noncompliance, transferees are provided an opportunity to cure the noncompliance pursuant to 45 CFR 12a.10.

# Expression of Interest Process
§ 102-75.1169
How may eligible organizations express interest in properties to assist the homeless?
(a) Properties published by HUD as suitable and available, pursuant to § 102-75.1167, for application for use to assist the homeless shall not be available for any other purpose for a period of 30 days beginning on the date the list of properties is published on the HUD website. Any eligible organization interested in any underutilized, unutilized, excess, or surplus property for use to assist the homeless must send HHS a written expression of interest in that property within 30 days after the property has been published on the HUD website.
(b) Although a property may be determined suitable by HUD, HUD's determination does not mean a property is necessarily fit for use for the purpose(s) stated in the application, nor does it guarantee subsequent conveyance or transfer of a property.
(c) If a written expression of interest to apply for suitable property for use to assist the homeless is received by HHS within the 30-day holding period, such property may not be made available for any other purpose until the date HHS or the appropriate landholding agency has completed action on the application submitted pursuant to that expression of interest.
(d)(1) The expression of interest should identify the specific property, briefly describe the proposed use, include the name of the organization, and indicate whether it is a public body or a private, non-profit organization. The expression of interest must be sent to HHS by email,
rpb@psc.hhs.gov,
or by mail at the following address: Department of Health and Human Services, Program Manager, Federal Real Property Assistance Program, Real Estate Logistics and Operations, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20852.
(2) HHS will notify the landholding agency (for unutilized and underutilized properties) or GSA (for excess and surplus properties) when an expression of interest has been received for a certain property.
(e) An expression of interest may be sent to and accepted by HHS any time after the 30-day holding period has expired only if the property remains available as determined by GSA or the landholding agency for application to assist the homeless. In such a case, an application submitted pursuant to this expression of interest may be approved for use by the homeless if:
(1) There are no pending applications or written expressions of interest made under any law for use of the property for any purpose; and
(2) In the case of excess or surplus property, GSA has not received a bona fide offer to purchase that property or advertised for the sale of the property by public auction.

# Application Process and Requirements
§ 102-75.1170
How may eligible organizations apply for the use of properties to assist the homeless?
(a) Upon receipt of an expression of interest, HHS will send an application packet to the interested entity. The application packet requires the applicant to provide certain information, including the following—
(1)
Acquisition type.
The applicant must state whether it is requesting acquisition of the property by lease, deed, or permit. A lease of one year, extendable at HHS's discretion, with the concurrence of GSA or the landholding agency, may be granted when the applicant's initial application is approved and the applicant's final application outlining the applicant's financial plan is found to be otherwise reasonable based on the criteria in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, but either a change in zoning is required or the financial plan proposes to utilize Low-Income Housing Tax Credits or other funding sources that typically take longer to process than other forms of financing. Applicants that initially apply for transfer by lease or permit and subsequently request transfer by deed will follow the same bifurcated application process, including deadlines, contained in 42 U.S.C. 11411. Should an applicant wish to transition
from acquisition by lease to acquisition by deed, HHS will issue a letter of commitment to a lessee indicating that, provided its application meets all application criteria, including securing of all necessary financing that complies with Federal Government requirements, HHS will issue a deed.
(2)
Description of the applicant organization.
The applicant must document that it satisfies the definition of an
eligible organization
as specified in § 102-75.1160.
(3)
Description of the property desired.
The applicant must describe the listed property desired, including existing zoning. Applicants must certify that any modification(s) made to and use of the property will conform to all applicable building codes, and local use restrictions, or similar limitations. In accordance with GSA policy, determinations regarding parcelization are made prior to screening. Therefore, expressions of interest and applications for portions of listed properties will not be accepted.
(4)
Description of the proposed program.
The applicant must fully describe the proposed program and plan of use, including implementation plans.
(5)
Demonstration of need.
The applicant must demonstrate that the property is needed for homeless assistance purposes at the time of application and how the program will address the needs of the homeless population to be assisted. The applicant must demonstrate that it has an immediate need and ability to utilize all of the property for which it is applying.
(6)
Demonstrate that the property is suitable and adaptable for the proposed program and plan of use.
The applicant must fully explain why the property is suitable and describe what, if any, modification(s) will be made to the property before the program becomes operational.
(7)
Ability to finance and operate the proposed program.
If the applicant's initial application is approved, the applicant must set forth a reasonable plan to finance the approved program within 45 days of the initial approval. To be considered reasonable, the plan must, at a minimum:
(i) Specifically describe all anticipated costs and sources of funding for the proposed program, including any property modifications;
(ii) Be accompanied by supporting documentation which demonstrates that the proposed plan is likely to succeed;
(iii) Demonstrate that the applicant is ready, willing, able, and authorized to assume care, custody, and maintenance of the property;
(iv) Demonstrate that it has secured the necessary dedicated funds, or will obtain such funds, to carry out the approved proposed program and plan of use for the property, including administrative expenses incident to the transfer by deed, lease, or permit;
(v) Not diminish the value of the Federal Government's interest in the property nor impair the Federal Government's ability to revert and immediately dispose of the property free of any and all liens, encumbrances, or anything else which renders the property unmarketable. Deed transfers will only be made after an applicant demonstrates its financial plan adequately protects the Federal Government's interest in the property; and
(vi) Neither subject the Federal Government's interest in the property to foreclosure nor impose obligations (
e.g.,
extended use agreements) on the Federal Government.
(8)
Compliance with non-discrimination requirements.
Each applicant under this part must certify in writing that it will comply with all requirements of Federal law and HHS policy, as amended, relating to non-discrimination, including the following: the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and, as applicable, Executive Order 11063 (Equal Opportunity in Housing) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 107; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d to d-4) (Non-discrimination in Federally Assisted Programs) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1 and 45 CFR part 80; section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act and implementing regulations at 45 CFR part 92; the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146
and 44 CFR part 91; and the prohibitions against discrimination against otherwise qualified individuals with disabilities under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8 and 45 CFR part 84. The applicant must maintain the required records to demonstrate compliance with all applicable Federal laws and HHS policies related to non-discrimination.
(9)
Insurance and indemnification.
The applicant must certify that it will insure the property against loss, damage, or destruction to protect the residual financial interest of the United States. The United States shall be named as an additional insured. Applicants must provide proof of insurance annually or upon request. Failure to maintain sufficient insurance may result in adverse action, including reversion of the property, at the discretion of HHS. In the event of a covered loss, the transferee must hold all insurance proceeds in trust and obtain written concurrence from HHS before disbursing the funds. Applicants, and all affiliated parties utilizing the property, as approved by HHS, must indemnify the United States and hold the United States harmless for all actions involving use of the property.
(10)
Historic preservation.
Where applicable, the applicant must provide information that will enable HHS to comply with Federal historic preservation requirements.
(11)
Environmental information.
The applicant must provide sufficient information to allow HHS to analyze the potential impact of the applicant's proposal on the environment, in accordance with the instructions provided with the application packet. HHS will assist applicants in obtaining any pertinent environmental information in the possession of HUD, GSA, or the landholding agency. However, the burden is on the applicant to submit sufficient documentation for analysis by HHS.
(12)
Local government notification.
The applicant must certify that it has notified the applicable unit of general local government responsible for sewer, water, police, and fire services, in writing, of its proposed program for the specific property and submit a copy of that written notification.
(13)
Zoning and local use restrictions.
An applicant requesting a deed must certify that it has consulted all State and local governmental entities that will have jurisdiction over the property and that the proposed use will comply with all applicable zoning and local use restrictions, including local building code requirements. An applicant that applies for a lease or permit is not required to comply with local zoning requirements, as long as the Federal Government retains ownership of the property. Deed transfers will only be made after the applicant has provided acceptable written proof that the proposed program is not in conflict with State or local zoning laws and restrictions, building codes, or similar limitations.
(b)
Scope of evaluations.
Due to the short time frame imposed by statute for evaluating applications, HHS's evaluation will, generally, be limited to the information contained in the application. It is therefore incumbent on applicants to provide thorough and complete applications.
(c)
Deadline for initial application.
An initial application must be received by HHS, at the email address in § 102-75.1169(d)(1) or other address indicated by HHS, within 75 days after an expression of interest is received from a particular applicant for that property. Upon written request from the applicant, HHS may, in its discretion, grant extensions authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11411(e)(2)(A), provided that the appropriate landholding agency or GSA concurs with the extension.
(d)
Evaluation of initial application.
(1) Upon receipt of an initial application, HHS will review it for completeness, and, if incomplete and time permits, may, in its discretion, return it or ask the applicant to furnish any missing or additional required information prior to final evaluation of the initial application.
(2) HHS will evaluate each initial application within 10 days of receipt and will promptly advise the applicant of its decision. All initial applications will be reviewed on the basis of the following elements:
(i)
Services offered.
The extent and range of proposed services, such as meals, shelter, job training, and counseling.
(ii)
Need.
The demand for the program, the program's ability to satisfy unmet needs of the community, and the degree to which the available property will be fully utilized.
(iii)
Experience.
Demonstrated ability to provide the services, such as prior success in operating similar programs and recommendations attesting to that fact by Federal, State, and local authorities.
(e)
Deadline and evaluation of final application.
(1) If HHS approves an initial application, HHS will notify the applicant and provide the applicant 45 days in which to provide a final application. The final application shall set forth a reasonable plan to finance, as specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the approved program as set forth in the initial application. Applicants may not modify the approved initial application within its final application proposal.
(2) Upon receipt of the final application, HHS will make a determination within 15 days and notify the applicant.
(3) Unlike with initial applications, requests for extensions are not authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11411 and thus will not be considered for final applications.
(4) Applications are evaluated on a first-come, first-served basis. HHS will notify all organizations that have submitted expressions of interest for a particular property whether an earlier application received for that property has been approved.
(f)
Competing applications.
If HHS receives more than one final application simultaneously, HHS will evaluate all applications and make a determination based on each application's merit. HHS will rank approved applications based on the elements listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and notify the landholding agency, or GSA, as appropriate, of the approved applicant.

# Action on Approved Applications
§ 102-75.1171
What action must be taken on approved applications?
(a)
Unutilized and underutilized properties.
(1) When HHS approves an application, it will so notify the applicant and forward a copy of the application to the landholding agency. The landholding agency will execute the lease, or permit document, as appropriate, in consultation with the applicant.
(2) The landholding agency maintains the discretion to decide the following:
(i) The length of time the property will be available.
(ii) The terms and conditions of the lease or permit document (except that a landholding agency may not charge any fees or impose any costs).
(b)
Excess and surplus properties.
(1) When HHS approves an application, it will so notify the applicant and request that GSA assign the property to HHS for transfer. Requests to GSA for the assignment of surplus property to HHS for homeless assistance purposes will be based on the following conditions:
(i) HHS has a fully approved application for the property;
(ii) The applicant is able, willing, and authorized to assume immediate care, custody, and maintenance of the property;
(iii) The applicant is able, willing and authorized to pay the administrative expenses incident to the transfer; and
(iv) The applicant has secured the necessary funds, or had demonstrated the ability to obtain such funds, to carry out the approved program of use of the property.
(2) Upon receipt of an acceptable assignment, HHS will execute the transfer document in accordance with the procedures and requirements set out in this subpart and any other terms and conditions HHS and GSA determines are appropriate or necessary. Custody and accountability of the property will remain throughout the lease term with the landholding agency (
i.e.,
the agency which initially reported the property as excess) and throughout the deed term with the transferee.
(3) Prior to assignment to HHS, GSA may consider other Federal uses and other important national needs in deciding the disposition of surplus property. Priority of consideration will normally be given to uses to assist the homeless. However, both GSA and HHS may consider any competing request for the property made under 40 U.S.C.
550 that is so meritorious and compelling that it outweighs the needs of the homeless.
(4) Whenever GSA or HHS decides in favor of a competing request over a request for property for homeless assistance, the agency making the decision will transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress an explanatory statement which details the need satisfied by conveyance of the surplus property, and the reasons for determining that such need was so meritorious and compelling as to outweigh the needs of the homeless.

# Surplus Property Transfer Documents
§ 102-75.1172
What documents are used for the transfer of surplus property for use to assist the homeless?
(a) Surplus property may be conveyed to eligible organizations pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 550(d) and 42 U.S.C. 11411, as amended, by lease or deed, at the applicant's discretion.
(b) Transfers of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes are in exchange for the transferee's agreement to fully utilize the property for homeless assistance purposes in accordance with the terms specified in the transfer document.
(c) A transfer of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes is subject to the disapproval of GSA within 30 days after notice is given to GSA of the proposed transfer.
(d) Surplus property transferred pursuant to this subpart will be disposed on an “as is, where is” basis without warranty of any kind except as may be stated in the transfer document.
(e) Unless excepted by GSA in its assignment, the disposal of property includes mineral rights associated with the surface estate.
(f) Transfers of surplus property under this subpart will be made with the following general terms and conditions:
(1) For the period provided in the transfer document, the transferee shall utilize all the surplus property it receives solely and continuously for the approved program and plan of use, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11411 and this subpart, except that:
(i) The transferee has 12 months from the date of transfer to place the surplus property into use, if HHS did not approve in writing, construction of new facilities or major renovation of the property when it approved the final application;
(ii) The transferee has 48 months from the date of transfer to place the surplus property into use, if the transferee proposes construction of new facilities or major renovation of the property and HHS approves it in writing at the time it approves the final application;
(iii) If the applicable time limitation is not met, the transferee shall either commence payments in cash to the Federal Government for each month thereafter during which the proposed use has not been implemented or take such other action as set forth at § 102-75.1176 as is deemed appropriate by HHS. Such monthly payments shall be computed on the basis of the current fair market value of the property, as conveyed, at the time of the first payment and dividing it by 360 months. At HHS's discretion, the payment may be waived if the transferee makes a sufficient showing of continued progress to place the property into use or if an unforeseeable event occurs which prevents the property from being put into use within the applicable timeframe; and
(iv) HHS may permit use of surplus property at any time during the period of restriction by an entity other than the transferee in accordance with § 102-75.1177.
(2) The transferee will not be permitted to encumber, or dispose of the property, or impair full utilization thereof, without the prior written authorization of HHS. In the event the property is encumbered, sold, or disposed of, or is used for any purposes other than those set forth in an approved plan without the written consent of HHS, all revenues or the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from such use, as determined by HHS, will be considered to have been received and held in trust by the transferee for the account of the United
States and will be subject to the direction and control of HHS. The provisions of this paragraph (f)(2) shall not impair or affect the rights reserved to the United States in paragraph (f)(8) of this section, or the right of HHS to impose conditions to its consent.
(3) The transferee will file with HHS such reports on its maintenance and use of the surplus property and any other reports or information deemed necessary by HHS.
(4) The transferee shall pay all administrative costs incidental to the transfer, including but not limited to—transfer taxes; surveys; appraisals; title search; the transferee's legal fees; recordation expenses, etc. Transferee is solely responsible for such costs and may not seek reimbursement from the Federal Government for any reason.
(5) The transferee shall protect, preserve, maintain, and repair the property to ensure that the property remains in as good a condition as when received.
(6) The transferee shall protect the residual financial interest of the United States in the surplus property by insurance or such other means as HHS directs.
(7) The transferee shall abide by all applicable Federal civil rights laws including those specified in the covenants and conditions contained in the transfer document, prohibiting the transferee from discriminating on the basis of, including but not limited to, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or disability in the use of the property.
(8) In the event of noncompliance with any conditions of the deed as determined by HHS, whether caused by the legal or other inability of the transferee, its successors and assigns, to perform any of the obligations of the transfer document, the Federal Government has an immediate right of reentry thereon, and to cause all right, title, and interest in and to the property to revert to the United States, and the transferee shall forfeit all right, title, and interest in and to the property. In such event, transferee shall execute a quitclaim deed and take all other actions necessary to return the property to the United States within ninety (90) days of a written request from the Federal Government, extended only at the discretion of the Federal Government. Transferee shall cooperate with the United States in the event of a reversion and agrees that the United States need not seek judicial intervention before exercising its right to revert, reenter, and reconvey the property.
(9) In the event title is reverted to the United States for noncompliance or voluntarily reconveyed to the United States, the transferee shall, at the option of HHS, be required to: reimburse the United States for the decrease in value of the property not due to market conditions, reasonable wear and tear, acts of God, or approved alterations completed by the transferee to adapt the property to the homeless use for which the property was transferred; and reimburse the United States for any costs incurred in reverting title to or possession of the property, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
(10) With respect to leased property, in the event of noncompliance with any of the conditions of the lease, as determined by HHS or the landholding agency, the right of occupancy and possession shall, at the option of HHS or the landholding agency, be terminated. In the event a leasehold is terminated by the United States for noncompliance or is voluntarily surrendered, the lessee shall be required, at the option of HHS, to reimburse the United States for the decrease in value of the property not due to market conditions, reasonable wear and tear, acts of God, or approved alterations completed by the lessee to adapt the property to the homeless use for which the property was leased. With respect to any termination of leasehold resulting from noncompliance, the United States, shall, in addition thereto, be reimbursed for such costs as may be incurred in recovering possession of the property, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
(11) Any other term or condition that HHS and GSA determine appropriate or necessary.
(12) With respect to surplus property transferred by deed, the terms and conditions including those in this paragraph (f), apply for a period of three
hundred sixty (360) months of use in accordance with a program of use approved in writing by HHS. The three hundred sixty months (360) period may, in HHS's sole discretion, be extended or restarted in the event the property is not fully utilized or is retransferred to a successor entity. Expiration of the terms and conditions in this paragraph (f) does not release the transferee from continuing compliance, as appropriate, with any conditions that may run with the land,
e.g.,
environmental conditions and/or historic preservation covenants. Such conditions will continue to be the responsibility of the transferee and successors.
(13) With respect to surplus property transferred by lease, the terms and conditions including those in this paragraph (f), extend for the entire initial lease and for any subsequent renewal periods, unless specifically excluded in writing by HHS.
(g) Related personal property may be transferred or leased as a part of the realty and in accordance with real property procedures.
(h) Transferees will be responsible for the protection and maintenance of the property during the time that they possess the property. Upon termination of the lease term or reversion of title to the United States, the transferee will be responsible for removing improvements made to the property if directed to by the United States and, in such event, will be responsible for restoration of the property or the costs associated with restoring the property. If improvements made by the transferee are not voluntarily removed by the transferee and the United States consents, they will become the property of the United States. If the United States does not consent, the transferee shall reimburse the United States for reasonable costs of removal. GSA or the landholding agency, as appropriate, will assume responsibility for protection and maintenance of a property when the lease terminates or title reverts.
(i) Transferees, by obtaining the written consent of HHS, may abrogate the restrictions set forth in paragraph (f) of this section for all or any portion of the property in accordance with the provisions of § 102-75.1178.

# Unsuitable Properties
§ 102-75.1173
What action must be taken on properties determined unsuitable for homeless assistance?
The landholding agency or GSA will defer action to dispose of properties determined unsuitable for homeless assistance for 20 days after the date that notice of a property is posted on the HUD website. HUD will inform landholding agencies or GSA if an appeal of an unsuitability determination is filed by a representative of the homeless pursuant to § 102-75.1163(f). HUD will advise the agency to refrain from initiating disposal procedures until HUD has completed its reconsideration process regarding unsuitability. Thereafter, or if no appeal has been filed after 20 days, GSA or the appropriate landholding agency may proceed with disposal action in accordance with applicable law.

# Compliance With the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and Other Related Acts (Environmental Impact)
§ 102-75.1174
What are the requirements for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other related Acts (environmental impact) for the transfer of Federal real property for use to assist the homeless?
(a) HHS, prior to making a final decision to convey or lease, or to amend, reform, or grant an approval or release with respect to a previous conveyance or lease of, surplus property for homeless purposes, will act in accordance with applicable provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, the National Archeological Data Preservation Act, and other related acts. No lease to use surplus property shall allow the lessee to make, or cause to be made, any irreversible change in the conditions of said property, and no lease shall be employed for the purpose of delaying or avoiding compliance with the requirements of these Acts, unless approved by the United States.
(b) Applicants shall be required to provide such information as HHS
deems necessary to make an assessment of the impact of the proposed Federal action on the human environment. Materials contained in the applicant's official request, responses to a standard questionnaire prescribed by HHS, as well as other relevant information, will be used by HHS in making said assessment.
(c) If the assessment reveals:
(1) That the proposed Federal action involved properties of historical significance which are listed, or eligible for listing, in the National Register of Historic Places; or
(2) That a more than insignificant impact on the human environment is reasonably foreseeable as a result of the proposed action; or
(3) That the proposed Federal action could result in irreparable loss or destruction of archeologically significant items or data, HHS will, except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, prepare and distribute, or cause to be prepared or distributed, such notices and statements and obtain such approvals as are required by the Acts cited in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) If a proposed action involves other Federal agencies in a sequence of actions, or a group of actions, directly related to each other because of their functional interdependence, HHS may enter into and support a lead agency agreement to designate a single lead agency which will assume primary responsibility for coordinating the assessment of environmental effects of proposed Federal actions, preparing and distributing such notices and statements, or obtaining such approvals, as are required by the Acts cited in paragraph (a) of this section. The procedures of the designated lead agency will be utilized in conducting the environmental assessment. In the event of disagreement between HHS and another Federal agency, HHS will reserve the right to abrogate the lead agency agreement with the other Federal agency.

# No Applications Approved
§ 102-75.1175
What action must be taken if there is no expression of interest or approved application?
(a) At the end of the 30-day holding period described in § 102-75.1169(a), HHS will notify GSA, or the landholding agency, as appropriate, if an expression of interest has been received for a certain property. Where there is no expression of interest, GSA or the landholding agency, as appropriate, will proceed with disposal in accordance with applicable law.
(b) Upon notice from HHS that all applications have been disapproved, or if no initial applications have been received within 75 days after an expression of interest, or no final application has been received within 45 days after an approved initial application, disposal may proceed in accordance with applicable law.

# Utilization and Enforcement
§ 102-75.1176
What are the utilization and enforcement requirements for property transferred for use to assist the homeless?
(a)
Sanctions.
For instances of noncompliance relating to surplus property transfers, HHS may impose, after providing an opportunity to cure to the transferee, any or all of the following sanctions in its sole discretion, as applicable:
(1) Where property or any portion thereof was not used or is not being used for the purposes for which transferred, or is sold, leased or subleased, encumbered, disposed of, or used for purposes other than those in the approved program and plan of use, without the prior written consent of HHS, HHS may require the transferee to—
(i) Place the property into immediate use for an approved purpose and extend the period of restriction in the transfer document for an additional term as determined by HHS;
(ii) Hold in trust all revenues and the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from that use for the United States subject to the direction and control of HHS;
(iii) Return title to such property to the United States or to relinquish any leasehold interest therein;
(iv) Abrogate the conditions and restrictions of the transfer, as set forth in § 102-75.1178;
(v) Make cash payments to the United States, as directed by HHS, equivalent to the current fair market
rental value of the surplus property, as transferred, for each month during which the program and plan of use has not been implemented and continues to not be implemented; or
(vi) Any other remedy that HHS determines appropriate or necessary.
(2) Where the transferee desires to place the property into temporary use to assist the homeless other than that for which the property was transferred, written approval from HHS must be obtained, and will be conditioned upon HHS's authority to permit the use and such terms as HHS may impose.
(3) If HHS or the landholding agency determines that a lessee or sublessee of a transferee is in noncompliance with a term or condition of the lease, or if the lessee voluntarily surrenders the premises, HHS may require termination of the lease and impose sanctions described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as appropriate.
(b)
Reversion.
When HHS recommends reversion of the property for noncompliance, HHS will seek GSA's concurrence. GSA will respond to HHS's concurrence request within 30 days of its receipt. If GSA concurs, GSA will work with HHS to complete the reversion of the property. If GSA does not concur to the reversion recommendation, GSA will issue, to HHS, a written determination: stating the reason(s) for the disapproval; and acknowledging that HHS has recommended reversion and, therefore, the property is no longer within HHS's Title V program. The Federal Government will implement a response to the noncompliance that is in its best interests.

# Other Uses
§ 102-75.1177
What are the requirements for other uses of a transferred property?
(a) A transferee may permit the use of all or a portion of the surplus property by another eligible entity as described in § 102-75.1160 for homeless assistance purposes, only upon those terms and conditions HHS determines appropriate, if:
(1) The transferee submits a written request to HHS explaining the purpose of and need for another eligible entity's use of the property, program plan, and other relevant information requested by HHS;
(2) HHS determines that the proposed use would not substantially limit the program and plan of use by the transferee and that the use will not unduly burden the Federal Government;
(3) HHS's written consent is obtained by the transferee in advance;
(4) HHS approves the use instrument in advance and in writing;
(5) The transferee agrees to lengthen the period of restrictions as determined by HHS; and
(6) HHS advises GSA and there is no disapproval by GSA within thirty (30) days.
(b) A transferee that does not follow paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Title V program and subject to enforcement action, including reversion of the property.

# Abrogation
§ 102-75.1178
What are the conditions of abrogation for property transferred to assist the homeless?
(a) HHS may abrogate the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document if:
(1) The transferee submits to HHS a written request that HHS abrogate the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document as to all or any portion of the surplus property;
(2) HHS determines the terms and conditions of the proposed abrogation and determines that the proposed abrogation is in the best interest of the United States; and
(3) HHS transmits the abrogation request to GSA and there is no disapproval by GSA within 30 days after notice is given. If GSA disapproves, GSA will state, in writing, to HHS the reason(s) for the disapproval.
(b) HHS abrogates the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document only upon receipt of the appropriate consideration, including cash payment, to the United States, as directed by HHS, which is based on the formula contained in the transfer document, and any other terms and conditions HHS deems appropriate to protect the interest of the United States.

# Compliance Inspections and Reports
§ 102-75.1179
What compliance inspections and reports are required?
Transferees are required to allow HHS to conduct compliance inspections and to submit such compliance reports and actions as are deemed necessary by HHS. At a minimum, the transferee will be required to submit an annual utilization report regarding the operation and maintenance of the property, including current images of the entire property and such information as HHS shall require.

# No Right of Administrative Review for Agency Decisions
§ 102-75.1180
Is there a right of administrative review for agency decisions within HHS?
There is no right to administrative review within HHS, including requests for reconsideration or appeal, of agency decisions on applications and other discretionary decisions.

# Waivers
§ 102-75.1181
May any requirement of this subpart be waived??
The Secretary of HUD may waive any requirement of this subpart (over which the Secretary of HUD has jurisdiction) that is not required by law, whenever it is determined that undue hardship would result from applying the requirement, or where application of the requirement would adversely affect the purposes of the program. Each waiver will be in writing and will be supported by documentation of the pertinent facts and grounds. The Secretary periodically will publish notice of granted waivers on the HUD website.

# Severability
§ 102-75.1182
Are the provisions of this subpart severable?
Any provision of this subpart held to be invalid or unenforceable with respect to certain parties or circumstances shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law unless such holding is that the provision of this subpart is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of this subpart and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
§§ 102-75.1183-102-75.1219
[Reserved]
Pt. 102-76

# PART 102-76—DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-76.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-76.10
What basic design and construction policy governs Federal agencies?

# Subpart B—Design and Construction
102-76.15
What are design and construction services?
102-76.20
What issues must Federal agencies consider in providing site planning and landscape design services?
102-76.25
What standards must Federal agencies meet in providing architectural and interior design services?
102-76.30
What seismic safety standards must Federal agencies follow in the design and construction of Federal facilities?

# National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
102-76.35
What is the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (NEPA)?
102-76.40
To which real property actions does NEPA apply?
102-76.45
What procedures must Federal agencies follow to implement the requirements of NEPA?

# Sustainable Development
102-76.50
What is sustainable development?
102-76.55
What sustainable development principles must Federal agencies apply to the siting, design, and construction of new facilities?

# Subpart C—Architectural Barriers Act
102-76.60
To which facilities does the Architectural Barriers Act Apply?
102-76.65
What standards must facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act meet?
102-76.70
When are the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
102-76.75
What costs are included in the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area
containing a primary function for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
102-76.80
What is required if the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function are disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
102-76.85
What is a primary function area for purposes of providing an accessible route in leased facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
102-76.90
Who has the authority to waive or modify the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
102-76.95
What recordkeeping responsibilities do Federal agencies have?

# Public Rights-of-Way
102-76.100
What definition applies to this part?
102-76.105
What standard must public rights-of-way subject to the Architectural Barriers Act and covered under § 102-76.65(a) meet?
102-76.110
Where pedestrian facilities subject to the standard in § 102-76.105(a) are altered, must an alteration to a pedestrian facility be connected by a compliant pedestrian access route to an existing pedestrian circulation path?
102-76.115
Who has the authority to waive or modify the standards in § 102-76.105(a)?
102-76.120
What recordkeeping responsibilities do Federal agencies have?
102-76.125
What portions of this subpart are severable?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c) (in furtherance of the Administrator's authorities under 40 U.S.C. 3301-3315 and elsewhere as included under 40 U.S.C. 581 and 583); 42 U.S.C. 4152.

# Source:
70 FR 67845, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-76.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services. The accessibility standards in subpart C of this part apply to Federal agencies and other entities whose facilities are subject to the Architectural Barriers Act.
[70 FR 67845, Nov. 8, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 5943, Feb. 8, 2007]
§ 102-76.10
What basic design and construction policy governs Federal agencies?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, are bound by the following basic design and construction policies:
(a) Provide the highest quality services for designing and constructing new Federal facilities and for repairing and altering existing Federal facilities. These services must be timely, efficient, and cost effective.
(b) Use a distinguished architectural style and form in Federal facilities that reflects the dignity, enterprise, vigor and stability of the Federal Government.
(c) Follow nationally recognized model building codes and other applicable nationally recognized codes that govern Federal construction to the maximum extent feasible and consider local building code requirements. (See 40 U.S.C. 3310 and 3312.)
(d) Design Federal buildings to have a long life expectancy and accommodate periodic changes due to renovations.
(e) Make buildings cost effective, energy efficient, and accessible to and usable by the physically disabled.
(f) Provide for building service equipment that is accessible for maintenance, repair, or replacement without significantly disturbing occupied space.
(g) Consider ease of operation when selecting mechanical and electrical equipment.
(h) Agencies must follow the prospectus submission and approval policy identified in §§ 102-73.35 and 102-73.40 of this chapter.

# Subpart B—Design and Construction
§ 102-76.15
What are design and construction services?
Design and construction services are—
(a) Site planning and landscape design;
(b) Architectural and interior design; and
(c) Engineering systems design.
§ 102-76.20
What issues must Federal agencies consider in providing site planning and landscape design services?
In providing site planning and design services, Federal agencies must—
(a) Make the site planning and landscape design a direct extension of the building design;
(b) Make a positive contribution to the surrounding landscape;
(c) Consider requirements (other than procedural requirements) of local zoning laws and laws relating to setbacks, height, historic preservation, and aesthetic qualities of a building;
(d) Identify areas for future building expansion in the architectural and site design concept for all buildings where an expansion need is identified to exist;
(e) Create a landscape design that is a pleasant, dynamic experience for occupants and visitors to Federal facilities and, where appropriate, encourage public access to and stimulate pedestrian traffic around the facilities. Coordinate the landscape design with the architectural characteristics of the building;
(f) Comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
and the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.,
for each project; and
(g) Consider the vulnerability of the facility as well as the security needs of the occupying agencies, consistent with the Interagency Security Committee standards and guidelines.
§ 102-76.25
What standards must Federal agencies meet in providing architectural and interior design services?
Federal agencies must design distinctive and high quality Federal facilities that meet all of the following standards:
(a) Reflect the local architecture in buildings through the use of building form, materials, colors, or detail. Express a quality of permanence in the building interior similar to the building exterior.
(b) Provide individuals with disabilities ready access to, and use of, the facilities in accordance with the standards in § 102-76.65.
(c) Use metric specifications in construction where the metric system is the accepted industry standard, and to the extent that such usage is economically feasible and practical.
(d) Provide for the design of security systems to protect Federal workers and visitors and to safeguard facilities against criminal activity and/or terrorist activity. Security design must support the continuity of Government operations during civil disturbances, natural disasters and other emergency situations.
(e) Design and construct facilities that meet or exceed the energy performance standards applicable to Federal buildings in 10 CFR part 435.
§ 102-76.30
What seismic safety standards must Federal agencies follow in the design and construction of Federal facilities?
Federal agencies must follow the seismic safety standards identified in § 102-80.45 of this chapter.

# National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
§ 102-76.35
What is the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (NEPA)?
The purpose of NEPA is to—
(a) Declare a national policy which will encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment;
(b) Promote efforts which will prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and stimulate the health and welfare of man;
(c) Enrich the understanding of the ecological systems and natural resources important to the Nation; and
(d) Establish a Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ).
§ 102-76.40
To which real property actions does NEPA apply?
NEPA applies to actions that may have an impact on the quality of the human environment, including leasing, acquiring, developing, managing and disposing of real property.
§ 102-76.45
What procedures must Federal agencies follow to implement the requirements of NEPA?
Federal agencies must follow the procedures identified in the Council on Environmental Quality's NEPA implementing regulations, 40 CFR 1500-1508. In addition, Federal agencies must follow the standards that they have promulgated to implement CEQ's regulations.

# Sustainable Development
§ 102-76.50
What is sustainable development?
Sustainable development means integrating the decision-making process across the organization, so that every decision is made to promote the greatest long-term benefits. It means eliminating the concept of waste and building on natural processes and energy flows and cycles; and recognizing the interrelationship of our actions with the natural world.
§ 102-76.55
What sustainable development principles must Federal agencies apply to the siting, design, and construction of new facilities?
In keeping with the objectives of Executive Order 13123, “Greening of the Government Through Efficient Energy Management,” and Executive Order 13101, “Greening of the Government Through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acquisition,” Federal agencies must apply sustainable development principles to the siting, design, and construction of new facilities, which include—
(a) Optimizing site potential;
(b) Minimizing non-renewable energy consumption;
(c) Using environmentally preferable products;
(d) Protecting and conserving water;
(e) Enhancing indoor environmental quality; and
(f) Optimizing operational and maintenance practices.

# Subpart C—Architectural Barriers Act
§ 102-76.60
To which facilities does the Architectural Barriers Act apply?
(a) The Architectural Barriers Act applies to any facility that is intended for use by the public or that may result in the employment or residence therein of individuals with disabilities, which is to be—
(1) Constructed or altered by, or on behalf of, the United States;
(2) Leased in whole or in part by the United States;
(3) Financed in whole or in part by a grant or loan made by the United States, if the building or facility is subject to standards for design, construction, or alteration issued under the authority of the law authorizing such a grant or loan; or
(4) Constructed under the authority of the National Capital Transportation Act of 1960, the National Capital Transportation Act of 1965, or Title III of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation Compact.
(b) The Architectural Barriers Act does not apply to any privately owned residential facility unless leased by the Government for subsidized housing programs, and any facility on a military reservation designed and constructed primarily for use by able bodied military personnel.
§ 102-76.65
What standards must facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act meet?
(a) GSA adopts appendices C and D to 36 CFR part 1191 (ABA Chapters 1 and 2, and Chapters 3 through 10) as the Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standard (ABAAS). Facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than facilities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) must comply with ABAAS as set forth below:
(1) For construction or alteration of facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than Federal lease-construction and other lease actions described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3), respectively, of this section), compliance with ABAAS is required if the construction or alteration commenced after May 8, 2006. If the construction or
alteration of such a facility commenced on or before May 8, 2006, compliance with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) is required.
(2) For Federal lease-construction actions subject to the Architectural Barriers Act, where the Government expressly requires new construction to meet its needs, compliance with ABAAS is required for all such leases awarded on or after June 30, 2006. UFAS compliance is required for all such leases awarded before June 30, 2006.
(3) For all other lease actions subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than those described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), compliance with ABAAS is required for all such leases awarded pursuant to solicitations issued after February 6, 2007. UFAS compliance is required for all such leases awarded pursuant to solicitations issued on or before February 6, 2007.
(b) Residential facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(c) Department of Defense and United States Postal Service facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by those agencies.
[70 FR 67845, Nov. 8, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 52499, Sept. 6, 2006; 72 FR 5943, Feb. 8, 2007]
§ 102-76.70
When are the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
For facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a), the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function are disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations when they exceed 20 percent of the costs of the alterations to the primary function area. If a series of small alterations are made to areas containing a primary function and the costs of any of the alterations considered individually would not result in providing an accessible path of travel to the altered areas, the total costs of the alterations made within the three year period after the initial alteration must be considered when determining whether the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to the altered areas are disproportionate. Facilities for which new leases are entered into must comply with F202.6 of the Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standard without regard to whether the costs of alterations to comply with F202.6 are disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations.
§ 102-76.75
What costs are included in the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
For facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a), the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function include the costs associated with—
(a) Providing an accessible route to connect the altered area and site arrival points, including but not limited to interior and exterior ramps, elevators and lifts, and curb ramps;
(b) Making entrances serving the altered area accessible, including but not limited to widening doorways and installing accessible hardware;
(c) Making restrooms serving the altered area accessible, including, but not limited to, enlarging toilet stalls, installing grab bars and accessible faucet controls, and insulating pipes under lavatories;
(d) Making public telephones serving the altered area accessible, including, but not limited to, placing telephones at an accessible height, and installing amplification devices and TTYs;
(e) Making drinking fountains serving the altered area accessible; and
(f) Making parking spaces serving the altered area accessible.
§ 102-76.80
What is required if the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function are disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations for facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
For facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a), if the costs of alterations to provide an accessible path of travel to an altered area containing a primary function are disproportionate to the costs of the overall alterations, the path of travel must be made accessible to the extent possible without exceeding 20 percent of the costs of the alterations to the primary function area. Priority should be given to those elements that will provide the greatest access in the following order:
(a) An accessible route and an accessible entrance;
(b) At least one accessible restroom for each sex or a single unisex restroom;
(c) Accessible telephones;
(d) Accessible drinking fountains; and
(e) Accessible parking spaces.
§ 102-76.85
What is a primary function area for purposes of providing an accessible route in leased facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
For purposes of providing an accessible route in leased facilities subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a), a primary function area is an area that contains a major activity for which the leased facility is intended. Primary function areas include areas where services are provided to customers or the public, and offices and other work areas in which the activities of the Federal agency using the leased facility are carried out.
§ 102-76.90
Who has the authority to waive or modify the standards in § 102-76.65(a)?
The Administrator of General Services has the authority to waive or modify the standards in § 102-76.65(a) on a case-by-case basis if the agency head or GSA department head submits a request for waiver or modification and the Administrator determines that the waiver or modification is clearly necessary.
§ 102-76.95
What recordkeeping responsibilities do Federal agencies have?
(a) The head of each Federal agency must ensure that documentation is maintained on each contract, grant or loan for the design, construction or alteration of a facility and on each lease for a facility subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a) containing one of the following statements:
(1) The standards have been or will be incorporated in the design, the construction or the alteration.
(2) The grant or loan has been or will be made subject to a requirement that the standards will be incorporated in the design, the construction or the alteration.
(3) The leased facility meets the standards, or has been or will be altered to meet the standards.
(4) The standards have been waived or modified by the Administrator of General Services, and a copy of the waiver or modification is included with the statement.
(b) If a determination is made that a facility is not subject to the standards in § 102-76.65(a) because the Architectural Barriers Act does not apply to the facility, the head of the Federal agency must ensure that documentation is maintained to justify the determination.

# Public Rights-of-Way

# Source:
Sections 76.100, 76.105, 76.110, 76.115 76.120 and 76.125 appear at 89 FR 55078, July 3, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-76.100
What definition applies to this part?
Public right-of-way
means public land acquired for or dedicated to transportation purposes, or other land where there is a legally established right for use by the public for transportation purposes.
§ 102-76.105
What standard must public rights-of-way subject to the Architectural Barriers Act and covered under § 102-76.65(a) meet?
(a) GSA adopts the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190 without additions or
modification as the accessibility standard for pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way. Pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than facilities in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) must meet the accessibility standard for pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way so that pedestrian facilities located in the public right-of-way are readily accessible to and usable by pedestrians with disabilities. Compliance with this accessibility standard is mandatory; provided, however, that this standard does not address existing pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way under the Architectural Barriers Act unless the pedestrian facilities are altered at the discretion of a covered entity.
(b) Residential public rights-of-way subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(c) Department of Defense and United States Postal Service public rights-of-way subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by those agencies.
§ 102-76.110
Where pedestrian facilities subject to the standard in § 102-76.105(a) are altered, must an alteration to a pedestrian facility be connected by a compliant pedestrian access route to an existing pedestrian circulation path?
Yes, pedestrian facilities in public rights-of-way subject to the standard in § 102-76.105(a) that are altered must always be connected by a compliant pedestrian access route to an existing pedestrian circulation path.
§ 102-76.115
Who has the authority to waive or modify the standards in § 102-76.105(a)?
The Administrator of General Services has the authority to waive or modify the accessibility standards for buildings and facilities covered by the Architectural Barriers Act (ABA) in § 102-76.105(a) on a case-by-case basis if an agency head or a GSA department head submits a request for waiver or modification and the Administrator determines that the waiver or modification is clearly necessary. The Administrator of General Services must consult with the Access Board to ensure that the waiver or modification is based on findings of fact and not inconsistent with the ABA.
§ 102-76.120
What recordkeeping responsibilities do Federal agencies have?
(a) The head of each Federal agency must ensure that documentation is maintained on each contract, grant or loan for the design, construction, or alteration of a pedestrian facility in a public right-of-way subject to the standard in § 102-76.105(a) containing one of the following statements:
(1) The standard has been or will be incorporated in the design, the construction, or the alteration.
(2) The grant or loan has been or will be made subject to a requirement that the standard will be incorporated in the design, the construction, or the alteration.
(3) The standard has been waived or modified by the Administrator of General Services, and a copy of the waiver or modification is included with the statement.
(b) If a determination is made that a pedestrian facility in a public right-of-way is not subject to the standard in § 102-76.105(a) because the Architectural Barriers Act does not apply to the facility, the head of the Federal agency must ensure that documentation is maintained to justify the determination.
§ 102-76.125
What portions of this subpart are severable?
All provisions included in this subpart are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is GSA's intention that the remaining provisions will continue in effect.
Pt. 102-77

# PART 102-77—ART IN ARCHITECTURE

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Scope
Sec.
102-77.5
What is the scope of this part?

# Definition
102-77.10
What definition applies to this part?

# Policy
102-77.15
What basic Art in Architecture policy governs Federal agencies?

# Subpart B—Art in Architecture
102-77.20
Who funds the Art in Architecture efforts?
102-77.25
With whom should Federal agencies collaborate when commissioning visual art for Federal buildings?
102-77.30
Do Federal agencies have responsibilities to provide national, regional, and local visibility for Art in Architecture?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121 and 3306.

# Source:
87 FR 5717, Feb. 2, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Scope
§ 102-77.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service, operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services.

# Definition
§ 102-77.10
What definition applies to this part?
Visual art
means works, including, but not limited to, painting, sculpture, architectural or environmental art, time-based media, and works on paper.

# Policy
§ 102-77.15
What basic Art in Architecture policy governs Federal agencies?
Federal agencies must incorporate visual art as an integral part of the total building concept when designing new Federal buildings and when making substantial repairs and alterations to existing Federal buildings, as appropriate. The commissioned art must reflect the national, regional, or local cultural heritages, or any combination of the foregoing, within the United States, and emphasize the work of living American artists, including those in underserved communities.

# Subpart B—Art in Architecture
§ 102-77.20
Who funds the Art in Architecture efforts?
To the extent not prohibited by law, Federal agencies must fund the Art in Architecture efforts by allocating a portion of the estimated cost of constructing or purchasing new Federal buildings or of completing major repairs and alterations of existing buildings. Funding for qualifying projects, including new construction, building acquisitions, and prospectus-level repairs and alterations, must be in a range determined by the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-77.25
With whom should Federal agencies collaborate when commissioning visual art for Federal buildings?
To the maximum extent practicable, Federal agencies should seek the support and involvement of local citizens in commissioning a work of visual art. Federal agencies should collaborate with the chosen artist to commission works of visual art that reflect the cultural, intellectual, and historic interests and values of the community in which the art is to be located. In addition, Federal agencies should work collaboratively with the architect of the building and art professionals in commissioning visual art for Federal buildings. Federal agencies should commission a work of visual art that is diverse in style and media and no official style or media are mandated.
§ 102-77.30
Do Federal agencies have responsibilities to provide national, regional, and local visibility for Art in Architecture?
Yes. Federal agencies should provide Art in Architecture that receives appropriate national, regional, and local visibility to encourage participation by a large, diverse, and equitable group of artists representing a wide variety of types of visual art.
Pt. 102-78

# PART 102-78—HISTORIC PRESERVATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-78.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-78.10
What basic historic preservation policy governs Federal agencies?

# Subpart B—Historic Preservation
102-78.15
What are historic properties?
102-78.20
Are Federal agencies required to identify historic properties?
102-78.25
What is an undertaking?
102-78.30
Who are consulting parties?
102-78.35
Are Federal agencies required to involve consulting parties in their historic preservation activities?
102-78.40
What responsibilities do Federal agencies have when an undertaking adversely affects an historic or cultural property?
102-78.45
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning nomination of properties to the National Register?
102-78.50
What historic preservation services must Federal agencies provide?
102-78.55
For which properties must Federal agencies provide historic preservation services?
102-78.60
When leasing space, are Federal agencies able to give preference to space in historic properties or districts?
102-78.65
What are Federal agencies' historic preservation responsibilities when disposing of real property under their control?
102-78.70
What are an agency's historic preservation responsibilities when disposing of another Federal agency's real property?

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470h-2; 40 U.S.C. 121(c) and 581.

# Source:
70 FR 67848, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-78.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services. The policies in this part are in furtherance of GSA's preservation program under section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470) and apply to properties under the jurisdiction or control of the Administrator and to any Federal agencies operating, maintaining or protecting such properties under a delegation of authority from the Administrator.
§ 102-78.10
What basic historic preservation policy governs Federal agencies?
To protect, enhance and preserve historic and cultural property under their control, Federal agencies must consider the effects of their undertakings on historic and cultural properties and give the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Advisory Council), the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO), and other consulting parties a reasonable opportunity to comment regarding the proposed undertakings.

# Subpart B—Historic Preservation
§ 102-78.15
What are historic properties?
Historic properties are those that are included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places (National Register) as more specifically defined at 36 CFR 800.16.
§ 102-78.20
Are Federal agencies required to identify historic properties?
Yes, Federal agencies must identify all National Register or National Register-eligible historic properties under their control. In addition, Federal agencies must apply National Register Criteria (36 CFR part 63) to properties that have not been previously evaluated for National Register eligibility and that may be affected by the undertakings of Federally sponsored activities.
§ 102-78.25
What is an undertaking?
The term undertaking means a project, activity, or program funded in whole or in part under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of a Federal agency, including those—
(a) Carried out by or on behalf of the agency;
(b) Carried out with Federal financial assistance; or
(c) Requiring a Federal permit, license, or approval.
§ 102-78.30
Who are consulting parties?
As more particularly described in 36 CFR 800.2(c), consulting parties are those parties having consultative roles in the Section 106 process (i.e., Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act), which requires Federal agencies to take into account the effects of their undertakings on historic properties and afford the Council a reasonable opportunity to comment on such undertakings. Specifically, consulting parties include the State Historic Preservation Officer; the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer; Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations; representatives of local governments; applicants for Federal assistance, permits, licenses, and other approvals; other individuals and organizations with a demonstrated interest in the undertaking; and the Advisory Council (if it elects to participate in the consultation).
§ 102-78.35
Are Federal agencies required to involve consulting parties in their historic preservation activities?
Yes, Federal agencies must solicit information from consulting parties to carry out their responsibilities under historic and cultural preservation laws and regulations. Federal agencies must invite the participation of consulting parties through their normal public notification processes.
§ 102-78.40
What responsibilities do Federal agencies have when an undertaking adversely affects a historic or cultural property?
Federal agencies must not perform an undertaking that could alter, destroy, or modify an historic or cultural property until they have consulted with the SHPO and the Advisory Council. Federal agencies must minimize all adverse impacts of their undertakings on historic or cultural properties to the extent that it is feasible and prudent to do so. Federal agencies must follow the specific guidance on the protection of historic and cultural properties in 36 CFR part 800.
§ 102-78.45
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning nomination of properties to the National Register?
Federal agencies must nominate to the National Register all properties under their control determined eligible for inclusion in the National Register.
§ 102-78.50
What historic preservation services must Federal agencies provide?
Federal agencies must provide the following historic preservation services:
(a) Prepare a Historic Building Preservation Plan for each National Register or National Register-eligible property under their control. When approved by consulting parties, such plans become a binding management plan for the property.
(b) Investigate for historic and cultural factors all proposed sites for direct and leased construction.
§ 102-78.55
For which properties must Federal agencies assume historic preservation responsibilities?
Federal agencies must assume historic preservation responsibilities for real property assets under their custody and control. Federal agencies occupying space in buildings under the custody and control of other Federal agencies must obtain approval from the agency having custody and control of the building.
§ 102-78.60
When leasing space, are Federal agencies able to give preference to space in historic properties or districts?
Yes, Executive Order 13006 requires Federal agencies that have a mission requirement to locate in an urban area to give first consideration to space in historic buildings and districts inside central business areas. Agencies may give a price preference of up to 10 percent to space in historic buildings and districts, in accordance with §§ 102-73.120 and 102-73.125 of this chapter.
§ 102-78.65
What are Federal agencies' historic preservation responsibilities when disposing of real property under their control?
Federal agencies must—
(a) To the extent practicable, establish and implement alternatives for historic properties, including adaptive use, that are not needed for current or projected agency purposes. Agencies are required to get the Secretary of the Interior's approval of the plans of transferees of surplus Federally-owned historic properties; and
(b) Review all proposed excess actions to identify any properties listed in or eligible for listing in the National Register. Federal agencies must not perform disposal actions that could result in the alteration, destruction, or modification of an historic or cultural property until Federal agencies have consulted with the SHPO and the Advisory Council.
§ 102-78.70
What are an agency's historic preservation responsibilities when disposing of another Federal agency's real property?
Federal agencies must not accept property declared excess by another Federal agency nor act as an agent for transfer or sale of such properties until the holding agency provides evidence that the Federal agency has met its National Historic Preservation Act responsibilities.
Pt. 102-79

# PART 102-79—ASSIGNMENT AND UTILIZATION OF SPACE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-79.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-79.10
What basic assignment and utilization of space policy governs an Executive agency?

# Subpart B—Assignment and Utilization of Space
102-79.15
What objectives must an Executive agency strive to meet in providing assignment and utilization of space services?

# Assignment of Space
102-79.20
What standard must Executive agencies promote when assigning space?

# Child Care
102-79.25
May Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings for the provision of child care services?

# Fitness Centers
102-79.30
May Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings for establishing fitness centers?
102-79.35
What elements must Federal agencies address in their planning effort for establishing fitness programs?

# Federal Credit Unions
102-79.40
Can Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings to Federal credit unions?
102-79.45
What type of services may Federal agencies provide without charge to Federal credit unions?

# Utilization of Space
102-79.50
What standard must Executive agencies promote in their utilization of space?
102-79.55
Is there a general hierarchy of consideration that agencies must follow in their utilization of space?
102-79.60
Are agencies required to use historic properties available to the agency?

# Outleasing
102-79.65
May Executive agencies outlease space on major public access levels, courtyards and rooftops of public buildings?

# Siting Antennas on Federal Property
102-79.70
May Executive agencies assess fees against other Executive agencies for antenna placements and supporting services?
102-79.75
May Executive agencies assess fees for antenna placements against public service organizations for antenna site outleases on major pedestrian access levels, courtyards, and rooftops of public buildings?
102-79.80
May Executive agencies assess fees for antenna placements against telecommunication service providers for antenna site outleases on major pedestrian access levels, courtyards, and rooftops of public buildings?
102-79.85
What policy must Executive agencies follow concerning the placement of commercial antennas on Federal property?
102-79.90
What criteria must Executive agencies consider when evaluating antenna siting requests?
102-79.95
Who is responsible for the costs associated with providing access to antenna sites?
102-79.100
What must Federal agencies do with antenna siting fees that they collect?

# Integrated Workplace
102-79.105
What is the Integrated Workplace?
102-79.110
What Integrated Workplace policy must Federal agencies strive to promote?
102-79.111
Where may Executive agencies find additional information on Integrated Workplace concepts?

# Public Access Defibrillation Programs
102-79.115
What guidelines must an agency follow if it elects to establish a public access defibrillation program in a Federal facility?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); E.O. 12411, 48 FR 13391, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 155; and E.O. 12512, 50 FR 18453, 3 CFR, 1985 Comp., p. 340.

# Source:
70 FR 67849, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-79.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-79.10
What basic assignment and utilization of space policy governs an Executive agency?
Executive agencies must provide a quality workplace environment that supports program operations, preserves the value of real property assets, meets the needs of the occupant agencies, and provides child care and physical fitness facilities in the workplace when adequately justified. An Executive agency must promote maximum utilization of Federal workspace, consistent with mission requirements, to maximize its value to the Government.

# Subpart B—Assignment and Utilization of Space
§ 102-79.15
What objectives must an Executive agency strive to meet in providing assignment and utilization of space services?
Executive agencies must provide assignment and utilization services that will maximize the value of Federal real property resources and improve the productivity of the workers housed therein.

# Assignment of Space
§ 102-79.20
What standard must Executive agencies promote when assigning space?
Executive agencies must promote the optimum use of space for each assignment at an economical cost to the Government, provide quality workspace that is delivered and occupied in a timely manner, and assign space based on mission requirements.

# Child Care
§ 102-79.25
May Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings for the provision of child care services?
Yes, in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 590, Federal agencies can allot space in Federal buildings to individuals or entities who will provide child care services to Federal employees if such—
(a) Space is available;
(b) Agency determines that such space will be used to provide child care services to children of whom at least 50 percent have one parent or guardian who is a Federal Government employee; and
(c) Agency determines that such individual or entity will give priority for available child care services in such space to Federal employees.

# Fitness Centers
§ 102-79.30
May Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings for establishing fitness centers?
Yes, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7901, Federal agencies can allot space in Federal buildings for establishing fitness programs.
§ 102-79.35
What elements must Federal agencies address in their planning effort for establishing fitness programs?
Federal agencies must address the following elements in their planning effort for establishing fitness programs:
(a) A survey indicating employee interest in the program.
(b) A three-to five-year implementation plan demonstrating long-term
commitment to physical fitness/health for employees.
(c) A health related orientation, including screening procedures, individualized exercise programs, identification of high-risk individuals, and appropriate follow-up activities.
(d) Identification of a person skilled in prescribing exercise to direct the fitness program.
(e) An approach that will consider key health behavior related to degenerative disease, including smoking and nutrition.
(f) A modest facility that includes only the essentials necessary to conduct a program involving cardiovascular and muscular endurance, strength activities, and flexibility.
(g) Provision for equal opportunities for men and women, and all employees, regardless of grade level.

# Federal Credit Unions
§ 102-79.40
Can Federal agencies allot space in Federal buildings to Federal credit unions?
Yes, in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1770, Federal agencies may allot space in Federal buildings to Federal credit unions without charge for rent or services if—
(a) At least 95 percent of the membership of the credit union to be served by the allotment of space is composed of persons who either are presently Federal employees or were Federal employees at the time of admission into the credit union, and members of their families; and
(b) Space is available.
§ 102-79.45
What type of services may Federal agencies provide without charge to Federal credit unions?
Federal agencies may provide without charge to Federal credit union services such as—
(a) Lighting;
(b) Heating and cooling;
(c) Electricity;
(d) Office furniture;
(e) Office machines and equipment;
(f) Telephone service (including installation of lines and equipment and other expenses associated with telephone service); and
(g) Security systems (including installation and other expenses associated with security systems).

# Utilization of Space
§ 102-79.50
What standard must Executive agencies promote in their utilization of space?
Executive agencies, when acquiring or utilizing Federally owned or leased space under Title 40 of the United States Code, must promote efficient utilization of space. Where there is no Federal agency space need, Executive agencies must make every effort to maximize the productive use of vacant space through the issuance of permits, licenses or leases to non-Federal entities to the extent authorized by law. (For vacant property determined excess to agency needs, refer to part 102-75, Real Property Disposal.)
§ 102-79.55
Is there a general hierarchy of consideration that agencies must follow in their utilization of space?
Yes, Federal agencies must—
(a) First utilize space in Government-owned and Government-leased buildings; and
(b) If there is no suitable space in Government-owned and Government-leased buildings, utilize space in buildings under the custody and control of the U.S. Postal Service; and
(c) If there is no suitable space in buildings under the custody and control of the U.S. Postal Service, agencies may acquire real estate by lease, purchase, or construction, as specified in part 102-73 of this chapter.
§ 102-79.60
Are agencies required to use historic properties available to the agency?
Yes, Federal agencies must assume responsibility for the preservation of the historic properties they own or control. Prior to acquiring, constructing or leasing buildings, agencies must use, to the maximum extent feasible, historic properties already owned or leased by the agency (16 U.S.C. 470h-2).

# Outleasing
§ 102-79.65
May Executive agencies outlease space on major public access levels, courtyards and rooftops of public buildings?
Yes. Authority to execute such outleases may be delegated by the Administrator based on authorities provided by the Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act (40 U.S.C. § 581(h)), the proceeds of which are to be deposited into GSA's Federal Buildings Fund. Using such authority, Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, may—
(a) Enter into leases of space on major public access levels, courtyards and rooftops of any public building with persons, firms, or organizations engaged in commercial, cultural, educational, or recreational activities (as defined in 40 U.S.C. 3306);
(b) Establish rental rates for such leased space equivalent to the prevailing commercial rate for comparable space devoted to a similar purpose in the vicinity of the building; and
(c) Use leases that contain terms and conditions that the Administrator deems necessary to promote competition and protect the public interest.

# Siting Antennas on Federal Property
§ 102-79.70
May Executive agencies assess fees against other Executive agencies for antenna placements and supporting services?
Yes. Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, may assess fees for placement of antennas and supporting services against other agencies (that own these antennas) under 40 U.S.C. 586(c) and 40 U.S.C. 121(e). Unless a differing rate has been approved by the Administrator, such fees or charges must approximate commercial charges for comparable space and services (i.e., market rates). The proceeds from such charges or fees must be credited to the appropriation or fund initially charged for providing the space or services. Any amounts in excess of actual operating and maintenance costs must be credited to miscellaneous receipts unless otherwise provided by law. The charges or fees assessed by the Administrator for the placement of antennas and supporting services in GSA-controlled space are generally credited to GSA's Federal Buildings Fund.
§ 102-79.75
May Executive agencies assess fees for antenna placements against public service organizations for antenna site outleases on major pedestrian access levels, courtyards, and rooftops of public buildings?
Yes. Executive agencies in GSA-controlled space, upon approval from GSA, may assess fees for antenna placements against public service organizations under 40 U.S.C. 581(h) and 40 U.S.C. 121(e). Such fees or rental rates must be equivalent to the prevailing commercial rate for comparable space devoted to commercial antenna placements in the vicinity of the public building and the proceeds from such charges or fees must be credited to GSA's Federal Buildings Fund.
§ 102-79.80
May Executive agencies assess fees for antenna placements against telecommunication service providers for antenna site outleases on major pedestrian access levels, courtyards, and rooftops of public buildings?
Yes. GSA, or other Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, may charge fees based on market value to telecommunication service providers for antenna placements in public buildings. Market value should be equivalent to the prevailing commercial rate for comparable space for commercial antenna placements in the vicinity of the public building. Such fees must be credited to GSA's Federal Buildings Fund.
§ 102-79.85
What policy must Executive agencies follow concerning the placement of commercial antennas on Federal property?
Executive agencies will make antenna sites available on a fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory basis. Collocation of antennas should be encouraged where there are multiple antenna siting requests for the same location. In cases where this is not feasible and space availability precludes accommodating all antenna siting applicants, competitive procedures may be used. This should be done in accordance with applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations, and consistent
with national security concerns. In making antenna sites available, agencies must avoid electromagnetic intermodulations and interferences. To the maximum extent practicable, when placing antennas for the provision of telecommunication services to the Federal Government, agencies should use redundant and physically separate entry points into the building and physically diverse local network facilities in accordance with guidance issued by the Office of Management and Budget.
§ 102-79.90
What criteria must Executive agencies consider when evaluating antenna siting requests?
When evaluating antenna siting requests, Executive agencies must consider issues such as—
(a) Public health and safety with respect to the antenna installation and maintenance;
(b) Aesthetics;
(c) Effects on historic districts, sites, buildings, monuments, structures, or other objects pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, and implementing regulations;
(d) Protection of natural and cultural resources (e.g., National Parks and Wilderness areas, National Wildlife Refuge systems);
(e) Compliance with the appropriate level of review and documentation as necessary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and implementing regulations of each Federal department and agency responsible for the antenna siting project, and the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and other relevant departments and agencies;
(f) Compliance with the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) guidelines for radiofrequency exposure, ET Docket No. 93-62, entitled “Guidelines for Evaluating the Environmental Effects of Radiofrequency Radiation,” issued August 1, 1996, and any other order on reconsideration relating to radiofrequency guidelines and their enforcement. These are updated guidelines for meeting health concerns that reflect the latest scientific knowledge in this area, and are supported by Federal health and safety agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the Food and Drug Administration; and
(g) Any requirements of the Federal agency managing the facility, FCC, Federal Aviation Administration, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and other relevant departments and agencies. To the maximum extent practicable, when placing antennas for the provision of telecommunication services to the Federal Government, agencies should use redundant and physically separate entry points into the building and physically diverse local network facilities in accordance with guidance issued by the Office of Management and Budget. In addition, the National Capital Planning Commission should be consulted for siting requests within the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area.
§ 102-79.95
Who is responsible for the costs associated with providing access to antenna sites?
The telecommunications service provider is responsible for any reasonable costs to Federal agencies associated with providing access to antenna sites, including obtaining appropriate clearance of provider personnel for access to buildings or land deemed to be security sensitive as is done with service contractor personnel. OMB Circular A-25, entitled “User Charges,” revised July 8, 1993, provides guidelines that agencies should use to assess fees for Government services and for the sale or use of Government property or resources. For antenna sites on non-GSA property, see also the Department of Commerce Report on “Improving Rights-of-Way Management Across Federal Lands: A Roadmap for Greater Broadband Deployment” (April 2004) beginning at page 26. Under 40 U.S.C. 1314, GSA is covered in granting easements and permits to support the installation of antennas and cabling across raw land in support of constructing new and improving existing telecommunication infrastructures provided that such installation does not negatively impact on the Government.
§ 102-79.100
What must Federal agencies do with antenna siting fees that they collect?
The account into which an antenna siting fee is to be deposited depends on the authority under which the antenna site is made available and the fee assessed. For GSA-controlled property outleased under 40 U.S.C. 581(h) or section 412 of Division H of public law 108-447, the fee is to be deposited into GSA's Federal Building Fund. For surplus property outleased under 40 U.S.C. 543, the fee is to be deposited in accordance with the provisions of Subchapter IV of Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code. For siting fees collected under other statutory authorities, the fees might be deposited into miscellaneous receipts, an account of the landholding agency, or as otherwise provided by law. Federal agencies should consult with their agency's legal advisors before depositing antenna proceed from sites on agency-controlled Federal property.

# Integrated Workplace
§ 102-79.105
What is the Integrated Workplace?
The Integrated Workplace, developed by the GSA Office of Governmentwide Policy, is a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to developing workspace and work strategies that best support an organization's strategic business goals and work processes, and have the flexibility to accommodate the changing needs of the occupants and the organization. Integrated Workplace concepts support the objectives of Executive Order 13327, “Federal Real Property Asset Management,” which calls for the enhancement of Federal agency productivity through an improved working environment.
§ 102-79.110
What Integrated Workplace policy must Federal agencies strive to promote?
Federal agencies must strive to design work places that—
(a) Are developed using sustainable development concepts (see § 102-76.55);
(b) Align with the organization's mission and strategic plan;
(c) Serve the needs and work practices of the occupants;
(d) Can be quickly and inexpensively adjusted by the user to maximize his or her productivity and satisfaction;
(e) Are comfortable, efficient, and technologically advanced and allow people to accomplish their work in the most efficient way;
(f) Meet the office's needs and can justify its cost through the benefits gained;
(g) Are developed with an integrated building systems approach;
(h) Are based on a life cycle cost analysis that considers both facility and human capital costs over a substantial time period; and
(i) Support alternative workplace arrangements, including telecommuting, hoteling, virtual offices, and other distributive work arrangements (see part 102-74, subpart F—Telework).
§ 102-79.111
Where may Executive agencies find additional information on Integrated Workplace concepts?
The GSA Office of Governmentwide Policy provides additional guidance in its publication entitled “Innovative Workplace Strategies.”

# Public Access Defibrillation Programs
§ 102-79.115
What guidelines must an agency follow if it elects to establish a public access defibrillation program in a Federal facility?
Federal agencies electing to establish a public access defibrillation program in a Federal facility must follow the guidelines, entitled “Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities,” which can be obtained from the Office of Governmentwide Policy, Office of Real Property (MP), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405.
Pt. 102-80

# PART 102-80—SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-80.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-80.10
What are the basic safety and environmental management policies for real property?

# Subpart B—Safety and Environmental Management

# Asbestos
102-80.15
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the assessment and management of asbestos?

# Radon
102-80.20
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the abatement of radon?

# Indoor Air Quality
102-80.25
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the management of indoor air quality?

# Lead
102-80.30
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning lead?

# Hazardous Materials and Wastes
102-80.35
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the monitoring of hazardous materials and wastes?

# Underground Storage Tanks
102-80.40
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the management of underground storage tanks?

# Seismic Safety
102-80.45
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning seismic safety in Federal facilities?

# Risks and Risk Reduction Strategies
102-80.50
Are Federal agencies responsible for identifying/estimating risks and for appropriate risk reduction strategies?
102-80.55
Are Federal agencies responsible for managing the execution of risk reduction projects?

# Facility Assessments
102-80.60
Are Federal agencies responsible for performing facility assessments?

# Incident Investigation
102-80.65
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the investigation of incidents, such as fires, accidents, injuries, and environmental incidents?

# Responsibility for Informing Tenants
102-80.70
Are Federal agencies responsible for informing their tenants of the condition and management of their facility safety and environment?

# Assessment of Environmental Issues
102-80.75
Who assesses environmental issues in Federal construction and lease construction projects?

# Subpart C—Accident and Fire Prevention
102-80.80
With what general accident and fire prevention policy must Federal agencies comply?

# State and Local Codes
102-80.85
Are Federally owned and leased buildings exempt from State and local code requirements in fire protection?

# Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992
102-80.90
Is the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-522) relevant to fire protection engineering?
102-80.95
Is the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 applicable to all Federal agencies?

# Automatic Sprinkler Systems
102-80.100
What performance objective should an automatic sprinkler system be capable of meeting?

# Equivalent Level of Safety Analysis
102-80.105
What information must be included in an equivalent level of safety analysis?
102-80.110
What must an equivalent level of safety analysis indicate?
102-80.115
Is there more than one option for establishing that an equivalent level of safety exists?
102-80.120
What analytical and empirical tools should be used to support the life safety equivalency evaluation?
102-80.125
Who has the responsibility for determining the acceptability of each equivalent level of safety analysis?
102-80.130
Who must perform the equivalent level of safety analysis?
102-80.135
Who is a qualified fire protection engineer?

# Room of Origin
102-80.140
What is meant by “room of origin”?

# Flashover
102-80.145
What is meant by “flashover”?

# Reasonable Worst Case Fire Scenario
102-80.150
What is meant by “reasonable worst case fire scenario”?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c) and 581-593.

# Source:
70 FR 67852, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-80.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services. The responsibilities for safety and environmental management under this part are intended to apply to GSA or those Federal agencies operating in GSA space pursuant to a GSA delegation of authority.
§ 102-80.10
What are the basic safety and environmental management policies for real property?
The basic safety and environmental management policies for real property are that Federal agencies must—
(a) Provide for a safe and healthful work environment for Federal employees and the visiting public;
(b) Protect Federal real and personal property;
(c) Promote mission continuity;
(d) Provide reasonable safeguards for emergency forces if an incident occurs;
(e) Assess risk;
(f) Make decision makers aware of risks; and
(g) Act promptly and appropriately in response to risk.

# Subpart B—Safety and Environmental Management

# Asbestos
§ 102-80.15
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the assessment and management of asbestos?
Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning the assessment and management of asbestos:
(a) Inspect and assess buildings for the presence and condition of asbestos-containing materials. Space to be leased must be free of all asbestos containing materials, except undamaged asbestos flooring in the space or undamaged boiler or pipe insulation outside the space, in which case an asbestos management program conforming to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) guidance must be implemented.
(b) Manage in-place asbestos that is in good condition and not likely to be disturbed.
(c) Abate damaged asbestos and asbestos likely to be disturbed. Federal agencies must perform a pre-alteration asbestos assessment for activities that may disturb asbestos.
(d) Not use asbestos in new construction, renovation/modernization or repair of their owned or leased space. Unless approved by GSA, Federal agencies must not obtain space with asbestos through purchase, exchange, transfer, or lease, except as identified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Communicate all written and oral asbestos information about the leased space to tenants.

# Radon
§ 102-80.20
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the abatement of radon?
Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning the abatement of radon in space when radon levels exceed current EPA standards:
(a) Retest abated areas and make lessors retest, as required, abated areas to adhere to EPA standards.
(b) Test non-public water sources (in remote areas for projects such as border stations) for radon according to EPA guidance. Radon levels that exceed current applicable EPA standards must be mitigated. Federal agencies must retest, as required, to adhere to EPA standards.

# Indoor Air Quality
§ 102-80.25
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the management of indoor air quality?
Federal agencies must assess indoor air quality of buildings as part of their safety and environmental facility assessments. Federal agencies must respond to tenant complaints on air quality and take appropriate corrective action where air quality does not meet applicable standards.

# Lead
§ 102-80.30
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning lead?
Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning lead in buildings:
(a) Test space for lead-based paint in renovation projects that require sanding, welding or scraping painted surfaces.
(b) Not remove lead based paint from surfaces in good condition.
(c) Test all painted surfaces for lead in proposed or existing child care centers.
(d) Abate lead-based paint found in accordance with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Lead-Based Paint Guidelines, available by writing to HUD USER, P.O. Box 6091, Rockville, MD 20850.
(e) Test potable water for lead in all drinking water outlets.
(f) Take corrective action when lead levels exceed the HUD Guidelines.

# Hazardous Materials and Wastes
§ 102-80.35
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the monitoring of hazardous materials and wastes?
Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the monitoring of hazardous materials and wastes are as follows:
(a) Monitor the transport, use, and disposition of hazardous materials and waste in buildings to provide for compliance with GSA, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Department of Transportation, EPA, and applicable State and local requirements. In addition to those operating in GSA space pursuant to a delegation of authority, tenants in GSA space must comply with these requirements.
(b) In leased space, include in all agreements with the lessor requirements that hazardous materials stored in leased space are kept and maintained according to applicable Federal, State, and local environmental regulations.

# Underground Storage Tanks
§ 102-80.40
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the management of underground storage tanks?
Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning the management of underground storage tanks in real property:
(a) Register, manage and close underground storage tanks, including heating oil and fuel oil tanks, in accordance with GSA, EPA, and applicable State and local requirements.
(b) Require the party responsible for tanks they use but do not own to follow these requirements and to be responsible for the cost of compliance.

# Seismic Safety
§ 102-80.45
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning seismic safety in Federal facilities?
Federal agencies must follow the standards issued by the Interagency Committee on Seismic Safety in Construction (ICSSC) as the minimum level acceptable for use by Federal agencies in assessing the seismic safety of their owned and leased buildings and in mitigating unacceptable seismic risks in those buildings.

# Risks and Risk Reduction Strategies
§ 102-80.50
Are Federal agencies responsible for identifying/estimating risks and for appropriate risk reduction strategies?
Yes, Federal agencies must identify and estimate safety and environmental management risks and appropriate risk reduction strategies for buildings. Federal agencies occupying as well as operating buildings must identify any safety and environmental management risks and report or correct the situation, as appropriate. Federal agencies must use the applicable national codes and standards as a guide for their building operations.
§ 102-80.55
Are Federal agencies responsible for managing the execution of risk reduction projects?
Yes, Federal agencies must manage the execution of risk reduction projects in buildings they operate. Federal
agencies must identify and take appropriate action to eliminate hazards and regulatory noncompliance.

# Facility Assessments
§ 102-80.60
Are Federal agencies responsible for performing facility assessments?
Yes, Federal agencies must evaluate facilities to comply with GSA's safety and environmental program and applicable Federal, State and local environmental laws and regulations. Federal agencies should conduct these evaluations in accordance with schedules that are compatible with repair and alteration and leasing operations.

# Incident Investigation
§ 102-80.65
What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the investigation of incidents, such as fires, accidents, injuries, and environmental incidents?
Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning the investigation of incidents, such as fires, accidents, injuries, and environmental incidents in buildings they operate:
(a) Investigate all incidents regardless of severity.
(b) Form Boards of Investigation for incidents resulting in serious injury, death, or significant property losses.

# Responsibility for Informing Tenants
§ 102-80.70
Are Federal agencies responsible for informing their tenants of the condition and management of their facility safety and environment?
Yes, Federal agencies must inform their tenants of the condition and management of their facility safety and environment. Agencies operating GSA buildings must report any significant facility safety or environmental concerns to GSA.

# Assessment of Environmental Issues
§ 102-80.75
Who assesses environmental issues in Federal construction and lease construction projects?
Federal agencies must assess required environmental issues throughout planning and project development so that the environmental impacts of a project are considered during the decision making process.

# Subpart C—Accident and Fire Prevention
§ 102-80.80
With what general accident and fire prevention policy must Federal agencies comply?
Federal agencies must—
(a) Comply with the occupational safety and health standards established in the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-596); Executive Order 12196; 29 CFR part 1960; and applicable safety and environmental management criteria identified in this part;
(b) Not expose occupants and visitors to unnecessary risks;
(c) Provide safeguards that minimize personal harm, property damage, and impairment of Governmental operations, and that allow emergency forces to accomplish their missions effectively;
(d) Follow accepted fire prevention practices in operating and managing buildings;
(e) To the maximum extent feasible, comply with one of the nationally recognized model building codes and with other nationally-recognized codes in their construction or alteration of each building in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3312; and
(f) Use the applicable national codes and standards as a guide for their building operations.

# State and Local Codes
§ 102-80.85
Are Federally owned and leased buildings exempt from State and local code requirements in fire protection?
Federally owned buildings are generally exempt from State and local code requirements in fire protection; however, in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3312, each building constructed or altered by a Federal agency must be constructed or altered, to the maximum extent feasible, in compliance with one of the nationally recognized model building codes and with other nationally recognized codes. Leased buildings
are subject to local code requirements and inspection.

# Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992
§ 102-80.90
Is the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-522) relevant to fire protection engineering?
Yes, the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-522) requires sprinklers or an equivalent level of safety in certain types of Federal employee office buildings, Federal employee housing units, and Federally assisted housing units (15 U.S.C. 2227).
§ 102-80.95
Is the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 applicable to all Federal agencies?
Yes, the Fire Administration Authorization Act applies to all Federal agencies and all Federally owned and leased buildings in the United States.

# Automatic Sprinkler Systems
§ 102-80.100
What performance objective should an automatic sprinkler system be capable of meeting?
The performance objective of the automatic sprinkler system is that it must be capable of protecting human lives. Sprinklers should be capable of controlling the spread of fire and its effects beyond the room of origin. A functioning sprinkler system should activate prior to the onset of flashover.

# Equivalent Level of Safety Analysis
§ 102-80.105
What information must be included in an equivalent level of safety analysis?
The equivalent level of life safety evaluation is to be performed by a qualified fire protection engineer. The analysis should include a narrative discussion of the features of the building structure, function, operational support systems and occupant activities that impact fire protection and life safety. Each analysis should describe potential reasonable worst case fire scenarios and their impact on the building occupants and structure. Specific issues that must be addressed include rate of fire growth, type and location of fuel items, space layout, building construction, openings and ventilation, suppression capability, detection time, occupant notification, occupant reaction time, occupant mobility, and means of egress.
§ 102-80.110
What must an equivalent level of safety analysis indicate?
To be acceptable, the analysis must indicate that the existing and/or proposed safety systems in the building provide a period of time equal to or greater than the amount of time available for escape in a similar building complying with the Fire Administration Authorization Act. In conducting these analyses, the capability, adequacy, and reliability of all building systems impacting fire growth, occupant knowledge of the fire, and time required to reach a safety area will have to be examined. In particular, the impact of sprinklers on the development of hazardous conditions in the area of interest will have to be assessed.
§ 102-80.115
Is there more than one option for establishing that an equivalent level of safety exists?
Yes, the following are three options for establishing that an equivalent level of safety exists:
(a) In the first option, the margin of safety provided by various alternatives is compared to that obtained for a code complying building with complete sprinkler protection. The margin of safety is the difference between the available safe egress time and the required safe egress time. Available safe egress time is the time available for evacuation of occupants to an area of safety prior to the onset of untenable conditions in occupied areas or the egress pathways. The required safe egress time is the time required by occupants to move from their positions at the start of the fire to areas of safety. Available safe egress times would be developed based on analysis of a number of assumed reasonable worst case fire scenarios including assessment of a code complying fully sprinklered building. Additional analysis would be used to determine the expected required safe egress times for the various scenarios. If the margin of
safety plus an appropriate safety factor is greater for an alternative than for the fully sprinklered building, then the alternative should provide an equivalent level of safety.
(b) A second alternative is applicable for typical office and residential scenarios. In these situations, complete sprinkler protection can be expected to prevent flashover in the room of fire origin, limit fire size to no more than 1 megawatt (950 Btu/sec), and prevent flames from leaving the room of origin. The times required for each of these conditions to occur in the area of interest must be determined. The shortest of these three times would become the time available for escape. The difference between the minimum time available for escape and the time required for evacuation of building occupants would be the target margin of safety. Various alternative protection strategies would have to be evaluated to determine their impact on the times at which hazardous conditions developed in the spaces of interest and the times required for egress. If a combination of fire protection systems provides a margin of safety equal to or greater than the target margin of safety, then the combination could be judged to provide an equivalent level of safety.
(c) As a third option, other technical analysis procedures, as approved by the responsible agency head, can be used to show equivalency.
§ 102-80.120
What analytical and empirical tools should be used to support the life safety equivalency evaluation?
Analytical and empirical tools, including fire models and grading schedules such as the Fire Safety Evaluation System (Alternative Approaches to Life Safety, NEPA 101A) should be used to support the life safety equivalency evaluation. If fire modeling is used as part of an analysis, an assessment of the predictive capabilities of the fire models must be included. This assessment should be conducted in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials Standard Guide for Evaluating the Predictive Capability of Fire Models (ASTM E 1355).
§ 102-80.125
Who has the responsibility for determining the acceptability of each equivalent level of safety analysis?
The head of the agency responsible for physical improvements in the facility or providing Federal assistance or a designated representative will determine the acceptability of each equivalent level of safety analysis. The determination of acceptability must include a review of the fire protection engineer's qualifications, the appropriateness of the fire scenarios for the facility, and the reasonableness of the assumed maximum probable loss. Agencies should maintain a record of each accepted equivalent level of safety analysis and provide copies to fire departments or other local authorities for use in developing pre-fire plans.
§ 102-80.130
Who must perform the equivalent level of safety analysis?
A qualified fire protection engineer must perform the equivalent level of safety analysis.
§ 102-80.135
Who is a qualified fire protection engineer?
A qualified fire protection engineer is defined as an individual with a thorough knowledge and understanding of the principles of physics and chemistry governing fire growth, spread, and suppression, meeting one of the following criteria:
(a) An engineer having an undergraduate or graduate degree from a college or university offering a course of study in fire protection or fire safety engineering, plus a minimum of 4 years work experience in fire protection engineering.
(b) A professional engineer (P.E. or similar designation) registered in Fire Protection Engineering.
(c) A professional engineer (P.E. or similar designation) registered in a related engineering discipline and holding Member grade status in the International Society of Fire Protection Engineers.

# Room of Origin
§ 102-80.140
What is meant by “room of origin”?
Room of origin means an area of a building where a fire can be expected to start. Typically, the size of the area will be determined by the walls, floor, and ceiling surrounding the space. However, this could lead to unacceptably large areas in the case of open plan office space or similar arrangements. Therefore, the maximum allowable fire area should be limited to 200 m2 (2000 ft2), including intervening spaces. In the case of residential units, an entire apartment occupied by one tenant could be considered as the room of origin to the extent it did not exceed the 200 m2 (2000 ft2) limitation.

# Flashover
§ 102-80.145
What is meant by “flashover”?
Flashover means fire conditions in a confined area where the upper gas layer temperature reaches 600 °C (1100 °F) and the heat flux at floor level exceeds 20 kW/m2 (1.8 Btu/ft2/sec).

# Reasonable Worst Case Fire Scenario
§ 102-80.150
What is meant by “reasonable worst case fire scenario”?
Reasonable worst case fire scenario means a combination of an ignition source, fuel items, and a building location likely to produce a fire that would have a significant adverse impact on the building and its occupants. The development of reasonable worst case scenarios must include consideration of types and forms of fuels present (e.g., furniture, trash, paper, chemicals), potential fire ignition locations (e.g., bedroom, office, closet, corridor), occupant capabilities (e.g., awake, intoxicated, mentally or physically impaired), numbers of occupants, detection and suppression system adequacy and reliability, and fire department capabilities. A quantitative analysis of the probability of occurrence of each scenario and combination of events will be necessary.
Pt. 102-81

# PART 102-81—PHYSICAL SECURITY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-81.5
What does this part cover?
102-81.10
What basic physical security policy governs Federal agencies?
102-81.15
What are the governing authorities for this part?
102-81.20
Who must comply with this part?

# Subpart B—Physical Security
102-81.25
Who is responsible for implementing, maintaining, and upgrading physical security standards in each Federal facility and on Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA?
102-81.30
Are there any special considerations for existing Federal facilities and Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA?
102-81.31
Are there any special considerations for leased facilities or new construction?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c) and 581; 6 U.S.C. 232; Pub. L. 109-13, 119 Stat. 302; and Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12.

# Source:
87 FR 51919, Aug. 24, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-81.5
What does this part cover?
This part covers physical security in and at nonmilitary federally owned and leased facilities and grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), including those facilities and grounds that have been delegated by the Administrator of General Services.
Federal facility
means all or any part of any federally owned or leased building, physical structure or associated support infrastructure (
e.g.,
parking facilities and utilities) that is under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA.
Federal grounds
mean all or any part of any area outside a Federal facility that is under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA.
§ 102-81.10
What basic physical security policy governs Federal agencies?
The Interagency Security Committee (ISC) is responsible for developing and evaluating physical security standards for nonmilitary Federal facilities. In
accordance with E.O. 12977, the ISC sets policies and recommendations that govern physical security at Federal facilities and on Federal grounds occupied by Federal employees for nonmilitary activities. This includes the ISC Risk Management Process Standard (the RMP Standard) that Federal agencies use in the protection of the real property they occupy, including the protection of persons on the property. The goal of the RMP Standard is a level of protection commensurate with the level of risk. ISC policies do not supersede other laws, regulations, and Executive orders that are intended to protect unique assets.
§ 102-81.15
What are the governing authorities for this part?
The governing authorities are as follows:
(a) 40 U.S.C. 121(c) and 581.
(b) E.O. 12977.
(c) E.O. 13286, sec. 23.
(d) 6 U.S.C. 232.
(e) Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12.
(f) REAL ID Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-13).
§ 102-81.20
Who must comply with this part?
Each agency occupying a Federal facility or Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA, including those facilities and grounds that have been delegated by the Administrator of General Services, for nonmilitary activities must comply with this part, except where the Director of National Intelligence determines that compliance would jeopardize intelligence sources and methods or the Secretary of Energy determines that compliance would conflict with the authorities of the Secretary of Energy over Restricted Data and Special Nuclear Material under, among others, sections 141, 145, 146, 147, and 161 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Department of Energy Organization Act, or any other statute. In situations where a Federal facility is occupied by multiple Federal agencies for both military and nonmilitary activities, and each such occupancy is substantial, those occupants will coordinate on the physical security of the facility.

# Subpart B—Physical Security
§ 102-81.25
Who is responsible for implementing, maintaining, and upgrading physical security standards in each Federal facility and on Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA?
Each agency occupying a Federal facility or Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA, including those facilities and grounds that have been delegated by the Administrator of General Services, for nonmilitary activities is responsible for implementing, maintaining, and upgrading the physical security standards, except where the Director of National Intelligence determines that compliance would jeopardize intelligence sources and methods or the Secretary of Energy determines that compliance would conflict with the authorities of the Secretary of Energy over Restricted Data and Special Nuclear Material under, among others, sections 141, 145, 146, 147, and 161 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Department of Energy Organization Act, or any other statute. An occupant agency, if it is the only Federal occupant agency in the building, or the Facility Security Committee (FSC), as applicable, uses the facility security assessment reports they receive from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security—Federal Protective Service to inform deliberations regarding recommended countermeasures and other security-related actions. GSA will facilitate the implementation of the countermeasures or other actions after occupant agency or FSC approval, as applicable, and commitment of each occupant agency to pay its
pro rata
share of the cost.
§ 102-81.30
Are there any special considerations for existing Federal facilities and Federal grounds under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA?
No, the RMP Standard applies to existing nonmilitary Federal facilities as part of the periodic risk assessment process. The security organization responsible for the Federal facility or
Federal grounds will conduct a periodic risk assessment and recommend countermeasures and design features to be implemented at the Federal facility or on the Federal grounds. The FSC will determine whether the recommended countermeasures will be implemented or if risk will be accepted. The design and implementation of approved countermeasures at existing facilities must comply with applicable laws, regulations, and Executive orders. For approved countermeasures that cannot be implemented immediately, a plan to phase in countermeasures and achieve compliance must be instituted and documented in accordance with the RMP Standard. In some cases, the implementation of countermeasures must be delayed until renovations or modernization programs occur.
§ 102-81.31
Are there any special considerations for leased facilities or new construction?
Yes. GSA will coordinate with the occupant agency and the security organization responsible for the Federal facility or Federal grounds when determining the applicable physical security clauses to use in the procurement package.
Pt. 102-82

# PART 102-82—UTILITY SERVICES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-82.5
What does this part cover?
102-82.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
102-82.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
102-82.20
To whom do “we,” “you,” and their variants refer?
102-82.25
How do we request a deviation from the provisions of this part?

# Subpart B—Utility Services
102-82.30
What authority must my agency have in order to procure utility service(s)?
102-82.35
Can Executive agencies enter into contracts for utility services?
102-82.40
What are Executive agencies' rate intervention responsibilities?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c) and 40 U.S.C. 501.

# Source:
85 FR 5903, Feb. 3, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-82.5
What does this part cover?
This part covers the procurement and management of public utility services. It does not cover utilities that are provided as part of a lease. For more information on the procurement of utility services refer to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in 48 CFR part 41. For more information on the management of Utility Services, refer to 40 U.S.C. 501.
§ 102-82.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
The authorities for the regulations in this part are:
(a) 40 U.S.C. 121(c); and
(b) 40 U.S.C. 501.
§ 102-82.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
All Executive agencies procuring, managing, or supplying utility services under Title 40 of the United States Code, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), Department of Defense, Department of Energy, and those agencies operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services must comply with the provisions of this part. For information on a utility services delegation of authority, refer to § 102-72.100 of this chapter.
§ 102-82.20
To whom do “we,” “you,” and their variants refer?
Unless otherwise indicated, use of pronouns “we,” “you,” and their variants throughout this part refer to an Executive agency. Refer to part 102-71 of this chapter for the definition of Executive agency.
§ 102-82.25
How do we request a deviation from the provisions of this part?
Refer to §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter for information on how to obtain a deviation from this part.

# Subpart B—Utility Services
§ 102-82.30
What authority must my agency have in order to procure utility service(s)?
If you do not have a delegation of authority issued by GSA to procure utility services, or independent authority for such procurements, you cannot procure utility services. The Secretary of Defense is independently authorized to take such actions without a delegation from GSA, when the Secretary determines such actions to be in the best interests of national security. For more information on a utility services delegation of authority refer to §§ 102-72.100 and 102-72.105 of this chapter.
§ 102-82.35
Can Executive agencies enter into contracts for utility services?
Executive agencies, operating under a utility services delegation from GSA, or the Secretary of Defense, when the Secretary determines it to be in the best interests of national security, may enter into contracts for utility services (such as commodities and utility rebate programs), pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the delegation and in accordance with FAR part 41. FAR part 41 requires that agencies provide or procure from sources of supply that are the most advantageous to the Federal Government in terms of economy, efficiency, reliability, or quality of service; while 40 U.S.C. 501(c) requires that agencies provide or procure such services with due regard to the mission responsibilities of the agencies concerned. For information on utility services delegation of authority refer to part 102-72 of this chapter. For additional information on contracts for utility services, search on the topics Utility or Energy on the Acquisition Gateway,
http://www.gsa.gov
.
§ 102-82.40
What are Executive agencies' rate intervention responsibilities?
Unless otherwise authorized by law, absent a delegation from GSA, Executive agencies must not engage in the types of representation referenced at 40 U.S.C. 501(c), Services for Executive agencies. The Secretary of Defense is independently authorized to take such actions without a delegation from GSA, when the Secretary determines such actions to be in the best interests of national security. Refer to part 102-71 of this chapter for definitions of Executive agencies and state. For information on delegation of authority refer to part 102-72 of this chapter.
Pt. 102-83

# PART 102-83—LOCATION OF SPACE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
102-83.05
What does this part cover?
102-83.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
102-83.15
Which Federal agencies must comply with these provisions?
102-83.20
How does an agency request a deviation from the provisions of this part?
102-83.25
Intentionally Omitted

# Subpart B—Location of Space
102-83.30
What basic location of space policy governs a Federal agency?
102-83.35
Is there a general hierarchy of consideration that agencies must follow in their utilization of space?
102-83.40
What is a delineated area?
102-83.45
What is a Core-Based Statistical Area?
102-83.50
How is a Core-Based Statistical Area defined?
102-83.55
What is a rural area?
102-83.60
What is an urban area?
102-83.65
What is a principal city?
102-83.70
What are centralized community business areas and centralized business districts?
102-83.75
What is environmental justice?
102-83.80
What is equitable development?
102-83.85
In addition to Federal agency mission, security and program requirements, what other factors and principles must agencies consider when establishing a potential delineated area?
102-83.90
What hierarchy of geographic consideration must agencies apply to location decisions for new Federal facilities or leased locations?
102-83.95
How must agencies consult and engage with local officials to comply with the consultation and engagement elements of part 102-83?
102-83.100
What flexibility do Federal agencies have to implement part 102-83 in high cost areas?
102-83.105
Are Federal agencies required to give preference to historic properties when acquiring leased space?
102-83.110
Does GSA provide assistance to Federal agencies by consulting and engaging with local officials to establish recommended delineated areas?
102-83.115
Are Federal agencies required to consider whether the CBA or other areas recommended by local officials will provide for adequate competition when acquiring leased space?
102-83.120
What information and data must agencies provide to the Administrator of General Services, or other acquiring agency head, to comply with the provisions of this part?
102-83.125
Who must approve the final delineated area?
102-83.130
When is written justification for a delineated area in urban areas required?
102-83.135
How will GSA negotiate changes to the final delineated area with requesting agencies?
102-83.140
Where may Federal agencies appeal GSA decisions and recommendations concerning the delineated area?
102-83.145
Do these regulations apply in GSA's National Capital Region?

# Subpart C—Severability
102-83.150
What portions of this part are severable?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 113(d), 121(c), 581(c)(1), 584, 585, and 901-905; section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. 18 of 1950, 15 FR 3177, 64 Stat. 1270 (40 U.S.C. 301 note); 28 U.S.C. 462(f); 7 U.S.C. 2204b; 41 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.;
54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.;
E.O. 12072, 43 FR 36869, 3 CFR, 1978., p. 213; and E.O. 13006, 61 FR 26071, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 195.

# Source:
FMR Case 2023-102-1, 89 FR 29269, Apr. 22, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-83.05
What does this part cover?
This part covers GSA's considerations when making location decisions for Federal agencies in both Federally owned and leased space and the considerations of those Federal agencies operating under or subject to the real property authorities of the Administrator of General Services (Administrator), including those using delegated real property authority, when making their own location decisions. It directs practices that foster the policies and programs of the Federal Government and improve the management, efficiency, and effectiveness of Government activities.
§ 102-83.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
The authorities for this regulation are as follows:
(a) Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2204b-1), requires executive agencies to give first priority to locating in rural areas.
(b) Federal Urban Land Use Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 901-905), requires GSA and other Federal agencies to consult and engage with the unit of general local government exercising zoning and land use jurisdiction. To the greatest extent possible, GSA must coordinate Federal projects with local planning agencies to be in accordance with zoning, land use practices and planning and development objectives.
(c) Competition in Contracting Act of 1984, as amended, (41 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.
) (CICA), requires executive agencies to consider whether the delineated area will provide for adequate competition when acquiring leased space.
(d) 40 U.S.C. 113(d) authorizes the Administrator to provide space to the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol upon their request.
(e) 40 U.S.C. 121(c) authorizes the Administrator to issue regulations that the Administrator considers necessary to carry out the Administrator's functions under subtitle I of title 40 of the United States Code.
(f) National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.,
encourages, among other things, the public and private preservation and utilization of all usable elements of the Nation's historic built environment.
(g) 40 U.S.C. 584 authorizes the Administrator to assign and reassign space for an executive agency in any Federal Government-owned or leased building.
(h) 40 U.S.C. 581(c)(1) authorizes the Administrator to acquire, by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, real estate and interests in real estate.
(i) 40 U.S.C. 585 authorizes the Administrator to enter into a lease agreement for the accommodation of a federal agency in a building or improvement that is in existence or being erected by the lessor to accommodate the federal agency, and to assign and
reassign the leased space to a federal agency.
(j) Section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. 18 of 1950, 15 FR 3177, 64 Stat. 1270 (40 U.S.C. 301 note), which, with certain exceptions, transferred all function with respect to acquiring space in buildings by lease, and all functions with respect to assigning and reassigning space in buildings for use by agencies (including both space acquired by lease and space in Government-owned buildings) to the Administrator.
(k) 28 U.S.C. 462(f) authorizes the Administrator to provide space to the judicial branch upon request from the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Court.
(l) E.O. 12072 encourages Federal agencies to locate and use real estate in ways that serve to strengthen the Nation's cities and make them attractive places to live and work, conserve existing urban resources, and encourage the development and redevelopment of cities. Toward this end, the E.O. requires executive agencies to give first consideration to centralized community business areas and other areas recommended by local officials as possible locations for Federal facilities when locating in urban areas.
(m) E.O. 13006 requires that, when operationally appropriate and economically prudent, and subject to the RDA and E.O. 12072, when locating Federal facilities, Federal agencies must give first consideration to historic properties within historic districts. If no such property is suitable, then Federal agencies must consider other developed or undeveloped sites within historic districts. Federal agencies must then consider historic properties outside of historic districts, if no suitable site within a district exists.
§ 102-83.15
Which Federal agencies must comply with these provisions?
All Federal agencies operating under or subject to the real property authorities of the Administrator, including those using delegated real property authority, must comply with these provisions. Refer to 41 CFR 102-71.20 for the definition of Federal agency. Federal agencies using independent authority must still comply with statutory requirements and E.O.s (consistent with such authority), but this part does not apply to these agencies. Agencies with independent authority may use these provisions at agency discretion.
§ 102-83.20
How does an agency request a deviation from the provisions of this part?
Refer to §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter for information on how to obtain a deviation from this part.
§ 102-83.25
Intentionally Omitted.

# Subpart B—Location of Space
§ 102-83.30
What basic location of space policy governs a Federal agency?
(a) All Federal agencies when planning for location decisions under the authorities of the Administrator, including those using delegated real property authority, are required to apply the applicable laws, regulations, and E.O.s outlined in this part to their activities. This applies to agencies using the space and to agencies acquiring a leasehold interest or a new site to accommodate a space requirement.
(b) Federal agencies intending to use space under this part are responsible for identifying the geographic area within which to locate their activities (
i.e.,
the delineated area) to support their mission and program requirements. Agencies must define delineated areas that support the applicable laws, regulations, and E.O.s outlined in this part. In addition to these responsibilities, agencies conducting a space acquisition have certain additional specific responsibilities as outlined in this part.
§ 102-83.35
Is there a general hierarchy of consideration that agencies must follow in their utilization of space?
Yes. In accordance with part 79, Assignment and Utilization of Space, Federal agencies must follow the hierarchy of consideration, giving first priority to Government-owned and Government-leased buildings. When no existing Government-owned or Government-leased space meets the space need, Federal agencies must follow the hierarchy of geographic consideration
in § 102-83.95 when obtaining new space as identified in this subpart.
§ 102-83.40
What is a delineated area?
The delineated area is the specific geographic boundary within which space will be obtained to satisfy a Federal agency space requirement.
§ 102-83.45
What is a Core-Based Statistical Area?
A Core-Based Statistical Area (CBSA) is a geographic area established by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Current CBSAs are listed in OMB Bulletin No. 20-01, “Revised Delineations of Metropolitan Statistical Areas, Micropolitan Statistical Areas, and Combined Statistical Areas, and Guidance on Uses of the Delineations of These Areas,” dated March 6, 2020, or succeeding OMB Bulletin. In this part, the CBSA designation is used to distinguish between urban and rural areas, which have different directives associated with them.
§ 102-83.50
How is a CBSA defined?
A CBSA is defined by OMB using U.S. Census data as an area that has at its core an urban center and includes the adjacent areas that are socioeconomically tied to the urban center by commuting patterns pursuant to the
Standards for Delineating Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas,
as updated periodically and published in the
Federal Register,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1104(d) and 44 U.S.C. 3504.
§ 102-83.55
What is a rural area?
A rural area is any area that is not contained within the geographic boundaries of a CBSA.
§ 102-83.60
What is an urban area?
An urban area is any area contained within the geographic boundaries of a CBSA.
§ 102-83.65
What is a principal city?
(a) A principal city is an incorporated place or census designated place within a CBSA that meets certain employment and population-based criteria. Major metropolitan areas typically have several principal cities.
(b) The principal city designation is established by OMB pursuant to the
Standards for Delineating Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas,
as updated periodically and published in the
Federal Register,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1104(d) and 44 U.S.C. 3504(e). OMB regularly publishes an updated list of Principal Cities (OMB Bulletin No. 20-01, and succeeding). In this part, the principal city designation is used to help the Federal agency focus local consultation and engagement.
§ 102-83.70
What are centralized community business areas and centralized business districts?
A centralized community business area (CBA) or centralized business district, also commonly referred to as a central business district, is an area of concentration of commercial real estate and activity within a principal city, including other specific areas of similar character that may be recommended by local officials. The CBA may be part of a traditional downtown area or part of another area that local government officials have identified as supportive of their long-term economic development objectives. CBAs are designated by local governments and not by Federal agencies, so Federal agencies must consult and engage with local officials to understand the current boundaries of these areas. As described in E.O. 12072, these areas may include other specific areas that are recommended by local officials.
§ 102-83.75
What is environmental justice?
Environmental justice is the just treatment and meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of income, race, color, national origin, Tribal affiliation, or disability, in agency decision-making and other Federal activities that affect human health and the environment so that people are fully protected from disproportionate and adverse human health and environmental effects including risks and hazards, such as those related to climate change and cumulative impacts of environmental and other burdens on communities with environmental justice concerns; and have equitable access to a healthy, sustainable, and resilient
environment. Advancing environmental justice further requires Federal agencies to provide opportunities for meaningful engagement of the public, including communities with environmental justice concerns who are potentially affected by Federal activities. When planning for location decisions, which is the federal activity for purposes of this rule, Federal agencies must be especially mindful of how proposed locations would impact communities with environmental justice concerns. As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, Federal agencies should seek to minimize negative and maximize positive impacts in these areas, using available data and meaningful engagement with local stakeholders to identify such communities, and identify, analyze, and address adverse human health and environmental effects (including risks) and hazards of the Federal activity.
§ 102-83.80
What is equitable development?
Equitable development is a positive development approach that employs processes, policies, and programs that aim to meet the needs of all communities and community members, with a particular focus on underserved communities and populations. When seeking Federal locations, agencies should, to the extent consistent with applicable law, consider the needs of communities, including those communities that are underserved, through policies and actions that reduce disparities while fostering communities that are healthy and vibrant.
§ 102-83.85
In addition to Federal agency mission, security and program requirements, what other factors and principles must agencies consider when establishing a potential delineated area and planning for location decisions?
(a) In addition to agency mission, security and program requirements, Federal agencies also must give serious consideration to the impact a location decision will have on improving the social, economic, environmental, and cultural conditions of communities, including those that have been historically harmed by environmental injustice and inequality, as well as avoiding harm to such communities, while at the same time promoting efficient and cost-effective Government real estate management. These factors and principles derive from the relevant authorities in this part and include the following:
(1) Cost to the Government, including both upfront real estate acquisition as well as long-term operating costs;
(2) Opportunities to reduce the Federal real estate footprint and optimize agency space usage;
(3) Ability to manage the local Federal real estate portfolio strategically to optimize effective operations over the long term; and
(4) Consideration of the competition requirements under CICA, if applicable to the site location decision.
(b) In addition to agency mission, security and program requirements, Federal agencies also must consider a series of factors meant to promote Federal investment that supports larger Federal program goals and local development objectives. These factors include the following:
(1) Compatibility with State and local economic development objectives, such as local and regional comprehensive plans, housing and transportation plans, neighborhood scale plans and local plans covering sustainability and resilience goals. When planning for location decisions, agencies should align, where possible, with local and regional planning goals. Agencies should meaningfully engage with local officials and community members potentially impacted by a location decision and consider their recommendations in light of Federal mission needs and equitability and sustainability goals, including where affected populations have experienced historic and ongoing harms due to environmental injustice and inequality;
(2) Promoting environmentally sustainable development, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, increased resilience to the impacts of climate change, and stewardship of regional natural resources;
(3) Maximizing the use of existing resources by leveraging investment in existing infrastructure;
(4) Prioritizing development of brownfields (properties, the expansion,
redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant), greyfields (previously developed land that is underutilized) and infill development;
(5) Locating facilities along transportation corridors to encourage the use of alternate modes of transportation, and seeking efficient locations that provide a variety of transportation options for employees and the public, especially walking, biking and public transit options, while maximizing use of existing infrastructure and minimizing employee and visitor travel by car;
(6) Prioritizing central business districts, existing employment centers and rural town centers, and locating in areas that are accessible by public transit, where it exists, to a broad range of the workforce and population, such as those seeking services or needing to visit Federal space locations;
(7) Avoiding development in floodplains or impacts to wetlands to the extent practicable;
(8) Fostering protection of the natural environment by preserving ecosystems, including native ecosystems, avoiding development of green space, and promoting climate change adaptation planning;
(9) Advancing environmental justice and equitable development; and
(10) Advancing Federal and local historic preservation objectives and promoting the preservation of historic resources and other existing buildings.
(c) The factors listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be considered when applying the hierarchy of geographic consideration in § 102-83.90. The optimal Federal location decision is the choice that meets Federal agency mission, security and program requirements and is cost effective, while leveraging Federal development in support of these other Federal programs policies and goals, as well as local development objectives.
§ 102-83.90
What hierarchy of geographic consideration must agencies apply to location decisions?
(a) Agencies must develop policies and procedures for applying the goals of this part in their business practices. These policies and procedures must include methods for applying the hierarchy outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) When making new location decisions, agencies must give preference to geographic areas in the following order:
(1) Agencies must give first priority to locating in a rural area in accordance with the Rural Development Act of 1972 (RDA). As with other elements of this part, acquiring agencies must develop their own policies and procedures for implementing the goals of the RDA. Agencies must consider the objectives outlined in § 102-83.85 and use these principles and factors to differentiate among potential locations. Agencies are encouraged to seek a location that best meets these factors or meet multiple factors. If an agency's mission cannot be accomplished in a rural area, the agency may locate in an urban area.
(2) When an agency's mission requires location in an urban area, the agency must give priority to the CBA within a principal city of a CBSA or other areas as recommended by local officials. Agencies must consider the objectives outlined in § 102-83.85 and use these principles and factors to differentiate among potential locations. Agencies are encouraged to seek a location that best meets these factors or meets multiple factors.
(3) If an agency mission cannot be met within a principal city, or where areas, such as existing employment centers, outside the principal city offer better opportunities to advance the objectives outlined in § 102-83.85, in accordance with their established policies and procedures, agencies may proceed to seek space in those areas.
(4) Once an agency has set a delineated area in a rural or urban area, agencies must comply with the requirements for consideration of historic properties and districts set forth in § 102-78.60.
§ 102-83.95
How must agencies consult and engage with local officials and communities to comply with the consultation and engagement elements of part 102-83?
Agencies have wide latitude to develop their own internal policies for consulting and engaging in ways that are both effective and efficient based upon the intent of this part, the relevant development context and the agency's core business practices. Agencies must develop internal policies and procedures that guide consultation and engagement using different methods for actions of varying scale or scope. Location decisions to support fee simple acquisition and Federal construction in most cases will require direct consultation and engagement with local officials during the location evaluation process to meet the intent of this part. Conversely, for acquisition of existing space through a lease contract, agencies may develop internal procedures that apply the hierarchy outlined in this part such that no transaction-specific consultation or engagement with local officials would be required if the delineated area is within a recognized CBA or other area recommended by local officials. To expedite effective and efficient implementation of this part, where appropriate, agencies are encouraged to pursue consultation and engagement actively with local officials and communities, as appropriate, to discuss development goals well ahead of specific space actions.
(a) Under multiple guiding authorities, acquiring agencies must consult and engage with local officials to apply the principles outlined in this part properly. Consultation and engagement and consideration of local input must occur in urban areas, and agencies are encouraged to perform similar consultation and engagement in rural areas, as appropriate.
(b) Federal agencies should refer to their agency Tribal consultation policies and applicable legal requirements, and confer if needed with agency counsel, to determine whether consultation with Tribal governments, Alaska Native corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, or other entities is required, such as if the Federal location decision may include or affect Tribal trust or reserved lands, and natural resources, and if so conduct such consultation.
(c) Where communities are likely to face displacement risks associated with a Federal location decision, based on agency analysis of existing data and consultation and engagement with local officials, or where communities have been harmed historically by inequity, such as persistent poverty or underinvestment, or environmental injustice, agency engagement should occur not only with relevant regional and local officials but also with members of the affected communities.
(d) Meaningful engagement with local stakeholders outside of government or those who have been historically left out of community and economic development planning requires agencies to identify and include community members in federal location planning activities early enough in the process for them to have insight into and for their input to be reflected in the decision making process. This includes opportunities for significant participation through modes that reduce known barriers to participation, such as plain language use, translation, transportation, digital and non-digital access, culture, time of day, and availability of childcare and other supportive services.
§ 102-83.100
What flexibility do Federal agencies have to implement part 102-83 in high cost areas?
Agencies have flexibility in considering the differing costs among principal cities within a single CBSA and in setting delineated areas to incorporate lower-cost markets.
There may be some instances where the head of the responsible acquiring agency or the head of the agency's designee determines that cost and security issues take precedence over the hierarchy of consideration in this part. Federal agencies may deviate from the hierarchy only where doing so would represent significant cost savings or security advantages to the Government. In such cases, agencies must consult and engage with and consider the recommendations of local officials, review
and affirm this determination, and document the file accordingly.
In every instance, agencies must seek to meet the intent of the governing authorities described in § 102-83.10, and they must incorporate their applicable process into their internal policies and procedures.
§ 102-83.105
Are Federal agencies required to give preference to historic properties when acquiring leased space?
Yes. Federal agencies must give a price preference to historic properties when acquiring leased space. See § 102-73.30 of this chapter for additional guidance.
§ 102-83.110
Does GSA provide assistance to Federal agencies by consulting and engaging with local officials to establish recommended delineated areas?
Yes. GSA may, at its discretion, assist agencies by consulting and engaging with local officials to establish recommended delineated areas for use in Federal location decisions. These GSA-recommended delineated areas may be proactively developed independent of a specific space requirement. These recommended delineated areas will take into consideration the factors discussed in this part. The final delineated area used in the space acquisition may differ from these recommended areas, depending on the agency mission requirements, CICA and other factors relevant to a specific space action.
§ 102-83.115
Are Federal agencies required to consider whether the CBA or other areas recommended by local officials will provide for adequate competition when acquiring leased space?
Yes. In accordance with CICA, Federal agencies must consider whether restricting the delineated area for obtaining leased space to CBAs or other areas recommended by local officials will provide for adequate competition when acquiring space. If a Federal agency determines that the delineated area must be expanded beyond the preferred areas to provide adequate competition, the agency may expand the delineated area in consultation and engagement with local officials. Federal agencies must continue to include the preferred area in such expanded areas.
§ 102-83.120
What information and data must agencies provide to the Administrator of General Services, or other acquiring agency head, to comply with the provisions of this part?
Efficient and effective space management of Federally owned and leased facilities through the activities described in this part requires that Federal agencies cooperate with acquiring agencies and furnish any related data and information requested by the acquiring agencies, to the extent not prohibited by law. This includes information or data that allows for:
(a) Selecting, acquiring, managing, and disposing of Federal space in a manner that will foster the policies and programs of the Federal Government and improve the management and administration of Government activities;
(b) Issuing regulations, standards and criteria for the selection, acquisition and management of Federally owned and leased space;
(c) Surveying space requirements, space utilization and daily occupancy data of executive agencies;
(d) Meeting essential space requirements in a manner that is economically feasible and prudent; and
(e) Making maximum use of existing Federally controlled facilities that, in the acquiring agency head's judgment, are adequate or economically adaptable to meeting the space needs of executive agencies.
§ 102-83.125
Who must approve the final delineated area?
The Federal agency conducting the space acquisition must approve the final delineated area for the site acquisition or action. The acquiring agency must confirm that the final delineated area complies with all applicable laws, regulations and E.O.s.
§ 102-83.130
When is written justification for a delineated area in urban areas required?
If the delineated area identified is outside the CBA in a principal city, or
differs from a GSA-recommended delineated area that has been developed in accordance with the guiding authorities in this part, an agency must demonstrate, in writing, that preference has been given to the CBA of a principal city or GSA's recommended delineated area, and that the agency considered the environmental and socioeconomic factors in subpart B, Location of Space, of this part. The agency justification also must address, at a minimum, the efficient performance of the mission(s) and program(s) of the agency, the nature and function of the facility or facilities involved, and the convenience of the public being served.
§ 102-83.135
How will GSA negotiate changes to the final delineated area with requesting agencies?
For space acquisitions conducted by GSA, if, based on its review of a requesting agency's identified delineated area, GSA concludes that the requesting agency's identified delineated area should be modified, GSA will discuss its recommended changes with the requesting agency. If, after discussions, the requesting agency does not agree with GSA's delineated area recommendation, the requesting agency may appeal GSA's determination in accordance with § 102-83.140. If a requesting agency elects to ask for a review of GSA's delineated area recommendation, GSA will continue to work on the requirements development and other activities related to the requesting agency's space request. GSA will not issue a solicitation to satisfy an agency's space request until a final delineated area is determined through the appeal process.
§ 102-83.140
Where may Federal agencies appeal GSA decisions and recommendations concerning the delineated area?
Agencies may appeal decisions and recommendations, in writing, to the GSA Regional Commissioner of Public Buildings in the region where the space acquisition is to take place or to the GSA Regional Commissioner's designee. The written request for review must include all relevant facts and other considerations and must justify the alternative delineated area identified by the requesting agency with regard to the location requirements set forth in all applicable statutes, E.O.s and regulations. Once submitted to the Regional Commissioner or the Regional Commissioner's designee, the requesting agency's appeal will proceed according to the process established internally by GSA.
§ 102-83.145
Do these regulations apply in GSA's National Capital Region?
The presence of the Federal Government in the National Capital Region is such that the distribution of Federal facilities has been, and will continue to be, a major influence on the character and extent of development in the National Capital Region. In view of the special nature of the National Capital Region and the preponderance of Federal space contained therein, these regulations will be applied in the National Capital Region in conjunction with regional plans and will guide the development of strategic plans for the housing of Federal agencies within the National Capital Region.

# Subpart C—Severability
§ 102-83.150
What portions of this part are severable?
All provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is GSA's intention that the remaining provisions will continue in effect.
PART 102-84 [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-85

# PART 102-85—PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE

# Subpart A—Pricing Policy—General
Sec.
102-85.5
By what authority is the pricing policy in this part prescribed?
102-85.10
What is the scope of this part?
102-85.15
What are the basic policies for charging Rent for space and services?
102-85.20
What does an Occupancy Agreement (OA) do?
102-85.25
What is the basic principle governing OAs?
102-85.30
Are there special rules for certain Federal customers?
102-85.35
What definitions apply to this part?
102-85.40
What are the major components of the pricing policy?

# Subpart B—Occupancy Agreement
102-85.45
When is an Occupancy Agreement required?
102-85.50
When does availability of funding have to be certified?
102-85.55
What are the terms and conditions included in an OA?
102-85.60
Who can execute an OA?
102-85.65
How does an OA obligate the customer agency?
102-85.70
Are the standard OA terms appropriate for non-cancelable space?
102-85.75
When can space assignments be terminated?
102-85.80
Who is financially responsible for expenses resulting from tenant non-performance?
102-85.85
What if a customer agency participates in a consolidation?

# Subpart C—Tenant Improvement Allowance
102-85.90
What is a tenant improvement allowance?
102-85.95
Who pays for the TI allowance?
102-85.100
How does a customer agency pay for tenant improvements?
102-85.105
How does an agency pay for customer alterations that exceed the TI allowance?
102-85.110
Can the allowance amount be changed?

# Subpart D—Rent Charges
102-85.115
How is the Rent determined?
102-85.120
What is “shell Rent”?
102-85.125
What alternate methods may be used to establish Rent in Federally owned space?
102-85.130
How are exemptions from Rent granted?
102-85.135
What if space and services are provided by other executive agencies?
102-85.140
How are changes in Rent reflected in OAs?
102-85.145
When are customer agencies responsible for Rent charges?
102-85.150
How will Rent charges be reflected on the customer agency's Rent bill?
102-85.155
What does a customer agency do if it does not agree with a Rent bill?
102-85.160
How does a customer agency know how much to budget for Rent?

# Subpart E—Standard Levels of Service
102-85.165
What are standard levels of service?
102-85.170
Can flexitime and other alternative work schedules cost the customer agency more?
102-85.175
Are the standard level services for cleaning, mechanical operation, and maintenance identified in an OA?
102-85.180
Can there be other standard services?
102-85.185
Can space be exempted from the standard levels of service?
102-85.190
Can GSA Rent be adjusted when standard levels of service are performed by other customer agencies?

# Subpart F—Special Services
102-85.195
Does GSA provide special services?

# Subpart G—Continued Occupancy, Relocation and Forced Moves
102-85.200
Can customer agencies continue occupancy of space or must they relocate at the end of an OA?
102-85.205
What happens if a customer agency continues occupancy after the expiration of an OA?
102-85.210
What if a customer agency has to relocate?
102-85.215
What if another customer agency forces a GSA customer to move?
102-85.220
Can a customer agency forced to relocate waive the reimbursements?
102-85.225
What are the funding responsibilities for relocations resulting from emergencies?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
66 FR 23169, May 8, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Pricing Policy—General
§ 102-85.5
By what authority is the pricing policy in this part prescribed?
(a) General authority is granted in the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, Sec. 205(c) and 210(j), 63 Stat. 390 and 86 Stat. 219; (40 U.S.C. 486(c) and 40 U.S.C. 490(j), respectively).
(b) This part implements the applicable provisions of Federal law, including, but not limited to, the:
(1) Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 63 Stat. 377, as amended;
(2) Act of July 1, 1898 (40 U.S.C. 285);
(3) Act of April 28, 1902 (40 U.S.C. 19);
(4) Act of August 27, 1935 (40 U.S.C. 304c);
(5) Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended (40 U.S.C. 601-619);
(6) Public Buildings Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. 92-313, (86 Stat. 219);
(7) Rural Development Act of 1972, Pub. L. 92-419, (86 Stat. 674);
(8) Reorganization Plan No. 18 of 1950 (40 U.S.C. 490 note);
(9) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
);
(10) National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
);
(11) Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 and the Federal Urban Land Use Act (42 U.S.C. 4201-4244; 40 U.S.C. 531-535);
(12) Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(a)(16)-(19), 601a and 612a);
(13) Public Buildings Amendments of 1988, Pub. L. 100-678, (102 Stat. 4049);
(14) National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended (16 U.S.C. 461
et seq.
);
(15) Executive Order 12072 of August 16, 1978 (43 FR 36869);
(16) Executive Order 12411 of March 29, 1983 (48 FR 13391);
(17) Executive Order 12512 of April 29, 1985 (50 FR 18453);
(18) Executive Order 13005 of May 21, 1996 (61 FR 26069); and
(19) Executive Order 13006 of May 21, 1996 (61 FR 26071).
§ 102-85.10
What is the scope of this part?
(a) This part describes GSA policy and principles for the assignment and occupancy of space under its control and the rights and obligations of GSA and the customer agencies that request or occupy such space pursuant to GSA Occupancy Agreements (OA).
(b) Space managed by agencies under delegation of authority from GSA is subject to the provisions of this part.
(c) This part is not applicable to:
(1) Licenses, permits or leases with non-Federal entities under the Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act (40 U.S.C. 490(a)(16-19)); or
(2) The disposal of surplus lease space under section 210(h)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(h)(2)).
§ 102-85.15
What are the basic policies for charging Rent for space and services?
(a) GSA will charge for space and services furnished by GSA (unless otherwise exempted by the Administrator of General Services) a Rent charge which will approximate commercial charges for comparable space and services. Rent for all assignments for GSA-controlled space will be priced according to the principles of the pricing policy in this part. These principles are reflected in the following elements of GSA Rent charges:
(1) “Shell” Rent based on approximate commercial charges for comparable space and services for Federally owned space (accomplished using appraisal procedures);
(2) Rent based on actual cost of the lease, including the costs (if any) of services not provided by the lessor, plus a GSA fee;
(3) Amortization of any tenant improvement allowance used;
(4) Any applicable real estate taxes, operating costs, parking, security and joint use fees; and
(5) For certain projects involving new construction or major renovation of Federally-owned buildings, a return on investment pricing approach if an appraisal-determined rental value does not provide a minimum return (OMB discount rate for calculating the present value of yearly costs plus 2%) on the cost of the prospective capital investment. Each specific use of Return on Investment (ROI) pricing must be approved by OMB and duly recorded in an Occupancy Agreement (OA) with the customer agency. Once the ROI methodology is employed to establish Rent for a capital investment, the ROI method must be retained for the duration of the OA term.
(b) Special services not included in the standard levels of service may be provided by GSA on a reimbursable basis. GSA may also furnish alterations on a reimbursable basis in buildings where GSA is responsible for alterations only.
(c) The financial terms and conditions under which GSA assigns, and a customer agency occupies, each block of GSA-controlled space, shall be documented in a written OA.
§ 102-85.20
What does an Occupancy Agreement (OA) do?
An OA defines GSA's relationship with each customer agency and:
(a) Establishes specific financial terms, provisions, rights, and obligations of GSA and its customer for each space assignment;
(b) Minimizes exposure to future unknown costs for both GSA and customer agencies;
(c) Stabilizes Rent payments to the extent reasonable and desired by customers; and
(d) Allows tailoring of space and related services to meet customer agency needs.
§ 102-85.25
What is the basic principle governing OAs?
The basic principle governing OAs is to adopt the private sector practice of capturing in a written document the business terms to which GSA and a customer agency agree concerning individual space assignments.
§ 102-85.30
Are there special rules for certain Federal customers?
Yes, in lieu of OAs, GSA is able to enter into agreements with customer agencies that reflect the parties particular needs. For example, the space and services provided to the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate are governed by existing memoranda of agreement (MOA). When there are conflicts between the provisions of this part and MOAs, the MOAs prevail.
§ 102-85.35
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Accept space
or
acceptance of space
means a commitment from an agency to occupy specified GSA-controlled space.
Agency-controlled and/or operated space
means:
(1) Space that is owned, leased, or otherwise controlled or operated by Federal agencies under any authority other than the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended; and
(2) it also includes agency-acquired space for which acquisition authority has been delegated or otherwise granted to the agency by GSA. It does not include space covered by an OA.
Assign
or
assignment
is defined in the definition for space assignment.
Building shell
means the complete enveloping structure, the base-building systems, and the finished common areas (building common and floor common) of a building that bound the tenant areas.
Customer agency
means any department, agency, or independent establishment in the Federal Government, including any wholly-owned corporation; any executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol, and any activities under his direction).
Emergency relocation
is a customer move that results from an extraordinary event such as a fire, natural disaster, or immediate threat to the health and safety of occupants that renders a current space assignment unusable and requires that it be vacated, permanently or temporarily.
Federal Buildings Fund
means the fund into which Rent charges and other revenues are deposited, and collections cited in section 210(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (U.S.C. 490(j)), and from which monies are available for expenditures for real property management and related activities in such amounts as are specified in annual appropriations acts without regard to fiscal year limitations.
Federally controlled space
means workspace for which the United States Government has a right of occupancy by ownership, by lease, or by any other means, such as by contract, barter, license, easement, permit, requisition, or condemnation. Such workspace excludes space owned or leased by private sector entities performing work on Government contracts.
Federally owned space
means space, the title to which is vested in the United States Government or which will vest automatically according to an existing agreement.
Forced move
means the involuntary physical relocation, from one space assignment to another, of a customer agency housed in GSA-controlled space
initiated by another customer agency or by GSA, before the expiration of a lease or an OA term. (See also the definition of GSA-initiated move.)
General use space
means all types of space other than “warehouse,” “parking,” or “unique” space, as defined elsewhere in this part. Examples of general use space are:
(1) Office and office-related space such as file areas, libraries, meeting rooms, computer rooms, mail rooms, training and conference, automated data processing operations, courtrooms, and judicial chambers; and
(2) Storage space that contains different quality and finishes from general use space, but that is within a building where predominantly general use space is located.
GSA-controlled space
means Federally controlled space under the custody or control of GSA. It includes space for which GSA has delegated operational, maintenance, or protection authority to the customer agency.
GSA-delegated space (or GSA delegated building)
means GSA-controlled space for which GSA has delegated operational, maintenance or protection authority to the customer agency.
GSA-initiated move
means any relocation action in GSA-controlled space that:
(1) Is involuntary to the customer agency and required to be effective prior to the expiration of an effective OA, or in the case of leased space, prior to the expiration of the lease; or
(2) Is an emergency relocation initiated by GSA.
Initial space alteration (ISA).
See definition of “tenant improvement.”
Initial space layout
means the specific placement of workstations, furniture and equipment within new space assignments.
Inventory
means a summary or itemized list of the real property, and associated descriptive information, that is under the control of a Federal agency.
Joint-use space
means common space within a Federally controlled facility, not specifically assigned to any one agency, and available for use by multiple agencies, such as cafeterias, auditoriums, conference rooms, credit unions, visitor parking spaces, snack bars, certain wellness/physical fitness facilities, and child care centers.
Leased space
means space for which the United States Government has a right of use and occupancy by virtue of having acquired a leasehold interest.
Non-cancelable space
means space that, due to its layout, design, location, or other characteristics, is unlikely to be needed by another GSA customer agency. Typical conditions that might cause space to be defined as non-cancelable are:
(1) Special space construction features;
(2) Lack of any realistic Federal need for the space other than by the requesting agency; and
(3) Remote location or unusual term (short or long) desired by the agency.
Occupancy Agreement (OA)
means a written agreement descriptive of the financial terms and conditions under which GSA assigns, and a customer agency occupies, the GSA-controlled space identified therein.
Parking
or
parking space
means surface land, structures, or areas within structures designed and designated for the purpose of parking vehicles.
Personnel
means the peak number of persons to be housed during a single shift, regardless of how many workstations are provided for them. In addition to permanent employees of the agency, personnel includes temporaries, part-time, seasonal, and contractual employees, budgeted vacancies, and employees of other agencies and organizations who are housed in a space assignment.
Portfolio leases
mean long term or “master” leases, usually negotiated to house several agencies whose individual term requirements differ from the terms of the underlying GSA lease with the lessor, and from each other. These may also be leases housing single agencies, but which entail for GSA responsibilities (burdens and benefits) which mimic an ownership position, or equity rights, even though no equity interest or ownership liability exists. An example of the latter would be long term renewal options on a lease which, in order to enjoy, involve substantial capital outlays by GSA to improve the building infrastructure. In both these cases, GSA is assuming risks or capital
expenditures outside of the conventions of single transactions or occupancies. Accordingly, for a portfolio lease, it is not appropriate merely to pass through to the customer agency(ies) the rental rate of the underlying GSA lease. Portfolio leases are treated for pricing purposes as owned space, with Rent set by appraisal.
Predominant use
means the use to which the greatest portion of a location is put. Predominant use is determined by the Public Buildings Service (PBS), GSA, and will typically result in the designation of a location as one of four types of space—General Use, Warehouse, Unique, or Parking—even though some smaller portions of the space may be used for one or more of the other types of uses.
Rent
means the amounts charged by GSA for space and related services to the customer agencies with tenancy in GSA-controlled space. The word “Rent” is capitalized to differentiate it from the contract “rent” that GSA pays lessors.
Rentable square footage
means the amount of space as defined in “Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)/American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard Z65.1-1996.” The BOMA/ANSI standard also defines “gross,” “office area,” “floor common,” and “building common” areas. Any references to these terms in this part refer to the BOMA/ANSI standard definitions. This standard has been adopted in accordance with GSA's interest in conforming its practices to nationally recognized industry standards to the extent possible.

# Note to the definition of Rentable square footage:
Rentable square footage
generally includes square footage of areas occupied by customers plus a prorated share of floor common areas such as elevator lobbies, building corridors, public restrooms, utility closets, and machine rooms. Rentable square footage also includes a prorated share of building common areas located throughout the building. Examples of building common space include ground floor entrance lobby, enclosed atrium, loading dock, and mail room.
Request for space
or
space request
means a written or electronically submitted document or an oral request, within which an agency's space needs are summarized. A request for space is requisite for development of an OA. Thus, it must be submitted to GSA by a duly authorized official of the customer agency, and it must be accompanied by documentation of the customer agency's ability to fund payment of required Rent charges.
Return on Investment (ROI) pricing
is one possible methodology used to establish a Rent rate for certain owned space. Typically, ROI pricing is a Rent rate that ensures GSA a reasonable return on its cost to acquire and improve the asset. ROI pricing may be used where no other comparable commercial space is available or no other appraisal method would be appropriate. It may also be used in cases in which an appraisal-based rental rate will not meet GSA's minimum return requirements for the planned level of investment.
Security fees
mean Rent charges for building services provided by GSA's Federal Protective Service. Security fees are comprised of basic and building specific charges.
(a) A basic security fee is assessed in all PBS-controlled properties where the Federal Protective Service (FPS) provides security services. The rate is set annually on a per-square-foot basis. The charge includes the following services:
(1) General law enforcement on PBS-controlled property;
(2) Physical security assessments;
(3) Crime prevention and awareness training;
(4) Advice and assistance to building security committees;
(5) Intelligence sharing program;
(6) Criminal investigation;
(7) Assistance and coordination in Occupancy Emergency Plan development;
(8) Coordination of mobilization and response to terrorist threat or civil disturbance;
(9) Program administration for security guard contracts; and
(10) Megacenter operations for monitoring building perimeter alarms and dispatching appropriate law enforcement response.
(b) The building specific security charge is comprised of two elements: Operating expenses and amortized capital costs. Building specific charges, whether operating expenses or capital
costs, are distributed overall federal users by building or facility in direct proportion to each customer agency's percentage of federal occupancy. As with joint use charges, the distribution of building-specific charges among customer agencies is not re-adjusted for vacancy.
Space
means a defined area within a building and/or parcel of land. (Personal property and furniture are not included.)
Space allocation standard (SAS)
means a standard agreed upon by GSA and a customer agency, written in terms that permit nationwide or regional application, that is used as a basis for establishing that agency's space requirements. An SAS may describe special GSA and customer agency funding responsibilities, although such responsibilities will be covered in OAs for space assignments. An SAS may also be developed between GSA and customer agencies on a regional level to standardize or simplify transactions, provided that the terms of a regional SAS are consistent with the terms of that agency's national SAS and the terms of this part.
Space assignment
or
assignments
means a transaction between GSA and a customer agency that results in a customer agency's right to occupy certain GSA-controlled space, usually in return for customer agency payment(s) to GSA for use of the space. Space assignment rights, obligations, and responsibilities not covered in this part, or in the customer guides, are formalized in an OA.
Space planning
means the process of using recognized professional techniques of planning, layout and interior design to determine the best internal location and the most efficient configuration for satisfying agency space needs.
Space program of requirements
means a summary statement of an agency's space needs. These requirements will generally include information about location, square footage, construction requirements, and duration of the agency's space need. They may be identified in any format mutually agreeable to GSA and the agency.
Special space
means space which has unusual architectural/construction features, requires the installation of special equipment, or requires disproportionately high or low costs to construct, maintain and/or operate as compared to office or storage space. Special space generally refers to space which has construction features, finishes, services, utilities, or other additional costs beyond those specified in the customer general allowance (e.g., courtrooms, laboratories).
Standard level of service.
See § 102-85.165 for the definition of standard level of service.
Telecommunications
means electronic processing of information, either voice or data or both, over a wide variety of media, (e.g., copper wire, microwave, fiber optics, radio frequencies), between individuals or offices within a building (e.g., local area networks), between buildings, and between cities.
Tenant improvement (TI)
means a finished component of an interior block of space. Tenant improvements represent additions to or alterations of the building shell that adapt the workspace to the specific uses of the customer. If made at initial occupancy, the TIs are known as initial space alterations or ISAs.
Tenant improvement (TI) allowance
means the dollar amount, including design, labor, materials, contractor costs (if contractors are used), management, and inspection, that GSA will spend to construct, alter, and finish space for customer occupancy (excluding personal property and furniture, which are customer agency responsibilities) at initial occupancy. The dollar amounts for the allowances are different for each agency and bureau to accommodate agencies' different mission needs. The dollar amounts also may vary by locations reflecting different costs in different markets. The PBS bill will only reflect the actual amount the customers spend, not the allowance. The amount of the TI allowance is determined by GSA. Agencies can request that GSA revise the TI allowance amount by project or categorically for an entire bureau. The cost of replacement of tenant improvements is borne by the customer agency.
Unique space
means space for which there is no commercial market comparable (e.g., border stations).
Warehouse
or
warehouse space
means space contained in a structure primarily intended for the housing of files, records, equipment, or other personal property, and is not primarily intended for housing personnel and office operations. Warehouse space generally is designed and constructed to lower specifications than office buildings, with features such as exposed ceilings, unfinished perimeter and few dividing partitions. Warehouse space also is usually heated to a lesser degree but not air-conditioned, and is cleaned to lesser standards than office space.
Workspace
means Federally controlled space in buildings and structures (permanent, semi-permanent, or temporary) that provides an acceptable environment for the performance of agency mission requirements by employees or by other persons occupying it.
§ 102-85.40
What are the major components of the pricing policy?
The major components of the pricing policy are:
(a) An OA between a customer agency and GSA;
(b) Tenant improvement allowance; and
(c) The establishment of Rent the agency pays to GSA based on the OA for:
(1) Leased space, a pass-through to the customer agency of the underlying GSA lease contract costs, and a PBS fee; or
(2) GSA-owned space, Rent determined by appraisal.

# Subpart B—Occupancy Agreement
§ 102-85.45
When is an Occupancy Agreement required?
An Occupancy Agreement (OA) is required for each customer agency's space assignment. The OA must be agreed to by GSA and the customer agency prior to GSA's commitment of funds for occupancy and formal assignment of space.
§ 102-85.50
When does availability of funding have to be certified?
The customer agency must sign an OA prior to GSA's making any major contractual commitments associated with the space request. Typically, this should occur at the earliest possible opportunity-i.e., when funds become available. However, in no event shall certification occur later than just prior to the award of the contract to a design architect in the case of Federal construction or renovation in Federally owned space or prior to the award of a lease. This serves as a customer agency's funding commitment unless certification is provided on another document.
§ 102-85.55
What are the terms and conditions included in an OA?
The terms and conditions are modeled after commercial practice. They are intended to reflect a full mutual understanding of the financial terms and agreement of the parties. The OA describes the actual space and services to be provided and all associated actual costs to the customer during the term of occupancy. The OA does not include any general provisions or terms contained in this part. OAs typically describe the following, depending on whether the space is leased or Federally owned:
(a) Assigned square footage;
(b) Shell Rent and term of occupancy;
(c) Amortized amount of customer allowance used;
(d) Operating costs and escalations;
(e) One time charges; e.g., lump sum payments by the customer;
(f) Real estate tax and escalations;
(g) Parking and escalations;
(h) Additional/reduced services;
(i) Security services and associated Rent;
(j) Joint use space and associated Rent;
(k) PBS fee;
(l) Customer rights and provisions for occupancy after OA expiration;
(m) Cancellation provisions if different from this part or the customer service guides;
(n) Any special circumstances associated with the occupancy, such as environmental responsibilities, unusual use restrictions, or agreements with local authorities;
(o) Emergency relocations;
(p) Clauses specific to the agreement;
(q) Other Rent, e.g., charges for antenna sites, land;
(r) Agency standard clauses; and
(s) General clauses defining the obligations of both parties.
§ 102-85.60
Who can execute an OA?
Authorized GSA and customer agency officials who can commit or obligate the funds of their respective agencies can execute an OA. Higher level signatories may be appropriate from both agencies for space assignments in owned or leased space, that are unusual in size, location, duration, public interest, or other factors. Each agency decides its appropriate signatory level.
§ 102-85.65
How does an OA obligate the customer agency?
An OA obligates the executing customer agency to fund the current-year Rent obligation owed GSA, as well as to reimburse GSA for any other
bona fide
obligations that GSA may have incurred on behalf of the customer agency. Although the OA is an interagency agreement, memorializing the understanding of GSA and its customer agency, the OA may not be construed as obligating future year customer agency funds until they are legally available. A multi-year OA commitment assumes the customer agency will seek the necessary funding through budget and appropriations processes.
§ 102-85.70
Are the standard OA terms appropriate for non-cancelable space?
Yes, most of the standard terms apply; however, the right to cancel upon a 4-month (120 day) notice is not available. See § 102-85.35 for the definition of non-cancelable space.
§ 102-85.75
When can space assignments be terminated?
(a) Customer agencies can terminate any space assignments, except those designated as non-cancelable, with the following stipulations:
(1) The agency must give GSA written notice at least four months prior to termination.
(2) The agency is responsible for reimbursing GSA for the unpaid balance of the cost of tenant improvements, generally prior to GSA releasing the agency from the space assignment. In the event the customer agency received a rent concession (e.g., free rent) at the inception of the assignment as part of the consideration for the entire lease term, then the amount of the concession applicable to the remaining term must be repaid to GSA.
(3) If the space to be vacated is ready for occupancy by another customer and marketable, GSA accepts the termination of assignment.
(4) If the agency has vacated all of the space and removed all personal property and equipment from the space by the cancellation date in the written notice, the agency will be released effective that date from further Rent payments.
(5) An agency may terminate a GSA space assignment with less than a four-month advance written notice to GSA, if:
(i) Either GSA or the terminating agency has identified another agency customer for the assigned space and that substitute agency wants and is able to fully assume the Rent payments due from the terminating agency; and
(ii) The terminating agency continues to pay Rent until the new agency starts paying Rent.
(b) GSA can terminate space assignments according to GSA regulations for emergency or forced moves.
(c) OAs terminate automatically at expiration.
§ 102-85.80
Who is financially responsible for expenses resulting from tenant non-performance?
The customer agencies are financially responsible for expenses incurred by the Government as a result of any failure on their part to fulfill a commitment outlined in an OA or other written agreements in advance of, or in addition to, the OA. Customer agencies are also financially responsible for revised design costs and any additional costs resulting from changes to space requirements or space layouts made by the agency after a lease, alteration, design, or construction contract has been awarded by GSA.
§ 102-85.85
What if a customer agency participates in a consolidation?
If an agency agrees to participate in a consolidation upon expiration of an OA, the relocation expenses will be addressed in the new OA negotiated by GSA and the customer agency. The customer agency generally pays such costs.

# Subpart C—Tenant Improvement Allowance
§ 102-85.90
What is a tenant improvement allowance?
A tenant improvement (TI) allowance enables the customer agency to design, configure and build out space to support its program operations. It is based on local market construction costs and the specific bureau's historical use of space. (See also the definition at § 102-85.35.)
§ 102-85.95
Who pays for the TI allowance?
The customer agency pays for the amount of the tenant improvement allowance actually used.
§ 102-85.100
How does a customer agency pay for tenant improvements?
To pay for the installation of tenant improvements, the customer agency may spend an amount not to exceed the tenant allowance. The amount spent by the customer agency for TIs is amortized over a period of time specified in the OA, not to exceed the useful life of the improvements. This amortization payment is in addition to the shell rent and services.
§ 102-85.105
How does an agency pay for customer alterations that exceed the TI allowance?
Amounts exceeding the TI allowance are paid in a one-time lump sum and are not amortized over the term of the occupancy. The agency certifies lump sum funds are available prior to GSA proceeding with the work.
§ 102-85.110
Can the allowance amount be changed?
The GSA schedule of allowances for new assignments is adjusted annually for design and construction cost changes. As the need arises, GSA may adjust an agency or bureau's TI allowance. GSA may also adjust a TI allowance for a specific project, if conditions warrant. This decision is solely GSA's. In addition, the customer agency may waive any part or all of its customization allowance in the case of a new space assignment. In the case of backfill space (also known as relet space), the customer agency can also waive any part or all of the tenant general allowance, if the customer agency will use the existing tenant improvements, with or without modifications.

# Subpart D—Rent Charges
§ 102-85.115
How is the Rent determined?
Unless an exemption is granted under the authority of the Administrator of General Services, the Rent charged approximates commercial charges for comparable space and space-related services as follows:
(a) Generally, Rent for Federally owned space provided by GSA is based on market appraisals of fully serviced rental values for the predominant use to which space in a building is put; e.g., general use, warehouse use, and parking use. In cases where market appraisals are not practical; e.g., in cases involving unique space or when market comparables are not available, GSA may establish Rent on the basis of alternate commercial practices. See the discussion of alternate valuation methods in § 102-85.125. Amortization of tenant improvements, parking fees, and security charges are calculated separately and added to the appraised shell Rent to establish the Rent charge. Customer agencies also pay for a pro rata share of joint use space.
(b) Generally, Rent for space leased by GSA is based on the actual cost of the lease, including the costs (if any) of services not provided by the lessor, plus a GSA fee, and security charges and parking (if not in the lease).
(1) The Rent is based on the terms and conditions of the OA, starting with the shell Rent.
(2) In addition to the shell Rent, the Rent includes amortization of TI allowances used, real estate taxes, operating costs, extra services, parking, GSA fee
for its services, and charges for security, joint-use, and other applicable rental charges (e.g., antenna site, land, wareyard).
§ 102-85.120
What is shell Rent?
Shell Rent is that portion of GSA Rent charged for the building envelope and land. (See § 102-85.35 for the definition of building shell.)
§ 102-85.125
What alternate methods may be used to establish Rent in Federally-owned space?
Alternate methods of establishing Rent are based on private sector models. They include, but are not limited to:
(a) Return on investment (ROI) approach or a similar cost recovery method used when market comparables are not available and/or GSA must “build to suit” to fulfill customer agency requirements; e.g., border stations; and
(b) Rent schedules for the right to use rooftops and other floor areas not suitable for workspace; e.g., antenna sites and signage.
§ 102-85.130
How are exemptions from Rent granted?
Exemptions from Rent are rare. However, the Administrator of General Services may exempt any GSA customer from Rent after a determination that application of Rent would not be feasible or practical. Customer agency requests for exemptions must be addressed to the Administrator of General Services and submitted in accordance with GSA Order PBS 4210.1, “Rent Exemption Procedures,” dated December 20, 1991, or in accordance with any superseding GSA order. A copy of the order may be obtained from the Office of Portfolio Management, General Services Administration, 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405.
§ 102-85.135
What if space and services are provided by other executive agencies?
Any executive agency other than GSA providing space and services is authorized to charge the occupant for the space and services at rates approved by the Administrator of General Services and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. If space and services are of the type provided by the Administrator of General Services, the executive agency providing the space and services must credit the monies derived from any fees or charges to the appropriation or fund initially charged for providing the space or services, as prescribed by Subsection 210(k) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(k)).
§ 102-85.140
How are changes in Rent reflected in OAs?
(a) If Rent changes in ways that are identified in the OA, then no change to the OA is required. Typically, OAs state that certain components of Rent are subject to annual escalation; e.g., operating expenses, real estate taxes, parking charges, the basic security charge, and building-specific security operating and amortized capital expenses which do not entail a change in service level. Also, in Federally-owned space, OAs state that the shell rent is re-marked to market every five years. In leased space, the OA will identify any programmed changes in the lease contract rent (such as pre-set increases or steps in the contract rent rate) that will translate into a change in the customer agency's Rent. Changes in Rent specified in OAs will serve as notice to agencies of future Rent changes for budgeting purposes. For a discussion of budgeting for Rent, see § 102-85.160.
(b) Changes to Rent other than those identified in paragraph (a) of this section typically require an amended OA. There are many events that might occasion a change in Rent, and an amended OA, such as:
(1) An agency expands or contracts at an existing location;
(2) PBS agrees to fund additional tenant improvements that are then amortized over the remaining OA term, or over an extended OA term;
(3) Upon physical re-measurement, the true square footage of the space assignment is found to be different from the square footage of record;
(4) The amount of joint use space in the building changes;
(5) The level of building-specific security services changes; or
(6) PBS undertakes new capital expenditures for new or enhanced security countermeasures.
§ 102-85.145
When are customer agencies responsible for Rent charges?
(a) When a customer agency occupies cancelable space, it is responsible for Rent charges until:
(1) The date of release specified in the OA, or until the date space is actually vacated, whichever occurs later; or
(2) Four months after having provided GSA written notice of release; or
(3) The date space is actually vacated, whenever occupancy extends beyond the date agreed upon under either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(b) When a customer agency releases non-cancelable space, it is responsible for all attributable Rent and other space charges until the OA expires. This responsibility is mitigated to the extent that GSA is able to assign the space to another user or dispose of it. (See § 102-85.65 How does an OA obligate the customer agency?)
(c) When a customer agency commits to occupy space in an OA or other binding document, but never occupies that space, that agency is responsible for:
(1) Non-cancelable space: Rent payments due for the space until the OA expires, unless GSA can mitigate; or
(2) All other space: Either GSA's space charges for 4 months plus the cost of tenant improvements or GSA's actual costs, whichever is less.
§ 102-85.150
How will Rent charges be reflected on the customer agency's Rent bill?
Rent charges are billed monthly, in arrears, based on an annual rate which is divided by 12. Billing commences the first month in which the agency occupies the space for more than half of the month, and ends in the last month the agency occupies the space.
§ 102-85.155
What does a customer agency do if it does not agree with a Rent bill?
(a) If a customer agency does not agree with the way GSA has determined its Rent obligation (e.g., the agency does not agree with GSA's space classification, appraised Rent, or the allocation of space), the agency may appeal its Rent bill to GSA.
(b) GSA will not increase or otherwise change Rent for any assignment, except as agreed in an OA, in the case of errors, or when the OA is amended. However, customer agencies may at any time request a regional review of the measurement, classification, service levels provided, or charges assessed that pertain to the space assignment without resorting to formal procedures. Such requests do not constitute appeals and should be directed to the appropriate GSA Regional Administrator.
(c) If a customer agency still wants to pursue a formal appeal of Rent charges, they may do so, but with the following limitations:
(1) Terms, including rates, to which the parties agree in an OA are not appealable;
(2) In leased space, the contract rent passed through from the underlying lease cannot be appealed;
(3) In GSA-owned space, when the fully-serviced shell Rent is established through appraisal, the appraised rate must exceed comparable commercial square foot rates by 20 percent. When shell Rent in owned space is established on the basis of ROI at the inception of an OA, and the customer agency executes the OA, then the ROI rate cannot later be appealed. Other components of Rent that are established on the basis of actual cost—eg., amortization of TIs and building specific security charges—also cannot be appealed.
(4) Additionally, the customer agency is required to compare its assigned space with other space in the surrounding community that:
(i) Is available in similar size block of space in a comparable location;
(ii) Is comparable in quality to the space provided by GSA;
(iii) Provides similar service levels as part of the charges;
(iv) Contains similar contractual terms, conditions, and escalations clauses; and
(v) Represents a lease transaction completed at a similar point in time.
(5) Data from at least three comparable locations will be necessary to demonstrate a market trend sufficient
to warrant revising an appraised Rent charge.
(d) A customer agency filing an appeal for a particular location or building must develop documentation supporting the appeal and file the appeal with the appropriate Regional Administrator. The GSA regional office will verify all pertinent information and documentation supporting the appeal. The GSA Regional Administrator will accept or deny the appeal and will notify the appealing agency of his or her ruling.
(e) A further appeal may be filed by the customer agency's headquarters level officials with the Commissioner, Public Buildings Service, if equitable resolution has not been obtained from the initial appeal. A head of a customer agency may further appeal to the Administrator of the General Services. Documentation of the procedures followed for prior resolution must accompany an appeal to the Administrator. Decisions made by the Administrator are final.
(f) Adjustments of Rent resulting from reviews and appeals will be effective in the month that the agency submitted a properly documented appeal. Adjustments in Rent made under this section remain in effect for the remainder of the 5-year period in which the charges cited in the OA were applicable.
§ 102-85.160
How does a customer agency know how much to budget for Rent?
GSA normally provides customer agencies an estimate of Rent increases approximately 2 months prior to the agencies' Office of Management and Budget (OMB) submission for the fiscal year in which GSA will charge Rent. This gives the affected customer agencies an opportunity to budget for an increase or decrease. However, GSA must obtain the concurrence of OMB for such changes prior to notifying customer agencies. In the event GSA is unable to provide timely notice of a future Rent increase, customer agencies are nonetheless obligated to pay the increased Rent amount. For existing assignments in owned buildings, GSA charges for fully serviced shell Rent, in aggregate, shall not exceed the bureau level budget estimates provided to the customer agencies annually. This provision does not apply to:
(a) New assignments;
(b) Changes in current assignments;
(c) Leased space;
(d) New tenant improvement amortization;
(e) Building specific security costs; and
(f) New amortization of capital expenditures under ROI pricing due to changes in scope of proposed projects or repair and/or replacement of building components

# Subpart E—Standard Levels of Service
§ 102-85.165
What are standard levels of service?
(a) The standard levels of service covered by GSA Rent are comparable to those furnished in commercial practice. They are based on the effort required to service the customer agency's space for a 5-day week (Monday to Friday), one-shift regular work schedule. GSA will provide adequate building startup services, before the beginning of the customer's regular one-shift work schedule, and shutdown services after the end of this schedule.
(b) Without additional charge, GSA customers may use their assigned space and supporting automatic elevator systems, lights and small office and business machines including personal computers on an incidental basis, unless specified otherwise in the OA.
§ 102-85.170
Can flexitime and other alternative work schedules cost the customer agency more?
Yes, GSA customers who extend their regular work schedule by a system of flexible hours shall reimburse GSA for its approximate cost of the additional services required.
§ 102-85.175
Are the standard level services for cleaning, mechanical operation, and maintenance identified in an OA?
Unless specified otherwise in the OA, standard level services for cleaning, mechanical operation, and maintenance shall be provided in accordance with the GSA standard level of services
as defined in § 102-85.165, and in the PBS Customer Guide to Real Property. A copy of the guide may be obtained from the General Services Administration, Office of Business Performance (PX), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405.
§ 102-85.180
Can there be other standard services?
GSA may provide additional services to its customers at the levels and times deemed by the Administrator of General Services to be necessary for efficient operations and proper servicing of space under the assignment responsibility of GSA.
§ 102-85.185
Can space be exempted from the standard levels of service
Yes, customer agencies may be excused from paying for standard service levels for space assignments when:
(a) In GSA-delegated space, the customer agency provides for these services itself and thus pays Rent minus charges for these services; or
(b) In rare instances, standard service levels may be waived by the Administrator of General Services in instances where charging for such standard services would not be feasible or practical, e.g., in assignments of limited square footage or functional use.
§ 102-85.190
Can GSA Rent be adjusted when standard levels of service are performed by other customer agencies?
Customer agencies that arrange and pay separately for the costs of standard level services normally covered by GSA Rent will receive a Rent credit or other type of reimbursement by GSA for the amount GSA would have charged for such services. The type of reimbursement is at GSA's discretion. The reimbursement is limited to the amount included for the services in GSA Rent. Approval to perform or contract for such services must be obtained in advance by the customer agency from the appropriate GSA regional office.

# Subpart F—Special Services
§ 102-85.195
Does GSA provide special services?
Yes, GSA provides special services on a cost-reimbursable basis:
(a) In GSA-controlled space, GSA may provide for special services that cannot be separated from the building or space costs (inseparable services, such as utilities, which are not individually metered). GSA's estimate of the special service cost is the basis for the bill amount. The bill amount for separable special services is either based on a previously agreed upon fixed price or the actual cost, including a fee for GSA's services.
(b) GSA can also provide special services to other Federal agencies in agency-controlled and operated space on a cost-reimbursable basis.

# Subpart G—Continued Occupancy, Relocation and Forced Moves
§ 102-85.200
Can customer agencies continue occupancy of space or must they relocate at the end of an OA?
The answer is contingent upon whether the customer agency is in Federally owned or leased space.
(a) Unless stated otherwise in the OA, a customer agency within a GSA controlled, Federally owned building has automatic occupancy rights at the end of the OA term for occupied space. However, a new OA must be negotiated.
(b) In leased space, the OA generally reflects the provisions of the underlying lease and will specify whether or not renewal options are available. If the OA does not include a renewal option, customer agencies should assume relocation would be necessary upon OA expiration, and budget for it. Further, renewal options are not, in themselves, a guarantee of continued occupancy at that location. In some cases, the renewal rate is substantially above market or the option was not part of the initial price evaluation for the occupancy. In such cases, GSA may be required to run a competition for the replacement lease, and a relocation may ensue. Nonetheless, it is also possible that GSA may execute a succeeding
lease with the incumbent lessor, in which case there is no move.
(c) GSA and customer agencies should initiate discussions at least 18-20 months in advance of OA expiration to address an action for the replacement or continued occupancy of the existing space assignment. This allows both agencies time to budget for the work and the cost.
§ 102-85.205
What happens if a customer agency continues occupancy after the expiration of an OA?
A mutual goal of GSA and its customers is to have current OAs in place for all space assignments. However, provisions are necessary to cover the GSA and customer relationship if an OA expires prior to execution of a mutually desired succeeding agreement. Because the risks, liabilities, and consequences of a customer's continued occupancy depend on whether the assigned space is leased or Federally owned, different provisions in the following table apply:
Holdover Tenancy—Customer Agency Responsibilities in the Event of Tenant Delay in Vacating Space
In leased space
In federally owned space
To pay those costs associated with lease contract, GSA fee, and damages/claims, arising from changes in GSA contract costs which are caused by the tenant's delay
To pay Rent as determined by GSA's pricing policy, as described in this part, and those added costs to GSA (claims, damages, changes, etc.) resulting from the tenant-caused delay.
§ 102-85.210
What if a customer agency has to relocate?
If the agency or GSA determines relocation is necessary at the expiration of an OA for either Federally owned or leased space, the customer agency is responsible for all costs associated with relocation at that time.
§ 102-85.215
What if another customer agency forces a GSA customer to move?
If a GSA customer agency, or GSA, forces the relocation of another GSA customer agency prior to the expiration of the customer's OA, the “forcing” agency is responsible:
(a) For all reasonable costs associated with the relocation of the agency being “forced” to move, including architectural-engineering design, move coordination and physical relocation, telecommunications and ADP equipment relocation and installation;
(b) To GSA for all of the relocated agency's unpaid tenant improvements, if any; and
(c) To the customer agency for the undepreciated amount of any lump sum payment that was already made by the agency for alterations.
§ 102-85.220
Can a customer agency forced to relocate waive the reimbursements?
Yes, a customer agency forced to relocate can waive some or all of the reimbursements from the forcing agency that are prescribed in § 102-85.215. However, a relocated customer agency cannot waive the requirement for the forcing customer agency to reimburse GSA for unpaid tenant improvements. If GSA is the “forcing” agency, it is responsible for the same costs as any other forcing customer agency.
§ 102-85.225
What are the funding responsibilities for relocations resulting from emergencies?
(a) In emergencies, swift remedies, including the possible relocation of a customer agency to alternate space, are required. The remedies may include requests for funding authorizations from OMB and Congress. GSA may serve as the central coordinator of such remedies.
(b) Funding responsibility will vary by situation. If a customer agency is only temporarily displaced from its space, GSA typically covers the cost of temporary set-up in a provisional location. If the agency is obliged to relocate permanently, an OA will be prepared which will address all terms of the occupancy. In such cases, new tenant improvements will be constructed which can be amortized over the life of a new occupancy term, and a new Rent rate will be developed.
PARTS 102-86—102-115 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER D—TRANSPORTATION
PART 102-116—GENERAL [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-117

# PART 102-117—TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
102-117.5
What is transportation management?
102-117.10
What is the scope of this part?
102-117.15
To whom does this part apply?
102-117.20
Are any agencies exempt from this part?
102-117.25
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Acquiring Transportation or Related Services
102-117.30
What choices do I have when acquiring transportation or related services?
102-117.35
What are the advantages and disadvantages to using GSA's tender of service?
102-117.40
When is it advantageous for me to use another agency's contract or rate tender for transportation services?
102-117.45
What other factors must I consider when using another agency's contract or rate tender?
102-117.50
What are the advantages and disadvantages of contracting directly with a TSP under FAR?
102-117.55
What are the advantages and disadvantages of using a rate tender?
102-117.60
What is the importance of the terms and conditions in a rate tender or other transportation document?
102-117.65
What terms and conditions must all rate tenders or contracts include?
102-117.70
Where do I find more information on terms and conditions?
102-117.75
How do I reference the rate tender on transportation documents?
102-117.80
How are rate tenders filed?
102-117.85
What is the difference between a Government bill of lading (GBL) and a bill of lading?
102-117.90
May I use a U.S. Government bill of lading (GBL) to acquire freight, household goods or other related transportation services?
102-117.95
What transportation documents must I use to acquire freight, household goods or other related transportation services?

# Subpart C—Business Rules To Consider Before Shipping Freight or Household Goods
102-117.100
What business rules must I consider before acquiring transportation or related services?
102-117.105
What does best value mean when routing a shipment?
102-117.110
What is satisfactory service?
102-117.115
How do I calculate total delivery costs?
102-117.120
To what extent must I equally distribute orders for transportation and related services among TSPs?
102-117.125
How detailed must I describe property for shipment when communicating to a TSP?
102-117.130
Must I select TSPs who use alternative fuels?

# Subpart D—Restrictions That Affect International Transportation of Freight and Household Goods
102-117.135
What are the international transportation restrictions?
102-117.140
What is cargo preference?
102-117.145
What are coastwise laws?
102-117.150
What do I need to know about coastwise laws?
102-117.155
Where do I go for further information about coastwise laws?

# Subpart E—Shipping Freight
102-117.160
What is freight?
102-117.165
What shipping process must I use for freight?
102-117.170
What reference materials are available to ship freight?
102-117.175
What factors do I consider to determine the mode of transportation?
102-117.180
What transportation documents must I use to ship freight?
102-117.185
Where must I send a copy of the transportation documents?
102-117.190
Where do I file a claim for loss or damage to property?
102-117.195
Are there time limits affecting filing of a claim?

# Subpart F—Shipping Hazardous Material (HAZMAT)
102-117.200
What is HAZMAT?
102-117.205
What are the restrictions for transporting HAZMAT?
102-117.210
Where can I get guidance on transporting HAZMAT?

# Subpart G—Shipping Household Goods
102-117.215
What are household goods (HHG)?
102-117.220
What choices do I have to ship HHG?
102-117.225
What is the difference between a contract or rate tender and a commuted rate system?
102-117.230
Must I compare costs between a contract or rate tender and the commuted rate system before choosing which method to use?
102-117.235
How do I get a cost comparison?
102-117.240
What is my agency's financial responsibility to an employee who chooses to move all or part of their HHG under the commuted rate system?
102-117.245
What is my responsibility in providing guidance to an employee who wishes to use the commuted rate system?
102-117.250
What are my responsibilities after shipping the household goods?
102-117.255
What actions may I take if the TSP's performance is not satisfactory?
102-117.260
What are my responsibilities to employees regarding the TSP's liability for loss or damage claims?
102-117.265
Are there time limits that affect filing a claim with a TSP for loss or damage?

# Subpart H—Performance Measures
102-117.270
What are agency performance measures for transportation?

# Subpart I—Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Performance
102-117.275
What performance must I expect from a TSP?
102-117.280
What aspects of the TSP's performance are important to measure?
102-117.285
What are my choices if a TSP's performance is not satisfactory?
102-117.290
What is the difference between temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment?
102-117.295
Who makes the decisions on temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment?
102-117.300
Do the decisions on temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment go beyond the agency?
102-117.305
Where do I go for information on the process for suspending or debarring a TSP?
102-117.310
What records must I keep on temporary nonuse, suspension or debarment of a TSP?
102-117.315
Who must I notify on suspension or debarment of a TSP?

# Subpart J—Representation Before Regulatory Body Proceedings
102-117.320
What is a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
102-117.325
May my agency appear on its own behalf before a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
102-117.330
When, or under what circumstances, would GSA delegate authority to an agency to appear on its own behalf before a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
102-117.335
How does my agency ask for a delegation of authority to represent itself in a regulatory body proceeding?
102-117.340
What other types of assistance may GSA provide agencies in dealing with regulatory bodies?

# Subpart K—Transportation Reporting
102-117.345
[Reserved]
102-117.350
Do I have to report transportation data?
102-117.355
Why should I report?
102-117.356
What information should I report?
102-117.360
[Reserved]

# Subpart L—Government-wide Transportation Policy
102-117.361
What is the Government-wide Transportation Policy Council (GTPC)?
102-117.362
Where can I get more information about the GTPC?

# Subpart M—Recommendations for Authorization and Qualifications to Acquire Transportation Using a Rate Tender
102-117.365
What are the responsibilities of a Transportation Officer?
102-117.370
Should I have a Transportation Officer warrant to acquire transportation services using a rate tender?
102-117.375
Are there instances where a Transportation Officer warrant is not necessary to acquire transportation services?
102-117.380
What should be contained in a Transportation Officer warrant to acquire transportation services?
102-117.385
Is there a standard format for a Transportation Officer warrant?
102-117.390
What are the recommended Transportation Officer training and/or experience levels?
102-117.395
Should I continue my training to maintain my warrant?
102-117.400
How should my warrant be documented?

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3726; 40 U.S.C. 121(c); 40 U.S.C. 501,
et seq.;
46 U.S.C. 55305; 49 U.S.C. 40118.

# Source:
65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 102-117.5
What is transportation management?
Transportation management is agency oversight of the physical movement of commodities, household goods (HHG) and other freight from one location to another by a transportation service provider (TSP).
§ 102-117.10
What is the scope of this part?
This part addresses shipping freight and household goods worldwide. Freight is property or goods transported as cargo. Household goods are not Government property, but are employees' personal property entrusted to the Government for shipment.
§ 102-117.15
To whom does this part apply?
This part applies to all agencies and wholly-owned Government corporations as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101,
et seq.
and 31 U.S.C. 9101(3), except as otherwise expressly provided.
[79 FR 33476, June 11, 2014]
§ 102-117.20
Are any agencies exempt from this part?
(a) The Department of Defense is exempted from this part by an agreement under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 501
et seq.
), except for the rules to debar or suspend a TSP under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4).
(b) Subpart D of this part, covering household goods, does not apply to the uniformed service members, under Title 37 of the United States Code, “Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services,” including the uniformed service members serving in civilian agencies such as the U.S. Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Public Health Service.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.25
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Accessorial charges
means charges that are applied to the base tariff rate or base contract of carriage rate. Examples of accessorial charges are:
(1) Bunkers, destination/delivery, container surcharges, and currency exchange for international shipments.
(2) Inside delivery, redelivery, re-consignment, and demurrage or detention for freight.
(3) Packing, unpacking, appliance servicing, blocking and bracing, and special handling for household goods.
Agency
means a department, agency, and independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101
et seq.,
and a wholly-owned Government corporation as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(3).
Bill of lading (BOL),
sometimes referred to as a commercial bill of lading, but includes a Government bill of lading (GBL), means the document used as a receipt of goods, a contract of carriage, and documentary evidence of title.
Cargo preference
is the legal requirement for all, or a portion of all, ocean-borne cargo to be transported on U.S. flag vessels.
Commuted rate system
is the system under which an agency may allow its employees to make their own household goods shipping arrangements, and apply for reimbursement.
Consignee
is the person or agent to whom freight or household goods are delivered.
Consignor,
also referred to as the shipper, is the person or firm that ships freight or household goods to a consignee.
Contract of carriage
is a contract between the TSP and the agency to transport freight or household goods.
Debarment
is an action to exclude a TSP, for a period of time, from providing services under a rate tender or any contract under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.406).
Declared value
means the actual value of cargo as declared by the agency for reimbursement purposes or to establish duties, taxes, or other customs fees.
The
declared value
is the maximum amount that could be recovered by the agency in the event of loss or damage for the shipments of freight and household goods, unless the declared value exceeds the carrier's released value (see “Released value”). The statement of declared value must be shown on any applicable tariff, tender, contract, bill of lading, or other document covering the shipment.
Demurrage
is the penalty charge to an agency for delaying the agreed time to load or unload shipments by rail or ocean TSPs.
Detention
is the penalty charge to an agency for delaying the agreed time to load or unload shipments by truck TSPs. It is also a penalty charge in some ocean shipping contracts of carriage that take effect after the demurrage time ends.
Electronic commerce
is an electronic technique for carrying out business transactions (ordering and paying for goods and services), including electronic mail or messaging, Internet technology, electronic bulletin boards, charge cards, electronic funds transfers, and electronic data interchange.
Foreign flag vessel
is any vessel of foreign registry including vessels owned by U.S. citizens but registered in a foreign country.
Freight
is property or goods transported as cargo.
Government bill of lading (GBL)
means the transportation document used as a receipt of goods, evidence of title, and a contract of carriage for Government international shipments (see Bill of Lading (BOL) definition).
Government-wide Transportation Policy Council (GTPC)
is an interagency forum to help GSA formulate policy. It provides agencies managing transportation programs a forum to exchange information and ideas to solve common problems. For further information on this council, see website:
https://gsa.gov/transportationpolicy
.
Hazardous material (HAZMAT)
is a substance or material the Secretary of Transportation determines to be an unreasonable risk to health, safety, and property when transported in commerce, and labels as hazardous under section 5103 of the Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Law (49 U.S.C. 5103
et seq.
). When transported internationally hazardous material may be classified as “Dangerous Goods.” All such freight must be marked in accordance with applicable regulations and the carrier must be notified in advance.
Household goods (HHG)
are the personal effects of Government employees and their dependents.
Line-Haul
is the movement of freight between cities excluding pickup and delivery service.
Mode
is a method of transportation, such as rail, motor, air, water, or pipeline.
Rate schedule
is a list of freight rates, taxes, and charges assessed against non-household goods cargo.
Rate tender
is an offer a TSP sends to an agency, containing service rates and charges.
Receipt
is a written or electronic acknowledgment by the consignee or TSP as to when and where a shipment was received.
Released value
means an assigned value of the cargo for reimbursement purposes that is not necessarily the actual value of the cargo. Released value may be more or less than the actual value of the cargo; however, in the event of loss or damage to the shipment, if the released value exceeds the actual value, reimbursement would be the lesser of the two values. When the released value is agreed upon as the basis of reimbursement and the actual value exceeds the released value, the released value is the maximum amount that could be recovered by the agency in the event of loss or damage to the shipments of freight or household goods. When negotiating for rates and the released value is proposed to be less than the actual value of the cargo, the TSP should offer a rate lower than other rates for shipping cargo at full value. The statement of released value may be shown in any applicable tariff, tender, contract, transportation document or other documents covering the shipment.
Reparation
is a payment to or from an agency to correct an improper transportation billing involving a TSP. Improper routing, overcharges or duplicate payments may cause such improper billing. This is different from a
payment to settle a claim for loss and damage.
Suspension
is an action taken by an agency to disqualify a TSP from receiving orders for certain services under a contract or rate tender (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.407).
Third Party Logistics (3PL)
is an entity that provides multiple logistics services for use by customers. Among the transportation services that 3PLs generally provide are integration transportation, warehousing, cross-docking, inventory management, packaging, and freight forwarding.
Transportation document (TD)
means any executed document for transportation service, such as a bill of lading, a tariff, a tender, a contract, a Government Transportation Request (GTR), invoices, paid invoices, any transportation bills, or other equivalent documents, including electronic documents.
Transportation Officer (TO)
is a person authorized, in accordance with this part, to select transportation service providers using rate tenders. Duties may include, but are not limited to, selecting Third Party Logistics (3PL) or Transportation Service Providers (TSP), and issuing bills of lading.
Transportation Officer Warrant
is an agency-issued document that authorizes a Transportation Officer (TO) to procure transportation services using rate tenders, which may include, but are not limited to, selecting Third Party Logistics (3PL) or Transportation Service Providers (TSP), issuing bills of lading, and otherwise performing the duties of a TO.
Transportation service provider (TSP)
means any party, person, agent, or carrier that provides freight, household goods, or passenger transportation or related services to an agency.
U.S. flag air carrier
is an air carrier holding a certificate issued by the United States under 49 U.S.C. 41102 (49 U.S.C. 40118, 48 CFR part 47, subpart 47.4).
U.S. flag vessel
is a commercial vessel, registered and operated under the laws of the U.S., owned and operated by U.S. citizens, and used in commercial trade of the United States.
[65 FR 60060, Oct. 6, 2000; 65 FR 81405, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010; 79 FR 55365, Sept. 16, 2014; 81 FR 65298, Sept. 22, 2016; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart B—Acquiring Transportation or Related Services
§ 102-117.30
What choices do I have when acquiring transportation or related services?
When you acquire transportation or related services you may:
(a) Use the GSA tender of service;
(b) Use another agency's contract or rate tender with a TSP only if allowed by the terms of that agreement or if the Administrator of General Services delegates authority to another agency to enter an agreement available to other Executive agencies;
(c) Contract directly with a TSP using the acquisition procedures under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR chapter 1); or
(d) Negotiate a rate tender under a Federal transportation procurement statute, 49 U.S.C. 10721 or 13712.
§ 102-117.35
What are the advantages and disadvantages of using GSA's tender of service?
(a) It is an advantage to use GSA's tender of service when you want to:
(1) Use GSA's authority to negotiate on behalf of the Federal Government and take advantage of the lower rates and optimum service that result from a larger volume of business;
(2) Use a uniform tender of service;
(3) Obtain assistance with loss and damage claims; and
(4) Use GSA's Transportation management and operations expertise.
(b) It is a disadvantage to use GSA's tender of service when:
(1) You want an agreement that is binding for a longer term than the GSA tender of service;
(2) You have sufficient time to follow FAR contracting procedures and are in position to make volume or shipment commitments under a FAR contract; and
(3) Rates are not cost effective, as determined by the agency.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.40
When is it advantageous for me to use another agency's contract or rate tender for transportation services?
It is advantageous to use another agency's contract or rate tender for transportation services when the contract or rate tender offers better or equal value than otherwise available to you.
§ 102-117.45
What other factors must I consider when using another agency's contract or rate tender?
When using another agency's contract or rate tender, you must:
(a) Assure that the contract or rate tender meets any special requirements unique to your agency;
(b) Pay any other charges imposed by the other agency for external use of their contract or rate tender;
(c) Ensure the terms of the other agency's contract or rate tender allow you to use it; and
(d) Ensure that the agency offering this service has the authority or a delegation of authority from GSA to offer such services to your agency.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.50
What are the advantages and disadvantages of contracting directly with a TSP under the FAR?
(a) The FAR is an advantage to use when:
(1) You ship consistent volumes in consistent traffic lanes;
(2) You have sufficient time to follow FAR contracting procedures; and
(3) Your contract office is able to handle the requirement.
(b) The FAR may be a disadvantage when you:
(1) Cannot prepare and execute a FAR contract within your time frame;
(2) Have recurring shipments between designated places, but do not expect sufficient volume to obtain favorable rates; or
(3) Do not have the manpower to monitor quality control and administer a contract.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.55
What are the advantages and disadvantages of using a rate tender?
(a) Using a rate tender is an advantage when you:
(1) Have a shipment that must be made within too short a time frame to identify or solicit for a suitable contract;
(2) Have shipments recurring between designated places, but do not expect sufficient volume to obtain favorable rates; or
(3) Are not in a position to make a definite volume and shipment commitment under a FAR contract.
(b) Using a rate tender may be a disadvantage when:
(1) You have sufficient time to use the FAR and this would achieve better results;
(2) You require transportation service for which no rate tender currently exists; or
(3) A TSP may revoke or terminate the tender on short notice.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.60
What is the importance of terms and conditions in a rate tender or other transportation document?
Terms and conditions are important to protect the Government's interest and establish the performance and standards expected of the TSP. It is important to remember that terms and conditions are:
(a) Negotiated between the agency and the TSP before movement of any item; and
(b) Included in all contracts and rate tenders listing the services the TSP is offering to perform at the cost presented in the rate tender or other transportation document.

# Note to § 102-117.60:
You must reference the negotiated contract or rate tender on all transportation documents. For further information see § 102-117.65.
§ 102-117.65
What terms and conditions must all rate tenders or contracts include?
All rate tenders and contracts must include, at a minimum, the following terms and conditions:
(a) Charges cannot be prepaid.
(b) Charges are not paid at time of delivery.
(c) Interest shall accrue from the voucher payment date on overcharges made and shall be paid at the same rate in effect on that date as published by the Secretary of the Treasury according to the Debt Collection Act of 1982, 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(d) To qualify for the rates specified in a rate tender filed under the provisions of the Federal transportation procurement statutes (49 U.S.C. 10721 or 13712), property must be shipped by or for the Government and the rate tender must indicate the Government is either the consignor or the consignee and include the following statement:
Transportation is for the (agency name) and the total charges paid to the transportation service provider by the consignor or consignee are for the benefit of the Government.
(e) When using a rate tender for transportation under a cost-reimbursable contract, include the following statement in the rate tender:
Transportation is for the (agency name), and the actual total transportation charges paid to the transportation service provider by the consignor or consignee are to be reimbursed by the Government pursuant to cost reimbursable contract (number). This may be confirmed by contacting the agency representative at (name, address and telephone number).
(f) Other terms and conditions that may be specific to your agency or the TSP such as specialized packaging requirements or HAZMAT. For further information see the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook,” available at
https://gsa.gov/transaudits
.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.70
Where do I find more information on terms and conditions?
You may find more information about terms and conditions in part 102-118 of this chapter, or the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook” (see § 102-117.65(f)).
§ 102-117.75
How do I reference the rate tender on transportation documents?
To ensure proper reference of a rate tender on all shipments, you must show the applicable rate tender number and carrier identification on all transportation documents, such as, section 13712 quotation, “ABC Transportation Company, Tender Number * * *”.
§ 102-117.80
How are rate tenders filed?
(a) The TSP must file an electronic rate tender with your agency. Details of what must be included when submitting electronic tenders is located in § 102-118.260(b) of this subchapter.
(b) You must send two copies of the rate tender to: General Services Administration, Office of Travel, Employee Relocation and Transportation, Attn: Transportation Audits Division, 1800 F Street NW, 3rd Floor, Mail Hub 3400, Washington, DC 20405, or email:
(1)
SDDCRates@gsa.gov
subject line SDDC OTO Tenders (DoD only); or
(2)
TEAL-Library@gsa.gov
subject line GSA Rate Quotes, Tenders/Rate Quotes/Tariffs (all agencies except DoD).
[69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.85
What is the difference between a Government bill of lading (GBL) and a bill of lading?
(a) A Government bill of lading (GBL), Standard Form 1103, is a document that conveys specific terms and conditions to protect the Government interest and serves as the contract of carriage.
(b) A GBL is used only for international shipments.
(c) A bill of lading, sometimes referred to as a commercial bill of lading, establishes the terms of contract between a shipper and TSP. It serves as a receipt of goods, a contract of carriage, and documentary evidence of title.
(d) Use a bill of lading for Government shipments if the specific terms and conditions of a GBL are included in any contract or rate tender (see § 102-
117.65) and the bill of lading makes reference to that contract or rate tender (see § 102-117.75 and the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook”).
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.90
May I use a U.S. Government bill of lading (GBL) to acquire freight, household goods or other related transportation services?
You may use the Government bill of lading (GBL) only for international shipments (including domestic offshore shipments).
[75 FR 31393, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.95
What transportation documents must I use to acquire freight, household goods or other related transportation services?
(a) Bills of lading and purchase orders are the transportation documents you use to acquire freight, household goods shipments, and other transportation services. Terms and conditions in § 102-117.65 and the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook” are still required. For further information on payment methods, see part 102-118 of this chapter (41 CFR part 102-118).
(b) Government bills of lading (GBLs) are optional transportation documents for international shipments (including domestic offshore shipments).
[75 FR 31394, Aug. 20, 2010]

# Subpart C—Business Rules To Consider Before Shipping Freight or Household Goods
§ 102-117.100
What business rules must I consider before acquiring transportation or related services?
When acquiring transportation or related services you must:
(a) Use the mode or individual transportation service provider (TSP) that provides the overall best value to the agency. For more information, see §§ 102-117.105 through 102-117.130;
(b) Demonstrate no preferential treatment to any TSP when arranging for transportation services except on international shipments. Preference on international shipments must be given to United States registered commercial vessels and aircraft;
(c) Ensure that small businesses receive equal opportunity to compete for all business they can perform to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the agency's interest (see 48 CFR part 19);
(d) Encourage minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses, to compete for all business they can perform to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the agency's interest (see 48 CFR part 19);
(e) Review the need for insurance. Generally, the Government is self-insured; however, there are instances when the Government will purchase insurance coverage for Government property. An example may be cargo insurance for international air cargo shipments to cover losses over those allowed under the International Air Transport Association (IATA) or for ocean freight shipments; and
(f) Consider the added requirements on international transportation found in subpart D of this part.
§ 102-117.105
What does best value mean when routing a shipment?
Best value to your agency when routing a shipment means using the mode or individual TSP that provides satisfactory service with the best combination of service factors and price that meets the agency's requirements. A lower price may not be the best value if the service offered fails to meet the requirements of the shipment.
[75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.110
What is satisfactory service?
You should consider the following factors in assessing whether a TSP offers satisfactory service:
(a) Availability and suitability of the TSP's equipment;
(b) Adequacy of shipping and receiving facilities at origin and destination;
(c) Adequacy of pickup and/or delivery service;
(d) Availability of accessorial and special services;
(e) Estimated time in transit;
(f) Record of past performance of the TSP, including accuracy of billing and
past performance record with Government agencies;
(g) Capability of warehouse equipment and storage space;
(h) Experience of company, management, and personnel to perform the requirements;
(i) The TSP's safety record; and
(j) The TSP's loss and damage record, including claims resolution.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.115
How do I calculate total delivery costs?
You calculate total delivery costs for a shipment by considering all costs related to the shipping or receiving process, such as packing, blocking, bracing, drayage, loading and unloading, and transporting. Surcharges such as fuel, currency exchange, war risk insurance, and other surcharges should also be factored into the costs.
[75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.120
To what extent must I equally distribute orders for transportation and related services among TSPs?
You must assure that small businesses, socially or economically disadvantaged and women-owned TSPs have equal opportunity to provide the transportation or related services.
§ 102-117.125
How detailed must I describe property for shipment when communicating to a TSP?
You must describe property in enough detail for the TSP to determine the type of equipment or any special precautions necessary to move the shipment. Details might include weight, volume, measurements, routing, hazardous cargo, or special handling designations.
§ 102-117.130
Must I select TSPs who use alternative fuels?
No, but, whenever possible, you are encouraged to select TSPs that use alternative fuel vehicles and equipment, under policy in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7612) or the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13212).

# Subpart D—Restrictions That Affect International Transportation of Freight and Household Goods
§ 102-117.135
What are the international transportation restrictions?
Several statutes mandate the use of U.S. flag carriers for international shipments, such as 49 U.S.C. 40118, commonly referred to as the “Fly America Act”, and 46 U.S.C. 55305, the Cargo Preference Act of 1954, as amended. The principal restrictions are as follows:
(a)
Air cargo:
The use of foreign-flag air carriers when funded by the U.S. Government should be rare. International movement of cargo by air is subject to the Fly America Act, 49 U.S.C. 40118, which requires the use of U.S. flag air carrier service for all air cargo movements funded by the U.S. Government, including cargo shipped by contractors, grantees, and others at Government expense, except when one of the following exceptions applies:
(1) The transportation is provided under a bilateral or multilateral air transportation agreement to which the U.S. Government and the government of a foreign country are parties, and which the Department of Transportation has determined meets the requirements of the Fly America Act.
(i) Information on bilateral or multilateral air transport agreements impacting U.S. Government procured transportation can be accessed at
https://www.state.gov/civil-air-transport-agreements
and
(ii) If determined appropriate, GSA may periodically issue FMR Bulletins providing further guidance on bilateral or multilateral air transportation agreements impacting U.S. Government procured transportation. These bulletins may be accessed at
http://www.gsa.gov/bulletins;
(2) When the costs of transportation are reimbursed in full by a third party, such as a foreign government, an international agency, or other organization; or
(3) Use of a foreign air carrier is determined to be a matter of necessity by your agency, on a case-by-case basis, when:
(i) No U.S. flag air carrier can provide the specific air transportation needed;
(ii) No U.S. flag air carrier can meet the time requirements in cases of emergency;
(iii) There is a lack of or inadequate U.S. flag air carrier aircraft;
(iv) There is an unreasonable risk to safety when using a U.S. flag carrier aircraft (
e.g.,
terrorist threats). Written approval of the use of foreign air carrier service based on an unreasonable risk to safety must be approved by your agency on a case-by-case basis and must be supported by a travel advisory notice issued by the Federal Aviation Administration, Department of State, or the Transportation Security Administration; or
(v) No U.S. flag air carrier can accomplish the agency's mission.
(b)
Ocean cargo.
International movement of property by water is subject to the Cargo Preference Act of 1954, as amended, 46 U.S.C. 55305, and the implementing regulations found at 46 CFR part 381, which require the use of a U.S. flag carrier for at least 50% of the tonnage shipped by each department or agency when service is available (see 46 CFR 381.7). The Maritime Administration (MARAD) monitors agency compliance with these laws. All departments or agencies shipping Government-impelled cargo must comply with the reporting provisions of 46 CFR 381.3. For further information contact MARAD, Tel: 202-366-4610, Email:
cargo.marad@dot.gov
. For further information on international ocean shipping, go to:
https://www.maritime.dot.gov/ports/cargo-preference/cargo-preference
.
[79 FR 33476, June 11, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.140
What is cargo preference?
Cargo preference is the statutory requirement that all, or a portion of all, U.S. Government owned, procured, furnished, or financed ocean-borne cargo that moves internationally be transported on U.S. flag vessels.
[87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.145
What are coastwise laws?
Coastwise laws refer to laws governing shipment of freight, household goods and passengers by water between points in the United States or its territories. The purpose of these laws is to assure reliable shipping service and the existence of a maritime capability in times of war or national emergency (see section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 46 U.S.C. Chapter 551, 19 CFR 4.80).
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.150
What do I need to know about coastwise laws?
You need to know that:
(a) Goods transported entirely or partly by water between U.S. points, either directly or via a foreign port, must travel in U.S. flag vessels that have a coastwise endorsement;
(b) There are exceptions and limits for the U.S. Island territories and possessions in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans (see § 102-117.155); and
(c) The Commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection, by delegation of the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of the Treasury are authorized to impose monetary penalties against agencies that violate the coastwise laws.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.155
Where do I go for further information about coastwise laws?
You may refer to 46 U.S.C. Chapter 551, 19 CFR 4.80, DOT MARAD (202-336-4610 or
www.cargo.marad@dot.gov
), the U.S. Coast Guard or U.S. Customs and Border Protection for further information on exceptions to the coastwise laws.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart E—Shipping Freight
§ 102-117.160
What is freight?
Freight is property or goods transported as cargo.
§ 102-117.165
What shipping process must I use for freight?
Use the following shipping process for freight:
(a) For domestic shipments you must:
(1) Identify what you are shipping;
(2) Decide if the cargo is HAZMAT, classified, or sensitive that may require special handling or placards;
(3) Decide mode;
(4) Check for applicable contracts or rate tenders within your agency or other agencies, including GSA;
(5) Select the most efficient and economical TSP that gives the best value;
(6) Prepare shipping documents; and
(7) Schedule pickup, declare released value and ensure prompt delivery with a fully executed receipt, and oversee shipment.
(b) For international shipments you must follow all the domestic procedures and, in addition, comply with the cargo preference laws. For specific information, see subpart D of this part.
§ 102-117.170
What reference materials are available to ship freight?
(a) Information and guidance on shipping Government-owned freight is available at
https://gsa.gov/transportationpolicy
.
(b) Information on transportation programs is available at
https://gsa.gov/transportation
.
(c) Transportation handbooks are available at
https://gsa.gov/transaudits
.
(d) Resources related to the transportation of freight are available on the Acquisition Gateway (
https://hallways.cap.gsa.gov/
). See the Transportation and Logistics Services Hallway for information specific to shipping freight.
[87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.175
What factors do I consider to determine the mode of transportation?
Your shipping urgency and any special handling requirements determine which mode of transportation you select. Each mode has unique requirements for documentation, liability, size, weight and delivery time. HAZMAT, radioactive, and other specialized cargo may require special permits and may limit your choices.
§ 102-117.180
What transportation documents must I use to ship freight?
To ship freight:
(a) By land (domestic shipments), use a bill of lading;
(b) By land (international shipments), you may, but are not required to, use the optional GBL;
(c) By ocean, use an ocean bill of lading, when suitable, along with the GBL. You only need an ocean bill of lading for door-to-door movements; and
(d) By air, use a bill of lading.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010]
§ 102-117.185
Where must I send a copy of the transportation documents?
(a) You must forward an original copy of all transportation documents to: General Services Administration, Office of Travel, Employee Relocation and Transportation, Attn: Transportation Audits Division, 1800 F Street NW, 3rd Floor, Mail Hub 3400, Washington, DC 20405, or email:
(1)
SDDCRates@gsa.gov
—subject line SDDC OTO Tenders (DOD only).
(2)
TEAL-Libray@gsa.gov
—subject line GSA Rate Quotes, Tenders/Rate Quotes/Tariffs (all agencies except DOD).
(b) For all property shipments subject to cargo preference laws (see § 102-117.140), a copy of the ocean carrier's bill of lading, showing all freight charges, must be sent to MARAD within 20 working days of the date of loading for shipments originating in the United States, the District of Columbia, its territories or possessions and within 30 working days for shipments originating outside the United States, the District of Columbia, its territories or possessions.
[87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.190
Where do I file a claim for loss or damage to property?
You must file a claim for loss or damage to property with the TSP.
§ 102-117.195
Are there time limits affecting filing of a claim?
Yes, several statutes limit the time for administrative or judicial action against a TSP. Refer to part 102-118 of
this chapter for more information and the time limit tables.

# Subpart F—Shipping Hazardous Material (HAZMAT)
§ 102-117.200
What is HAZMAT?
HAZMAT is a substance or material the Secretary of Transportation determines to be an unreasonable risk to health, safety and property when transported in commerce. Therefore, there are restrictions on transporting HAZMAT (49 U.S.C. 5103
et seq.
).
§ 102-117.205
What are the restrictions for transporting HAZMAT?
Agencies that ship HAZMAT are subject to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation regulations, as well as applicable State and local government rules and regulations.
§ 102-117.210
Where can I get guidance on transporting HAZMAT?
The Secretary of Transportation prescribes regulations for the safe transportation of HAZMAT in intrastate, interstate, and foreign commerce in 49 CFR parts 171 through 180. The Environmental Protection Agency also prescribes regulations on transporting HAZMAT in 40 CFR parts 260 through 266. You may also call the HAZMAT information hotline at 1-800-467-4922 (Washington, DC area, call 202-366-4488).

# Subpart G—Shipping Household Goods
§ 102-117.215
What are household goods (HHG)?
Household goods (HHG) are the personal effects of Government employees and their dependents.
§ 102-117.220
What choices do I have to ship HHG?
(a) You may choose to ship HHG by:
(1) Using the commuted rate system;
(2) GSA's Centralized Household Goods Traffic Management Program (CHAMP);
(3) Contracting directly with a TSP, (including a relocation company that offers transportation services) using the acquisition procedures under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (see § 102-117.30);
(4) Using another agency's contract with a TSP (see §§ 102-117.40 and 102-117.45);
(5) Using a rate tender under the Federal transportation procurement statutes (49 U.S.C. 10721 or 13712) (see § 102-117.35).
(b) As an alternative to the choices in paragraph (a) of this section, you may request the Department of State to assist with shipments of HHG moving to, from, and between foreign countries or international shipments originating in the continental United States. The nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate may assist with arrangements of movements originating abroad. For further information contact:
Department of State
Transportation Operations
2201 C Street, NW.
Washington, DC 20520
[65 FR 60060, Oct. 6, 2000; 65 FR 81405, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.225
What is the difference between a contract or a rate tender and a commuted rate system?
(a) Under a contract or a rate tender, the agency prepares the bill of lading and books the shipment. The agency is the shipper and pays the TSP the applicable charges. If loss or damage occurs, the agency may either file a claim on behalf of the employee directly with the TSP, or help the employee in filing a claim against the TSP.
(b) Under the commuted rate system an employee arranges for shipping HHG and is reimbursed by the agency for the resulting costs. Use this method only within the continental United States (not Hawaii or Alaska).
(c) Rate table information and the commuted rate schedule can be found at
www.gsa.gov/relocationpolicy
or the appropriate office designated in your agency.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 75485, Dec. 12, 2013]
§ 102-117.230
Must I compare costs between a contract or a rate tender and the commuted rate system before choosing which method to use?
Yes, you must compare the cost between a contract or a rate tender, and the commuted rate system before you make a decision.
§ 102-117.235
How do I get a cost comparison?
(a) You may calculate a cost comparison internally according to 41 CFR part 302-7.
(b) You may request GSA to perform the cost comparison if you participate in the CHAMP program by sending GSA the following information as far in advance as possible:
(1) Name of employee;
(2) Origin city, county, and State;
(3) Destination city, county, and State;
(4) Date of household goods pick up;
(5) Estimated weight of shipments;
(6) Number of days storage-in-transit (if applicable); and
(7) Other relevant data.
(c) For more information on cost comparisons contact the Employee Relocation Resource Center at
errc@gsa.gov
.
[87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.240
What is my agency's financial responsibility to an employee who chooses to move all or part of their HHG under the commuted rate system?
(a) Your agency is responsible for reimbursing the employee what it would cost the Government to ship the employee's HHG by the most cost-effective means available or the employee's actual moving expenses, whichever is less.
(b) The employee is liable for the additional cost when the cost of transportation arranged by the employee is more than what it would cost the Government.

# Note 1 to § 102-117.240:
For information on how to ship household goods, refer to the Federal Travel Regulation, 41 CFR part 302-7, Transportation and Temporary Storage of Household Goods, Professional Books, Papers, and Equipment, (PBP
E) and Baggage Allowance.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.245
What is my responsibility in providing guidance to an employee who wishes to use the commuted rate system?
You must counsel employees that they may be liable for all costs above the amount reimbursed by the agency if they select a TSP that charges more than provided under the Commuted Rate Schedule.
§ 102-117.250
What are my responsibilities after shipping the household goods?
(a) Each agency should develop an evaluation survey for the employee to complete following the move.
(b) Under the CHAMP program, you must counsel employees to fill out their portion of the GSA Form 3080, Household Goods Carrier Evaluation Report. This form reports the quality of the TSP's performance. TSPs generate the GSA Form 3080 within GSA's Transportation Management Services Solution (TMSS) system and send the employee a link to complete the form.
[65 FR 60060, Oct. 6, 2000; 65 FR 81405, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.255
What actions may I take if the TSP's performance is not satisfactory?
If the TSP's performance is not satisfactory, you may place a TSP in temporary nonuse, suspended status, or debarred status. For more information on doing this, see subpart I of this part and the FAR (48 CFR 9.406-3 and 9.407-3).
§ 102-117.260
What are my responsibilities to employees regarding the TSP's liability for loss or damage claims?
Regarding the TSP's liability for loss or damage claims, you must:
(a) Advise employees on the limits of the TSP's liability for loss of and damage to their HHG so the employee may evaluate the need for added insurance;
(b) Inform the employee about the procedures to file claims for loss and damage to HHG with the TSP; and
(c) Counsel employees, who have a loss or damage to their HHG that exceeds the amount recovered from a TSP, on procedures for filing a claim against the Government for the difference. Agencies may compensate employees up to $40,000 on claims for loss and damage under 31 U.S.C. 3721, 3723 (41 CFR 302-7.12).
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.265
Are there time limits that affect filing a claim with a TSP for loss or damage?
Yes, several statutes limit the time for filing claims or taking other administrative or judicial action against a TSP. Refer to part 102-118 of this chapter for information on claims.

# Subpart H—Performance Measures
§ 102-117.270
What are agency performance measures for transportation?
(a) Agency performance measures are indicators of how you are supporting your customers and doing your job. By tracking performance measures you can report specific accomplishments and your success in supporting the agency mission. The GPRA Modernization Act of 2010 (31 U.S.C. 1115) requires agencies to develop business plans and set up program performance measures.
(b) Examples of performance measurements in transportation would include how well you:
(1) Increase the use of electronic commerce;
(2) Adopt industry best practices and services to meet your agency requirements;
(3) Use TSPs with a track record of successful past performance or proven superior ability;
(4) Take advantage of competition in moving agency freight and household goods;
(5) Assure that delivery of freight and household goods is on time against measured criteria; and
(6) Create simplified procedures to be responsive and adaptive to the customer needs and concerns.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart I—Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Performance
§ 102-117.275
What performance must I expect from a TSP?
You must expect the TSP to provide consistent and satisfactory service to meet your agency transportation needs.
§ 102-117.280
What aspects of the TSP's performance are important to measure?
Important TSP performance measures may include, but are not limited to the:
(a) TSP's percentage of on-time deliveries;
(b) Percentage of shipments that include overcharges or undercharges;
(c) Percentage of claims received in a given period;
(d) Percentage of returns received on-time;
(e) Percentage of shipments rejected;
(f) Percentage of billing improprieties;
(g) Average response time on tracing shipments;
(h) TSP's safety record (accidents, losses, damages or misdirected shipments) as a percentage of all shipments;
(i) TSP's driving record (accidents, traffic tickets and driving complaints) as a percentage of shipments; and
(j) Percentage of customer satisfaction reports on carrier performance.
§ 102-117.285
What are my choices if a TSP's performance is not satisfactory?
You may choose to place a TSP in temporary nonuse, suspension, or debarment if performance is unsatisfactory.
§ 102-117.290
What is the difference between temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment?
(a) Temporary nonuse is limited to your agency and initiated by the agency transportation officers for a period not to exceed 90 days for:
(1) Willful violations of the terms of the rate tender;
(2) Persistent or willful failure to meet requested packing and pickup service;
(3) Failure to meet required delivery dates;
(4) Violation of Department of Transportation (DOT) hazardous material regulations;
(5) Mishandling of freight, damaged or missing transportation seals, improper loading, blocking, packing or bracing of property;
(6) Improper routing of property;
(7) Subjecting your shipments to unlawful seizure or detention by failing to pay debts;
(8) Operating without legal authority;
(9) Failure to settle claims according to Government regulations; or
(10) Repeated failure to comply with regulations of DOT, Surface Transportation Board, State or local governments or other Government agencies.
(b) Suspension is disqualifying a TSP from receiving orders for certain services under a contract or rate tender pending an investigation or legal proceeding. A TSP may be suspended on adequate evidence of:
(1) Fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a contract for transportation;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes;
(3) Embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property; and
(4) Any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of the TSP as a transporter of the Government's property or the HHG of its employees relocated for the Government.
(c) Debarment means action taken to exclude a contractor from contracting with all Federal agencies. The seriousness of the TSP's acts or omissions and the mitigating factors must be considered in making any debarment decisions. A TSP may be debarred for the following reasons:
(1) Failure of a TSP to take the necessary corrective actions within the period of temporary nonuse; or
(2) Conviction of or civil judgment for any of the causes for suspension.
§ 102-117.295
Who makes the decisions on temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment?
(a) The transportation officer may place a TSP in temporary nonuse for a period not to exceed 90 days.
(b) The serious nature of suspension and debarment requires that these sanctions be imposed only in the public interest for the Government's protection and not for purposes of punishment. Only the agency head or designee may suspend or debar a TSP.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93199, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-117.300
Do the decisions on temporary nonuse, suspension and debarment go beyond the agency?
(a) Temporary nonuse does not go beyond the agency.
(b) Decisions on suspended or debarred TSPs do go beyond the agency and are available to the general public on the System for Award Management (SAM) maintained by GSA at
https://sam.gov/
.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.305
Where do I go for information on the process for suspending or debarring a TSP?
Refer to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) for policies and procedures governing suspension and debarment of a TSP.
§ 102-117.310
What records must I keep on temporary nonuse, suspension or debarment of a TSP?
(a) You must set up a program consistent with your agency's internal record retention procedures to document the placement of TSPs in a nonuse, suspended or debarred status.
(b) For temporary nonuse, your records must contain the following information:
(1) Name, address, and Standard Carrier Alpha Code and Taxpayer Identification Number of each TSP placed in temporary nonuse status;
(2) The duration of the temporary nonuse status;
(3) The cause for imposing temporary nonuse, and the facts showing the existence of such a cause;
(4) Information and arguments in opposition to the temporary nonuse period sent by the TSP or its representative; and
(5) The reviewing official's determination about keeping or removing temporary nonuse status.
(c) For suspended or debarred TSPs, your records must include the same information as paragraph (b) of this section and you must:
(1) Assure your agency does not award contracts to a suspended or debarred TSP; and
(2) Notify GSA (see § 102-117.315).
§ 102-117.315
Whom must I notify on suspension or debarment of a TSP?
Agencies must report electronically any suspension or debarment actions in accordance with the provisions of 48 CFR 9.404(c).
[75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart J—Representation Before Regulatory Body Proceedings
§ 102-117.320
What is a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
A transportation regulatory body proceeding is a hearing before a transportation governing entity, such as a State public utility commission, the Surface Transportation Board, or the Federal Maritime Commission. The proceeding may be at the Federal or State level depending on the activity regulated.
§ 102-117.325
May my agency appear on its own behalf before a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
Generally, no executive agency may appear on its own behalf in any proceeding before a transportation regulatory body, unless the Administrator of General Services delegates the authority to the agency. The statutory authority for the Administrator of General Services to participate in regulatory proceedings on behalf of all Federal agencies is in section 201(a)(4) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 501(c)(1)(B)).
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.330
When, or under what circumstances, would GSA delegate authority to an agency to appear on its own behalf before a transportation regulatory body proceeding?
GSA will delegate authority when it does not have the expertise, or when it is outside of GSA's purview, to make a determination on an issue such as a protest of rates, routings or excessive charges.
§ 102-117.335
How does my agency ask for a delegation of authority to represent itself in a regulatory body proceeding?
You must email your request with enough detail to explain the circumstances surrounding the need for a delegation of authority for representation to
GSA-OGP-Transportationpolicy@gsa.gov
.
[87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.340
What other types of assistance may GSA provide agencies in dealing with regulatory bodies?
(a) GSA has oversight of all public utilities used by the Federal Government including transportation. There are specific regulatory requirements a TSP must meet at the State level, such as the requirement to obtain a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
(b) GSA has a list of TSPs, which meet certain criteria regarding insurance and safety, approved by DOT. You must furnish GSA with an affidavit to determine if the TSP meets the basic qualification to protect the Government's interest. As an oversight mandate, GSA coordinates this function. For further information email
transportation.programs@gsa.gov
or contact: General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Office of
Travel, Employee Relocation and Transportation, 1800 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20405.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51394, Aug. 20, 2010; 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart K—Transportation Reporting

# Source:
80 FR 57102, Sept. 22, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-117.345
[Reserved]
§ 102-117.350
Do I have to report transportation data?
No, however all agencies are strongly encouraged to report data by October 31 for the preceding fiscal year to GSA at
GSA-OGP-Transportationpolicy@gsa.gov
.
[87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.355
Why should I report?
(a) Reporting your agency's prior fiscal year transaction level transportation data for freight and cargo, including HHG, procured either through contract or tender, as well as your transportation management information will enable GSA to:
(1) Assess the magnitude and key characteristics of transportation within the Government (
e.g.,
how much agencies spend; what type of commodity is shipped; most used lanes, etc.); and
(2) Analyze and recommend changes to Governmentwide policies, standards, practices, and procedures to improve Government transportation management.
(b) Agencies that choose to report may identify opportunities within their organization to improve transportation management program performance as a result of the data analytics.
§ 102-117.356
What information should I report?
You should report your agency's prior fiscal year transaction level transportation data for freight and cargo, including HHG, and transportation management information. Transportation data that currently is otherwise provided to GSA in compliance with 31 U.S.C. 3726 is not requested. Transaction level transportation data submitted by agencies will remain confidential. Transportation management information should also be reported and should include related environmental information, agency points of contact, and transportation officer warrant and training data.
§ 102-117.360
[Reserved]

# Subpart L—Government-wide Transportation Policy
§ 102-117.361
What is the Government-wide Transportation Policy Council (GTPC)?
The Office of Government-wide Policy sponsors a Government-wide Transportation Policy Council (GTPC) to help agencies establish, improve, and maintain effective transportation management policies, practices and procedures. The council:
(a) Collaborates with private and public stakeholders to develop valid performance measures and promote solutions that lead to effective results; and
(b) Provides assistance to your agency with reporting your transportation activity to GSA.
[65 FR 60061, Oct. 6, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51395, Aug. 20, 2010. Redesignated at 80 FR 57102, Sept. 22, 2015; 87 FR 32323, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.362
Where can I get more information about the GTPC?
For more information about the GTPC, email
GSA-OGP-Transportationpolicy@gsa.gov
or visit
https://www.gsa.gov/transportationpolicy
.
[87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart M—Recommendations for Authorization and Qualifications to Acquire Transportation Using a Rate Tender

# Source:
79 FR 55365, Sept. 16, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-117.365
What are the responsibilities of a Transportation Officer?
A Transportation Officer's (TO) responsibilities may include:
(a) Negotiating rates;
(b) Signing bills of lading (BOL);
(c) Approving additional accessorial charges;
(d) Selecting and procuring services of a TSP;
(e) Selecting and procuring services of a 3PL;
(f) Serving as a transportation subject matter expert to a Contracting Officer (CO); and/or
(g) Other roles/responsibilities, such as serving as a certifying official for BOL or as a disbursement official.
§ 102-117.370
Should I have a Transportation Officer warrant to acquire transportation services using a rate tender?
Yes, it is recommended that you have a written document, such as a warrant, issued by the head of your agency or their designee, which expressly allows you to acquire transportation services for using approved non-Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) acquisition methods for specified transportation services, and states a dollar limit or range for the warrant authority.
§ 102-117.375
Are there instances where a Transportation Officer warrant is not necessary to acquire transportation services?
Yes, a Transportation Officer warrant is not necessary to:
(a) Ship packages through a contract under the GSA Schedules program, including any Blanket Purchase Agreement, as these are FAR-based contracts;
(b) Ship packages or other materials through any other FAR-based contract; or
(c) Send items through the United States Postal Service.
§ 102-117.380
What should be contained in a Transportation Officer warrant to acquire transportation services?
The warrant for authority to acquire transportation services for freight and cargo, including HHGs, issued by the agency head or their designee should:
(a) State that you have sufficient experience (any combination of Federal, public, and/or commercial) and/or training in transportation services, including any relevant acquisition or certifying officer training, that qualifies you to acquire the transportation services needed by your agency;
(b) List the maximum dollar limit, if any, and any other limits, such as the types of services that you may acquire;
(c) State your agency's necessary conditions to maintain the warrant; and
(d) Include an expiration date for the warrant, recommended not to exceed three years from the date of issuance.
§ 102-117.385
Is there a standard format for a Transportation Officer warrant?
No. Agencies may model the Transportation Officer warrant after the Contracting Officer warrant, or they may establish their own format.
[87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.390
What are the recommended Transportation Officer training and/or experience levels?
The following are recommended agency transportation officer training and/or experience baselines:
(a) For a Basic (Level 1) Transportation Officer Warrant:
(1) Twenty-four (24) hours of training in Federal transportation; or
(2) Two (2) years of Federal, public, and/or commercial experience in acquiring transportation through rate tenders.
(b) For an Experienced (Level 2) Transportation Officer Warrant:
(1) Thirty-two (32) hours of training in transportation, including twenty (20) hours of training in Federal transportation; or
(2) Three (3) years of Federal, public, and/or commercial experience in acquiring transportation through rate tenders.
(c) For a Senior (Level 3) Transportation Officer Warrant:
(1) Sixty (60) hours of training in transportation, including forty (40) hours of training in Federal transportation; or
(2) Five (5) years of Federal, public, and/or commercial experience in acquiring transportation through rate tenders.
[87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-117.395
Should I continue my training to maintain my warrant?
Yes, you should continue your training. Your agency will determine the continuing education that applies specifically to your warrant. It is recommended that at least twelve (12) hours of transportation training per year be completed in order to maintain a Transportation Officer warrant.
§ 102-117.400
How should my warrant be documented?
The head of your agency or their designee should state, in writing, that you have the recommended training and/or experience suggested by § 102-117.390. You should retain a copy of this Transportation Officer warrant. Agency heads or their designee(s) may amend, suspend, or terminate warrants in accordance with agency policies and/or procedures.
Pt. 102-118

# PART 102-118—TRANSPORTATION PAYMENT AND AUDIT

# Subpart A—General

# Introduction
Sec.
102-118.5
What is the purpose of this part?
102-118.10
What is a transportation audit?
102-118.15
What is a transportation payment?
102-118.20
Who is subject to this part?
102-118.25
What must my agency provide to GSA regarding its transportation policies?
102-118.30
Are Government-controlled corporations bound by this part?

# Definitions
102-118.35
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Ordering and Paying for Transportation and Transportation Services
102-118.40
How does my agency order transportation and transportation services?
102-118.45
How does a transportation service provider (TSP) bill my agency for transportation and transportation services?
102-118.50
How does my agency pay for transportation services?
102-118.55
What administrative procedures must my agency establish for payment of freight, household goods, or other transportation services?
102-118.60
To what extent must my agency use electronic commerce?
102-118.65
Can my agency receive electronic billing for payment of transportation services?
102-118.70
Must my agency make all payments via electronic funds transfer?
102-118.75
What if my agency or the TSP does not have an account with a financial institution or approved payment agent?
102-118.80
Who is responsible for keeping my agency's electronic commerce transportation billing records?
102-118.85
Can my agency use a Government contractor issued charge card to pay for transportation services?
102-118.90
If my agency orders transportation and/or transportation services with a Government contractor issued charge card or charge account citation, is this subject to prepayment audit?
102-118.91
May my agency authorize the use of cash?
102-118.92
How does my agency handle receipts, tickets or other records of cash payments?
102-118.95
What forms can my agency use to pay transportation bills?
102-118.100
What must my agency ensure is on each SF 1113?
102-118.105
Where can I find the rules governing the use of a Government Bill of Lading?
102-118.110
Where can I find the rules governing the use of a Government Transportation Request?
102-118.115
Must my agency use a GBL?
102-118.120
Must my agency use a GTR?
102-118.125
What if my agency uses a TD other than a GBL?
102-118.130
Must my agency use a GBL for express, courier, or small package shipments?
102-118.135
Where are the mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of bills of lading?
102-118.140
What are the major mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of GBLs and bills of lading?
102-118.145
Where are the mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents?
102-118.150
What are the major mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents?
102-118.155
How does my agency handle supplemental billings from the TSP after payment of the original bill?
102-118.160
Who is liable if my agency makes an overpayment on a transportation bill?
102-118.165
What must my agency do if it finds an error on a TSP bill?
102-118.170
Will GSA continue to maintain a centralized numbering system for Government transportation documents?

# Subpart C—Use of Government Billing Documents

# Terms and Conditions Governing Acceptance and Use of a Government Bill of Lading (GBL) or Government Transportation Request (GTR) (Until Form Retirement)
102-118.185
When buying freight transportation, must my agency reference the applicable contract or tender on the bill of lading (including GBLs)?
102-118.190
When buying passenger transportation, must my agency reference the applicable contract?
102-118.195
What documents must a transportation service provider (TSP) send to receive payment for a transportation billing?
102-118.200
Can a TSP demand advance payment for the transportation charges submitted on a bill of lading (including GBL)?
102-118.205
May my agency pay a subcontractor or agent functioning as a warehouseman for the TSP providing service under the bill of lading?
102-118.210
May my agency use bills of lading other than the GBL for a transportation shipment?
102-118.215
May my agency pay a TSP any extra fees to pay for the preparation and use of the GBL or GTR?
102-118.220
If a transportation debt is owed to my agency by a TSP because of loss or damage to property, does my agency report it to GSA?
102-118.225
What constitutes final receipt of shipment?
102-118.230
What if my agency creates or eliminates a field office approved to prepare transportation documents?

# Agency Responsibilities When Using Government Bills of Lading (GBLs) or Government Transportation Requests (GTRs)
102-118.235
Must my agency keep physical control and accountability of the GBL and GTR forms or GBL and GTR numbers?
102-118.240
How does my agency get GBL and GTR forms?
102-118.245
How does my agency get an assigned set of GBL or GTR numbers?
102-118.250
Who is accountable for the issuance and use of GBL and GTR forms?
102-118.255
Are GBL and GTR forms numbered and used sequentially?

# Quotations, Tenders or Contracts
102-118.260
Must my agency send all quotations, tenders, or contracts with a TSP to GSA?
102-118.260
Must my agency send all quotations, tenders, or contracts with a TSP to GSA?

# Subpart D—Prepayment Audit of Transportation Services

# Agency Requirements for a Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
102-118.265
What is a prepayment audit?
102-118.270
Must my agency establish a transportation prepayment audit program, and how is it funded?
102-118.275
What must my agency consider when developing a transportation prepayment audit program?
102-118.280
Must all transportation payment records, whether they are electronic or paper, undergo a prepayment audit?
102-118.285
What must be included in my agency's transportation prepayment audit program?

# Agency Requirements With Transportation Service Providers
102-118.290
Must my agency notify the TSP of any adjustment to the TSP bill?
102-118.295
Does my agency transportation prepayment audit program need to establish appeal procedures?
102-118.300
What must my agency do if the TSP disputes the findings and my agency cannot resolve the dispute?
102-118.305
What information must be on all transportation payment records that have completed my agency's prepayment audit?
102-118.310
What does the GSA Transportation Audits Division consider when verifying an agency prepayment audit program?
102-118.315
How does my agency contact the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.320
What action should my agency take if the agency's transportation prepayment audits program changes?

# Agency Certifying and Disbursing Officers
102-118.325
Does establishing an agency Chief Financial Officer-approved transportation prepayment audit program change the responsibilities of the certifying officers?
102-118.330
Does a transportation prepayment audit waiver change any liabilities of the certifying officer?
102-118.335
What relief from liability is available for the certifying official under a transportation postpayment audit?
102-118.340
Do the requirements of a transportation prepayment audit change the disbursing official's liability for overpayment?
102-118.345
Where does relief from transportation prepayment audit liability for certifying, accountable, and disbursing officers reside in my agency?

# Exemptions and Suspensions of the Mandatory Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
102-118.350
What agency has the authority to grant an exemption from the transportation prepayment audit requirement?
102-118.355
How does my agency apply for an exemption from a transportation prepayment audit requirement?
102-118.360
How long will GSA take to respond to an exemption request from a transportation prepayment audit requirement?
102-118.365
Can my agency renew an exemption from the transportation prepayment audit requirements?
102-118.370
Are my agency's prepayment audited transportation documentation subject to periodic postpayment audit oversight from the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.375
Can GSA suspend my agency's transportation prepayment audit program?

# Subpart E—Postpayment Transportation Audits
102-118.400
What is a transportation postpayment audit?
102-118.405
Who conducts a transportation postpayment audit?
102-118.410
If agencies perform the mandatory transportation prepayment audit, will this eliminate the requirement for a transportation postpayment audit conducted by GSA?
102-118.415
Can the Administrator of General Services exempt the transportation postpayment audit requirement?
102-118.420
Is my agency allowed to perform a postpayment audit on our transportation documents?
102-118.425
Is my agency required to forward all transportation documents (TDs) to GSA Transportation Audits Division, and what information must be on these documents?
102-118.430
What is the process the GSA Transportation Audits Division employs to conduct a postpayment audit?
102-118.435
What are the transportation postpayment audit roles and responsibilities of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.440
Does my agency pay for a transportation postpayment audit conducted by the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.445
How do I contact the GSA Transportation Audits Division?

# Subpart F—Claims and Appeal Procedures

# General Agency Information for All Claims
102-118.450
Can a TSP file a transportation claim against my agency?
102-118.445
What is the time limit for a TSP to file a transportation claim against my agency?
102-118.455
What is the time limit for a TSP to file a transportation claim with the GSA Transportation Audits Division against my agency?
102-118.460
What is the time limit for my agency to file a court claim with a TSP for freight charges, reparations, and loss or damage to the property?
102-118.465
Must my agency pay interest on a disputed amount claimed by a TSP?
102-118.470
Are there statutory time limits for a TSP on filing a claim with the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.475
Does interest apply after certification of payment of claims?
102-118.480
How does my agency settle disputes with a TSP?
102-118.485
Is there a time limit for my agency to issue a decision on disputed claims?
102-118.490
What if my agency fails to settle a disputed claim with a TSP within 30 days?
102-118.495
May my agency appeal a decision by the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)?
102-118.500
How does my agency handle a voluntary refund submitted by a TSP?
102-118.505
Must my agency send a voluntary refund to the Treasurer of the United States?
102-118.510
Can my agency revise or alter a Certificate of Settlement?
102-118.515
Does my agency have any recourse not to pay a Certificate of Settlement?
102-118.520
Who is responsible for determining the standards for collection, compromise, termination, or suspension of collection action on any outstanding debts to my agency?
102-118.525
What are my agency's responsibilities for verifying the correct amount of transportation charges?
102-118.530
Will GSA instruct my agency's disbursing offices to offset unpaid TSP billings?
102-118.535
Are there principles governing my agency's TSP debt collection procedures?
102-118.540
Who has the authority to audit and settle bills for all transportation services provided for my agency?

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Filing Requirements
102-118.545
What information must a TSP claim include?
102-118.550
How does a TSP file a claim using EDI or other electronic means?
102-118.555
Can a TSP file a supplemental claim?
102-118.560
What is the required format that a TSP must use to file an administrative claim?
102-118.565
What documentation is required when filing a claim?

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) and Agency Appeal Procedures for Prepayment Audits
102-118.570
If my agency denies the TSP's challenge to the Statement of Difference, may the TSP appeal?
102-118.575
If a TSP disagrees with the decision of my agency, can the TSP appeal?
102-118.580
May a TSP appeal a prepayment audit decision of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.585
May a TSP appeal a prepayment audit decision of the CBCA?
102-118.590
May my agency appeal a prepayment audit decision of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
102-118.595
May my agency appeal a prepayment audit decision by the CBCA?

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) and Agency Appeal Procedures for Postpayment Audits
102-118.600
When a TSP disagrees with a Notice of Overcharge resulting from a postpayment audit, what are the appeal procedures?
102-118.605
What if a TSP disagrees with the Notice of Indebtedness?
102-118.610
Is a TSP notified when GSA allows a claim?
102-118.615
Will GSA notify a TSP if they internally offset a payment?
102-118.620
How will a TSP know if the GSA Transportation Audits Division disallows a claim?
102-118.625
Can a TSP request a reconsideration of a settlement action by the GSA Audit Division?
102-118.630
How must a TSP refund amounts due to GSA?
102-118.635
Can the Government charge interest on an amount due from a TSP?
102-118.640
If a TSP fails to pay or to appeal an overcharge, what actions will GSA pursue to collect the debt?
102-118.645
Can a TSP file a claim on collection actions?
102-118.650
Can a TSP request a review of a settlement action by the Administrator of General Services?
102-118.655
Are there time limits on a TSP request for an administrative review by the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)?
102-118.660
May a TSP appeal a postpayment audit decision of the CBCA?
102-118.665
May my agency appeal a postpayment audit decision by the CBCA?

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Non-Payment of a Claim
102-118.670
If a TSP cannot immediately pay a debt, can they make other arrangements for payment?
102-118.675
What recourse does my agency have if a TSP does not pay a transportation debt?

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3726; 40 U.S.C. 121(c); 40 U.S.C. 501,
et seq.;
46 U.S.C. 55305; 49 U.S.C. 40118.

# Source:
65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Introduction
§ 102-118.5
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to interpret statutes and other policies that assure that payment and payment mechanisms for agency transportation services are uniform and appropriate. This part communicates the policies clearly to agencies and transportation service providers (TSPs). (See § 102-118.35 for the definition of TSP.)
§ 102-118.10
What is a transportation audit?
A transportation audit is a thorough review and validation of transportation related documents and bills. The audit must examine the validity, propriety, and conformity of the charges or rates with tariffs, quotations, contracts, agreements, or tenders, as appropriate.
[81 FR 65298, Sept. 22, 2016]
§ 102-118.15
What is a transportation payment?
A transportation payment is a payment made by an agency to a TSP for the movement of goods, people or transportation related services.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 65299, Sept. 22, 2016]
§ 102-118.20
Who is subject to this part?
This part applies to all agencies (including the Department of Defense (DoD)) and TSPs defined in § 102-118.35, and wholly-owned Government corporations as defined in 31 U.S.C. 101,
et seq.
and 31 U.S.C. 9101(3). Your agency is required to incorporate this part into its internal regulations.
[81 FR 65299, Sept. 22, 2016]
§ 102-118.25
What must my agency provide to GSA regarding its transportation policies?
As part of the evaluation of agencies' transportation program and postpayment audit, GSA is required to examine your agency's transportation prepayment audit program and policies to verify the performance of the prepayment audit. GSA Office of Government-wide Policy, Transportation Policy Division and GSA Transportation Audits Division may suggest revisions of agencies' audit program or policies.
[81 FR 65299, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93195, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.30
Are Government-controlled corporations bound by this part?
This part does not apply to Government-controlled corporations and mixed-ownership Government corporations as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1) and (2).
[81 FR 65299, Sept. 22, 2016]

# Definitions
§ 102-118.35
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
ACH (automated clearinghouse)
means a nationwide network through which depository institutions send each other batches of electronic credit and debit transfers.
Agency
means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government (31 U.S.C. 101).
Agency purchase card
means a charge card used by an authorized agency purchaser to procure, order, and pay for supplies and services.
Bill of lading (BOL),
sometimes referred to as a commercial bill of lading, but includes a Government bill of lading (GBL), means the document used as a receipt of goods, a contract of carriage, and documentary evidence of title.
Cash
means cash, personal checks, personal charge/credit cards, and traveler's checks.
Certificate of Settlement
means a formal notice to an agency that provides a complete explanation of any amount that is disallowed. GSA produces and transmits the Certificate of Settlement (GSA Form 7931) to the agency whose funds are to be charged for processing and payment.
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)
means an independent court within GSA that settles transportation payment claims disputes between Federal agencies and transportation service providers (TSPs). For additional information on the CBCA see
https://www.cbca.gov/index.html.
Claim
means—
(1) Any demand by an agency upon a transportation service provider (TSP) for the payment of overcharges, ordinary debts, fines, penalties, administrative fees, special charges, and interest; or
(2) Any demand by the TSP for amounts not included in the original bill that the TSP believes an agency owes them. This includes amounts deducted or offset by an agency; amounts previously refunded by the TSP, which is believed to be owed; and any subsequent bills from the TSP resulting from a transaction that was prepayment or postpayment audited by the GSA Transportation Audits Division.
Document reference number (DRN)
means the unique number on a bill of lading, Government Transportation Request (GTR), or transportation ticket used to track the movement of shipments and individuals.
Electronic commerce
means electronic techniques for performing business transactions (ordering, billing, and paying for goods and services), including electronic mail or messaging, Internet technology, electronic bulletin boards, charge cards, electronic funds transfers, and electronic data interchange.
Electronic data interchange (EDI)
means electronic techniques for carrying out transportation transactions using electronic transmissions of the information between computers instead of paper documents. These electronic transmissions must use established and published formats and codes as authorized by the applicable Federal Information Processing Standards.
Electronic funds transfer
means any transfer of funds, other than transactions initiated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes Automated Clearinghouse transfers, Fed Wire transfers, and transfers made at automatic teller machines and point of sale terminals.
Government bill of lading (GBL)
means the transportation document used as a receipt of goods, evidence of title, and a contract of carriage for Government international shipments (see Bill of lading (BOL) definition).
Government contractor issued charge card
means an individually billed travel card or an agency purchase card.
Government Transportation Request (GTR)
(
Optional Form 1169
)—means a Government document used to procure passenger transportation services from a TSP. The document obligates the Government to pay for transportation services provided and is used when a Government contractor issued charge card is not accepted by the TSP.
Individually billed travel card
means the charge card used by authorized individuals to pay for official travel and transportation related expenses for which the contractor bills the employee. This is different from a centrally billed account paying for official travel and transportation related expenses for which the agency is billed.
Notice of Indebtedness
means a formal notice issued to a TSP that owes an ordinary debt to an agency. This notice states the basis for the debt, the TSP's rights, interest, penalty, and other results of nonpayment. The debt is due immediately and is subject to interest charges, penalties, and administrative cost under 31 U.S.C. 3717.
Notice of Overcharge
means a formal notice to a TSP that owes a debt to the agency. It shows the TSP the amount paid and the basis for the proper charge for the document reference number (DRN), and cites applicable contract, tariff, or tender, along with other data relied on to support the overcharge.
Offset
means withholding money from a payment. In this part, money withheld refers to the funds owed a TSP that are not released by the agency but instead used to repay the Government for a debt incurred by the TSP.
Ordinary debt
means an amount that a TSP owes an agency other than for the repayment of an overcharge. Ordinary debts include, but are not limited to, payments for transportation services ordered and not provided (including unused transportation tickets), duplicate payments, and amounts for which a TSP is liable because of loss and/or damage to property it transported.
Overcharge
means those charges for transportation that exceed those applicable under the executed agreement for services such as bill of lading (including a GBL, contract, rate tender or a GTR).
Postpayment audit
means an audit of transportation billing documents, and all related transportation documents after payment, to decide their validity, propriety, and conformity of rates with tariffs, quotations, agreements, contracts, or tenders. The audit process may also include subsequent adjustments and collection actions taken against a TSP by the Government (31 U.S.C. 3726).
Prepayment audit
means an audit of transportation billing documents before payment to determine their validity, propriety, and conformity of rates with tariffs, quotations, agreements, contracts, or tenders (31 U.S.C. 3726).
Privately Owned Personal Property Government Bill of Lading
means the agency transportation document used as a receipt of goods, evidence of title, and generally a contract of carriage. It is only available for the transportation of household goods. Use of this form is mandatory for Department of Defense, but optional for other agencies.
Rate authority
means the document that establishes the legal charges for a transportation shipment. Charges included in a rate authority are those rates, fares, and charges for transportation and related services contained in tariffs, tenders, contracts, bills of lading, and other equivalent documents.
Refund
means the amount collected from outside sources for payments made in error, overpayment, or adjustments for previous amounts disbursed.
Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC)
is a unique code, typically two to four characters, used to identify transportation companies.
Statement of difference
means a statement issued by an agency or its designated audit contractor during a prepayment audit when it has been determined that a TSP has billed the agency for more than the proper amount for the services. This statement tells the TSP the amount allowed and the basis for the proper charges. The statement also cites the applicable rate references and other data relied on for support. The agency issues a separate statement of difference for each transportation transaction. This can be an electronic process.
Supplemental bill
means the bill for services that the TSP submits to the agency for additional payment of the services provided.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN)
means the number required by the Internal Revenue Service to be used by the TSP in reporting income tax or other returns. For a TSP, the TIN is an employer identification number.
Transportation
means service involved in the physical movement (from one location to another) of people, household goods, and freight by a TSP or a Third Party Logistics (3PL) entity for an agency, as well as activities directly relating to or supporting that movement. These activities are defined in 49 U.S.C. 13102.
Transportation Audits Management System (TAMS)
means the GSA's cloud-based postpaid transportation invoice auditing solution for Federal agencies and TSPs.
Transportation document (TD)
means any executed document for transportation services, such as a bill of lading, a tariff, a tender, a contract, a GTR, invoices, paid invoices, any transportation bills, or other equivalent documents, including electronic documents.
Transportation service provider (TSP)
means any party, person, agent, or carrier that provides freight, household goods, or passenger transportation or related services to an agency.

# Note to § 102-118.35:
15 U.S.C. 96,
et seq.,
49 U.S.C. 13102,
et seq.,
and 41 CFR Chapter 302 Federal Travel Regulation defines additional transportation terms not listed in this section.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004; 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 81 FR 65299, Sept. 22, 2016; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93195, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Subpart B—Ordering and Paying for Transportation and Transportation Services
§ 102-118.40
How does my agency order transportation and transportation services?
Your agency orders:
(a) Transportation of freight and household goods and related transportation services (e.g., packaging, storage) with a Government contractor issued charge card, purchase order (or electronic equivalent), or a bill of lading including a Government bill of lading. In extremely limited cases, cash can be used where government payment mechanisms are not available or acceptable.
(b) Transportation of people through the purchase of transportation tickets with a Government contractor issued charge card, centrally billed travel account, personal charge/credit card, cash (in accordance with Department of the Treasury regulations), or in limited prescribed situations, a Government Transportation Request (GTR). See the “U.S. Government Passenger Transportation Handbook,” available at
https://www.gsa.gov/transaudits
.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 48812, Sept. 24, 2001; 69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004; 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93195, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.45
How does a transportation service provider (TSP) bill my agency for transportation and transportation services?
The manner in which your agency orders transportation and transportation services determines the manner in which a TSP bills for service. This is shown in the following table:
Transportation Service Provider Billing
(a) Ordering method
(b) Billing method
(1)(i) Government contractor issued charge card; and
* * * * *
(ii) Centrally billed travel account citation.
(2)(i) Purchase order,
(2) Bill from TSP (may be electronic).
(ii) Bill of lading,
(iii) Government Bill of Lading,
(iv) Government Transportation Request.
(3)(i) Government contractor issued charge card (individually billed travel card);
* * * * *
(ii) Personal charge/credit card; and
* * * * *
(iii) Personal cash.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93195, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.50
How does my agency pay for transportation services?
Your agency may pay for transportation services in three ways:
(a)
Electronic funds transfer (EFT).
Your agency is required by statute (31 U.S.C. 3332,
et seq.
) to make all payments by EFT unless your agency receives a waiver from the Department of the Treasury.
(b)
Check.
For those situations where EFT is not possible and the Department of the Treasury has issued a waiver, your agency may make payments by check.
(c)
Cash.
In very unusual circumstances and as a last option, your agency payments may be made in cash in accordance with Department of the Treasury regulations.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93195. Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.55
What administrative procedures must my agency establish for payment of freight, household goods, or other transportation services?
Your agency must establish administrative procedures which assure that the following conditions are met:
(a) The negotiated price is fair and reasonable;
(b) A document of agreement signifying acceptance of the arrangements with terms and conditions is filed with the participating agency by the TSP;
(c) The terms and conditions are included in all transportation agreements and referenced on all transportation documents (TDs);
(d) Bills are only paid to the TSP providing service under the bill of lading to your agency and may not be waived;
(e) All fees paid are accounted for in the aggregate delivery costs;
(f) All payments are subject to applicable statutory limitations;
(g) Procedures (such as an unique numbering system) are established to prevent and detect duplicate payments, properly account for expenditures and discrepancy notices;
(h) All transactions are verified with any indebtedness list. On charge card transactions, your agency must consult any indebtedness list if the charge card contract provisions allow for it; and
(i) Procedures are established to process any unused tickets.
§ 102-118.60
To what extent must my agency use electronic commerce?
Your agency must use electronic commerce in all areas of your transportation program. This includes the use
of electronic systems and forms for ordering, receiving bills and paying for transportation and transportation services.
[69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004]
§ 102-118.65
Can my agency receive electronic billing for payment of transportation services?
Yes, when mutually agreeable to the agency and the GSA Transportation Audits Division, your agency is encouraged to use electronic billing for the procurement and billing of transportation services.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.70
Must my agency make all payments via electronic funds transfer?
Yes, under 31 U.S.C. 3332,
et seq.,
your agency must make all payments for goods and services via EFT (this includes goods and services ordered using charge cards).
§ 102-118.75
What if my agency or the TSP does not have an account with a financial institution or approved payment agent?
Under 31 U.S.C. 3332,
et seq.,
your agency must obtain an account with a financial institution or approved payment agent in order to meet the statutory requirements to make all Federal payments via EFT unless your agency receives a waiver from the Department of the Treasury. To obtain a waiver, your agency must contact the Secretary of the Treasury. For information visit:
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/
[89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.80
Who is responsible for keeping my agency's electronic commerce transportation billing records?
Your agency's internal financial regulations will identify responsibility for recordkeeping. In addition, the GSA Transportation Audits Division keeps a central repository of electronic transportation billing records for legal and auditing purposes. Therefore, your agency must utilize the Transportation Audits Management System (TAMS) (
https://tams.gsa.gov
) to submit all relevant electronic transportation billing documents or submit via email to:
qmcatariffs@gsa.gov.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 57620, Sept. 24, 2004; 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.85
Can my agency use a Government contractor issued charge card to pay for transportation services?
Yes, your agency may use a Government contractor issued charge card to purchase transportation services if permitted under the charge card contract or task order. In these circumstances your agency will receive a bill for these services from the charge card company.
§ 102-118.90
If my agency orders transportation and/or transportation services with a Government contractor issued charge card or charge account citation, is this subject to prepayment audit?
Generally, no transportation or transportation services ordered with a Government contractor issued charge card or charge account citation can be prepayment audited because the bank or charge card contractor pays the TSP directly, before your agency receives a bill that can be audited from the charge card company. However, if your agency contracts with the charge card or charge account provider to provide for a prepayment audit, then, as long as your agency is not liable for paying the bank for improper charges (as determined by the prepayment audit verification process), a prepayment audit can be used. As with all prepayment audit programs, the charge card prepayment audit must be approved by the GSA Transportation Audits Division prior to implementation. If the charge card contract does not provide for a prepayment audit, your agency must submit the transportation line items on the charge card to the GSA Transportation Audits Division for a postpayment audit.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.91
May my agency authorize the use of cash?
Yes, in limited circumstances, a Government employee can use cash where government payment mechanisms are not available or acceptable.
[69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004]
§ 102-118.92
How does my agency handle receipts, tickets or other records of cash payments?
Your agency must ensure that its employees keep the original receipts for transportation purchases over $75.00 made with cash. If it is impractical to furnish receipts in any instance as required by this subtitle, the failure to do so must be fully explained on the travel voucher. Mere inconvenience in the matter of taking receipts will not be considered. These receipts must be saved for a possible postpayment audit by the GSA Transportation Audits Division. If your agency requires the filing of paper receipts, then you must do so. For transportation purchases over $75.00, your agency must ensure that copies of all original papers are retained at your agency.
[69 FR 57618, Sept. 24, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.95
What forms can my agency use to pay transportation bills?
Your agency must use commercial payment practices and forms to the maximum extent possible; however, when viewed necessary by your agency, your agency may use the following Government forms to pay transportation bills:
(a) Standard Form (SF) 1113, Public Voucher for Transportation Charges, and SF 1113-A, Memorandum Copy;
(b) Standard Form (SF) 1103, Government Bill of Lading (used for movement of things, both privately owned and Government property for official uses);
(c) OF 1169, Government Transportation Request (used to pay for tickets to move people); and
(d) Privately Owned Personal Property Government Bill of Lading (used by the Department of Defense to move private property for official transfers).
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 48812, Sept. 24, 2001; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.100
What must my agency ensure is on each SF 1113?
Your agency must ensure during its prepayment audit of a TSP bill that, when required, the TSP filled out the Public Voucher for Transportation Charges, SF 1113, completely including the taxpayer identification number (TIN) and standard carrier alpha code (SCAC).
[87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.105
Where can I find the rules governing the use of a Government Bill of Lading?
The “U.S. Government Freight Transportation—Handbook” contains information on how to prepare this GBL form. This handbook is available at
https://www.gsa.gov/transaudits.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 57620, Sept. 24, 2004; 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.110
Where can I find the rules governing the use of a Government Transportation Request?
The “U.S. Government Passenger Transportation—Handbook” contains information on how to prepare this GTR form. This handbook is available at
https://www.gsa.gov/transaudits.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 57620, Sept. 24, 2004: 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.115
Must my agency use a GBL?
No. Your agency is required to use commercial payment practices to the maximum extent possible. Your agency may use a GBL as needed for domestic shipments and should use a GBL for international shipments. When used for shipments, a GBL is a receipt of goods, evidence of title, and a contract of carriage for Government shipments and was developed to protect the interest of the U.S. Government.
[89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.120
Must my agency use a GTR?
No, your agency is not required to use a GTR. Your agency must adopt commercial practices and eliminate GTR use to the maximum extent possible.
§ 102-118.125
What if my agency uses a TD other than a GBL?
If your agency uses any other TD for shipping under its account, the requisite and the named safeguards must be in place (i.e., terms and conditions found herein and in the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation—Handbook,” appropriate numbering, etc.).
§ 102-118.130
Must my agency use a GBL for express, courier, or small package shipments?
No, however, in using commercial forms all shipments must be subject to the terms and conditions set forth for use of a bill of lading for the Government. Any other non-conflicting applicable contracts or agreements between the TSP and an agency involving buying transportation services for Government traffic remain binding. This purchase does not require a SF 1113.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.135
Where are the mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of bills of lading?
The mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of bills of lading are contained in this part and the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook.”
§ 102-118.140
What are the major mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of GBLs and bills of lading?
The mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of GBLs and bills of lading are:
(a) Unless otherwise permitted by statute and approved by the agency, the TSP may not demand prepayment or collect charges from the consignee. The TSP, providing service under the bill of lading, must present a legible copy of the bill of lading or an original, properly certified GBL attached to Standard Form (SF) 1113, Public Voucher for Transportation Charges, to the paying office for payment. An agency may choose not to require that an SF 1113 be attached to the bill of lading and invoice if the TSP submits invoices using the agency's approved third-party payment system (TPPS);
(b) The shipment must be made at the restricted or limited valuation specified in the tariff or classification or limited contract, arrangement or exemption at or under which the lowest rate is available, unless indicated on the GBL or bill of lading. (This is commonly referred to as an alternation of rates);
(c) Receipt for the shipment is subject to the consignee's annotation of loss, damage, or shrinkage on the delivering TSP's documents and the consignee's copy of the same documents. If loss or damage is discovered after delivery or receipt of the shipment, the consignee must promptly notify the nearest office of the last delivering TSP and extend to the TSP the privilege of examining the shipment;
(d) The rules and conditions governing commercial shipments for the time period within which notice must be given to the TSP, or a claim must be filed, or suit must be instituted, shall not apply if the shipment is lost, damaged or undergoes shrinkage in transit. Only with the written concurrence of the Government official responsible for making the shipment is the deletion of this item considered to be valid;
(e) Interest shall accrue from the voucher payment date on the overcharges made and shall be paid at the same rate in effect on that date as published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Debt Collection Act of 1982 31 U.S.C. 3717); and
(f) Additional mandatory terms and conditions are in this part and the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation—Handbook.”
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 57619, Sept. 24, 2004; 87 FR 32324, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.145
Where are the mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents?
The mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents are contained in this part and the “U.S. Government Passenger Transportation—Handbook.”
§ 102-118.150
What are the major mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents?
The mandatory terms and conditions governing the use of passenger transportation documents are:
(a) Government travel must be via the lowest cost available that meets travel requirements (
e.g.,
Government contract, fare, through, excursion, or reduced one way or round trip fare);
(b) The U.S. Government is not responsible for charges exceeding those applicable to the type, class, or character authorized in transportation documents;
(c) The U.S. Government contractor-issued charge card must be used to the maximum extent possible to procure passenger transportation tickets. GTRs must be used minimally;
(d) Government passenger transportation documents must be in accordance with Federal Travel Regulation Chapters 300 and 301 (41 CFR chapters 300 and 301), and the “U.S. Government Passenger Transportation—Handbook”;
(e) Interest shall accrue from the voucher payment date on overcharges made hereunder and shall be paid at the same rate in effect on that date as published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Debt Collection Act of 1982;
(f) The TSP must insert on the TD any known dates on which travel commenced;
(g) The issuing official or traveler, by signature, certifies that the requested transportation is for official business;
(h) The TSP must not honor any request containing erasures or alterations unless the TD contains the authentic, valid initials of the issuing official; and
(i) Additional mandatory terms and conditions are in this part and the “U. S. Government Passenger Transportation—Handbook.”
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.155
How does my agency handle supplemental billings from the TSP after payment of the original bill?
Your agency must process, review, and verify supplemental billings using the same procedures as on an original billing. If the TSP disputes the findings, your agency must attempt to resolve the disputed amount.
§ 102-118.160
Who is liable if my agency makes an overpayment on a transportation bill?
If the agency conducts prepayment audits of its transportation bills, agency transportation certifying and disbursing officers are liable for any overpayments made. If GSA has granted a waiver to the prepayment audit requirement and the agency performs a postpayment audit (31 U.S.C. 3528 and 31 U.S.C. 3322) neither the certifying nor disbursing officers are liable for the reasons listed in these two cited statutes.
§ 102-118.165
What must my agency do if it finds an error on a TSP bill?
Your agency must advise the TSP via statement of difference of any adjustment that you make either electronically or in writing within 7 days of receipt of the bill, as required by the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
). This notice must include the TSP's taxpayer identification number, standard carrier alpha code, bill number and document reference number, agency name, amount requested by the TSP, amount paid, payment voucher number, complete tender or tariff authority, the applicable rate authority and the complete fiscal authority including the appropriation.
§ 102-118.170
Will GSA continue to maintain a centralized numbering system for Government transportation documents?
No. For GTRs, GBLs, and commercial TDs, each agency must create a unique
numbering system to account for and prevent duplicate numbers.
[87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]

# Subpart C—Use of Government Billing Documents

# Terms and Conditions Governing Acceptance and Use of a Government Bill of Lading (GBL) or Government Transportation Request (GTR) (Until Form Retirement)
§ 102-118.185
When buying freight transportation, must my agency reference the applicable contract or tender on the bill of lading (including a GBL)?
Yes, your agency must reference the applicable contract or tender when buying transportation on a bill of lading (including GBLs). However, the referenced information on a GBL or bill of lading does not limit an audit of charges.
§ 102-118.190
When buying passenger transportation must my agency reference the applicable contract?
Yes, when buying passenger transportation, your agency must reference the applicable contract on a GTR or passenger transportation document (e.g., ticket).
§ 102-118.195
What documents must a transportation service provider (TSP) send to receive payment for a transportation billing?
For shipments bought on a TD, the TSP must submit an original properly certified GBL, PPGBL, or bill of lading and, when appropriate, an SF 1113, Public Voucher for Transportation Charges. The TSP must submit this package and all supporting documents to the agency paying office.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.200
Can a TSP demand advance payment for the transportation charges submitted on a bill of lading (including GBL)?
No, a TSP cannot demand advance payment for transportation charges submitted on a bill of lading (including GBL), unless authorized by law.
§ 102-118.205
May my agency pay a subcontractor or agent functioning as a warehouseman for the TSP providing service under the bill of lading?
No, your agency may only pay the TSP with whom it has a contract. The bill of lading will list the TSP with whom the Government has a contract.
§ 102-118.210
May my agency use bills of lading other than the GBL for a transportation shipment?
Yes, as long as the mandatory terms and conditions contained in this part (as also stated on a GBL) apply. The TSP must agree in writing to the mandatory terms and conditions (also found in the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook”) contained in this part.
§ 102-118.215
May my agency pay a TSP any extra fees to pay for the preparation and use of the GBL or GTR?
No, your agency must not pay any additional charges for the preparation and use of the GBL or GTR. Your agency may not pay a TSP a higher rate than comparable under commercial procedures for transportation bought on a GBL or GTR.
§ 102-118.220
If a transportation debt is owed to my agency by a TSP because of loss or damage to property, does my agency report it to GSA?
No, if your agency has administratively determined that a TSP owes a debt resulting from loss or damage, follow your agency regulations.
§ 102-118.225
What constitutes final receipt of shipment?
Final receipt of the shipment occurs when the consignee or a TSP acting on behalf of the consignee with the agency's permission, fully signs and dates both the delivering TSP's documents and the consignee's copy of the same documents indicating delivery and/or explaining any delay, loss, damage, or shrinkage of shipment.
§ 102-118.230
What if my agency creates or eliminates a field office approved to prepare transportation documents?
Your agency must tell the GSA Transportation Audits Division whenever it approves a new or existing agency field office to prepare transportation documents or when an agency field office is no longer authorized to do so. This notice must show the name, field office location of the bureau or office, and the date on which your agency granted or canceled its authority to schedule payments for transportation service.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]

# Agency Responsibilities When Using Government Bills of Lading (GBLs) or Government Transportation Requests (GTRs)
§ 102-118.235
Must my agency keep physical control and accountability of the GBL and GTR forms or GBL and GTR numbers?
Yes, your agency is responsible for the physical control, use, and accountability of GBLs and GTRs and must have procedures in place to track, manage, and account for these documents when necessary.
[89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.240
How does my agency get GBL and GTR forms?
The GBL (SF 1103) and GTR (OF 1169) are available in the GSA Forms Library at
https://www.gsa.gov/forms.
[87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.245
How does my agency get an assigned set of GBL or GTR numbers?
GSA no longer assigns numbers to GBLs or GTRs. Pursuant to § 102-118.55(g) you must establish administrative procedures including creating a unique numbering system to prevent and detect duplicate payments. These procedures should include agency assigned unique numbers for GBLs and GTRs.
[87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.250
Who is accountable for the issuance and use of GBL and GTR forms?
Agencies and employees are responsible for the issuance and use of GBL and GTR forms and are accountable for their disposition.
§ 102-118.255
Are GBL and GTR forms numbered and used sequentially?
Yes, GBLs and GTRs must be sequentially numbered by agencies when used.
[89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Quotations, Tenders or Contracts
§ 102-118.260
Must my agency send all quotations, tenders, or contracts with a TSP to GSA?
(a) Yes, your agency must send a copy of each quotation, tender, or contract of special rates, fares, charges, or concessions with TSPs including those authorized by 49 U.S.C. 10721, 13712, and 15504 upon execution to
qmcatariffs@gsa.gov.
(b) Tenders must be submitted electronically, following the instructions provided by the requesting agency. The following information must be submitted with the tender:
(1) Issuing TSP, Bureau, Agency or Conference.
(2) Tender number.
(3) Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC).
(4) TSP Tax Identification Number (TIN).
(5) Issue date.
(6) Effective date.
(7) Expiration date.
(8) Origin and destination.
(9) Freight Classification and/or commodity description (including origin and destination).
(10) Rate or charge for line haul rates.
(11) Minimum weights.
(12) Route(s).
(13) Accessorial services description(s) with rate or charge and governing publication.
(14) TSP operating authority.
(c) The TSP must include a statement that the TSP will adhere and agree to the following general terms and conditions. The services provided in this tender will be performed in accordance with applicable Federal,
State and municipal laws and regulations, including Federal Management Regulation parts 102-117 and 102-118 (41 CFR parts 102-117 and 102-118), and the TSP(s) hold(s) the required operating authority to transport the commodity from, to, or between the places specified in the authorized certificates, permits or temporary operating authorities.
[69 FR 57619, Sept. 24, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 30475, June 26, 2009; 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Subpart D—Prepayment Audit of Transportation Services

# Source:
81 FR 65300, Sept. 22, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Agency Requirements for a Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
§ 102-118.265
What is a prepayment audit?
Prepayment audit means a review of transportation documentation before payment to determine their validity, propriety, and conformity of rates with tariffs, quotations, agreements, contracts, or tenders. Prepayment auditing by your agency will detect and eliminate billing errors before payment (31 U.S.C. 3726).
§ 102-118.270
Must my agency establish a transportation prepayment audit program, and how is it funded?
(a) Yes, under 31 U.S.C. 3726, your agency is required to establish a transportation prepayment audit program. Your agency's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) must approve the prepayment audit program.
(b) Your agency must pay for the prepayment audit program from those funds appropriated for transportation services.
(1) Agencies are encouraged to consider using a GSA Transportation Audits Division approved third party electronic payment processor for transportation invoice processing, payment, and prepayment audit. These electronic payment processors are no cost to the agency and are fully compliant with GSA Transportation Audits Division prepayment audit requirements.
(2) Use of these third party payment processors generally means your agency will not have to provide any additional prepayment or postpayment documentation to GSA Transportation Audits Division.
§ 102-118.275
What must my agency consider when developing a transportation prepayment audit program?
(a) Your agency's transportation prepayment audit program must consider all of the methods that your agency uses to order and pay for passenger, household goods, and freight transportation to include Government contractor-issued charge cards (see § 102-118.35 for definition Government contractor-issued charge cards).
(b) Each method of ordering transportation and transportation services for passenger, household goods, and freight transportation may require a different kind of prepayment audit process. The manner in which your agency orders or procures transportation services determines how and by whom the bill for those services will be presented. Your agency should ensure that each TSP bill or employee travel voucher contains enough information for the prepayment audit to determine which contract or rate tender is used and that the type and quantity of any additional services are clearly delineated.
(c) The prepayment audit cannot be conducted by the same firm providing the transportation services for the agency. If a move manager is being utilized, the move manager may not have any affiliation with or financial interest in the transportation company providing the transportation services for which the prepayment audit is being conducted. Contracts with charge card companies that provide prepayment audit services are a valid option. The agency can choose to—
(1) Create an internal prepayment audit program;
(2) Contract directly with a prepayment audit service provider;
(3) Use the services of a prepayment audit contractor under GSA's multiple award schedule covering audit services,
including transportation prepayment audit services (541211 Auditing Services); or
(4) Use a third-party payment system (TPPS) or charge card company that includes prepayment audit functions.
(d) An appeals process must be established for a TSP to appeal any reduction in the amount billed. It is recommended the agency establish an electronic appeal process that will direct TSP-filed appeals to an agency official for determination of the claim.
(e) A process to ensure that all agency transportation procurement and related documents including contracts and tenders are submitted electronically to GSA Transportation Audits Division.
(f) Use of GSA Transportation Audits Division's Prepayment Audit Program template is recommended (contact
Audit.Policy@gsa.gov
for a copy of the template). If the template is not used, provide the same information listed on the template to GSA Transportation Audits Division.
[81 FR 65300, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.280
Must all transportation payment records, whether they are electronic or paper, undergo a prepayment audit?
Yes, all transportation bills and payment records, whether they are electronic or paper, must undergo a prepayment audit with the following exceptions:
(a) Your agency's prepayment audit program uses a statistical sampling technique of the bills. If your agency chooses to use statistical sampling, all bills must be
(1) Within the specified limits established by the Comptroller General (31 U.S.C. 3521(b)); and
(2) In compliance with the U.S. Government Accountability Office Using Statistical Sampling (GAO/PEMD-10.1.6), Rev. 1992, Chapter 7 Random Selection Procedures obtainable from
http://www.gao.gov;
or
(b) The Administrator of General Services grants your agency a specific exemption from the prepayment audit requirement which may include bills determined to be below your agency's threshold, mode or modes of transportation, or for an agency or subagency.
[81 FR 65300, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.285
What must be included in an agency's transportation prepayment audit program?
The agency prepayment audit program must include—
(a) The agency's CFO approval of the transportation prepayment audit program with submission to GSA Transportation Audits Division;
(b) Compliance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
);
(c) Assurance that each TSP bill or employee travel voucher contains appropriate information for the prepayment audit to determine which contract or rate tender is used and that the type and quantity of any additional services are clearly delineated;
(d) Verification of all transportation bills against filed rates and charges before payment;
(e) Agencies must use GSA Transportation Audits Division's electronic commerce system, TAMS, to fulfill all monthly reporting requirements. Filing all documents through TAMS ensures that GSA Transportation Audits Division will properly maintain and store transportation records, including paid transportation bills, in accordance with the General Records Schedule 1.1
et seq.
(36 CFR part 1220). GSA will also arrange for storage of any document requiring special handling, such as bankruptcy and court cases. These bills will be retained pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3309 until claims have been settled.
(f) A minimum dollar threshold for transportation bills subject to audit;
(g) A statement in a cost reimbursable contracts contract or rate tender that the contractor shall submit to the address and in the electronic format identified for prepayment audit, transportation documents which show that the United States will assume freight charges that were paid by the contractor. Cost reimbursable contractors shall only submit for audit bills of lading with freight shipment charges exceeding $100.00. Bills under $100.00 shall be retained on-site by the contractor
and made available for on-site Government audits (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.247-67);
(h) Require your agency's paying office to offset, if directed by GSA's Transportation Audits Division, debts from amounts owed to the TSP within the 3 years (31 U.S.C. 3726(d));
(i) A process to ensure complete and accurate audits of all transportation bills and notification to the TSP of any adjustment within 7 calendar days of receipt of the bill;
(j) An appeals process as part of the approved prepayment audit program for a TSP to appeal any reduction in the amount billed. Refer to § 102-118.295 for details regarding the appeals process.
(k) Accurate notices and agency procedures for notifying the TSPs with a detailed description of the reasons for any full or partial rejection of the stated charges on the invoice. Refer to § 102-118.290 for notice requirements; and
(l) A unique agency numbering system to handle commercial paper and practices (see § 102-118.55 for information on administrative procedures your agency must establish).
[81 FR 65300, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Agency Requirements With Transportation Service Providers
§ 102-118.290
Must my agency notify the TSP of any adjustment to the TSP bill?
(a) Yes, your agency must notify the TSP of any adjustment to the TSP bill either electronically or in writing within seven calendar days of the agency receipt of the bill.
(b) This notice must include:
(1) TSP's bill number;
(2) Agency name;
(3) TSP's TIN;
(4) SCAC;
(5) DRN;
(6) Date invoice submitted;
(7) Amount billed;
(8) Date invoice was approved for payment;
(9) Date and amount agency paid;
(10) Payment location number and agency organization name;
(11) Payment voucher number;
(12) Complete contract, tender or tariff authority, including item or section number;
(13) Reason for the adjustment; and
(14) Complete information on the agency appeal process.
(c) A TSP must submit claims to the agency within three years under the guidelines established in subpart F, Claims and Appeals Procedures, of this part.
§ 102-118.295
Does my agency transportation prepayment audit program need to establish appeal procedures?
Yes, your agency must establish, in the approved prepayment audit program, an appeals process for a TSP to appeal any reduction in the amount billed. It is recommended the agency establish an electronic appeal process that will direct TSP-filed appeals to an agency official for determination of the claim. Your agency must complete the review of the appeal and inform the TSP of the agency determination within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the appeal, either electronically or in writing.
§ 102-118.300
What must my agency do if the TSP disputes the findings and my agency cannot resolve the dispute?
(a) If your agency is unable to resolve the disputed amount with the TSP, your agency must submit, within 30 calendar days, all relevant transportation documentation associated with the dispute, including a complete billing history and the appropriation or fund charged, to GSA Transportation Audits Division via TAMS (
https://tams.gsa.gov
), or by email to
Audit.Policy@gsa.gov”
.
(b) The GSA Transportation Audits Division will review the appeal of an agency's final, full, or partial denial of a claim and issue a decision within 30 calendar days of receipt of appeal.
(c) A TSP must submit claims to the agency within three years under the guidelines established in subpart F of this part.
[81 FR 65300, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.305
What information must be on all transportation payment records that have completed my agency's prepayment audit?
(a) The following information must be annotated on all transportation payment records, electronically or on paper, that have completed your agency's prepayment audit and for submission to GSA Transportation Audits Division:
(1) The date the bill was received from a TSP;
(2) A TSP's invoice number;
(3) Your agency name;
(4) DRN;
(5) Amount billed;
(6) Date invoice was approved for payment;
(7) Date and amount agency paid;
(8) Payment location code number and office or organization name;
(9) Payment voucher number;
(10) Complete contract, tender or tariff authority, including item or section number;
(11) The TSP's TIN;
(12) The TSP's SCAC;
(13) The auditor's authorization code or initials; and
(14) A copy of any statement of difference and the date it was sent to the TSP.
(b) Your agency can find added guidance in the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook.” This handbook is located at
www.gsa.gov/transaudits.
§ 102-118.310
What does the GSA Transportation Audits Division consider when verifying an agency prepayment audit program?
GSA Transportation Audit Division bases verification of agency prepayment audit programs on objective cost-savings, paperwork reductions, current audit standards, and other positive improvements, as well as adherence to the guidelines listed in this part.
§ 102-118.315
How does my agency contact the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
Your agency may contact the GSA Transportation Audits Division at
Audit.Policy@gsa.gov.
§ 102-118.320
What action should my agency take if the agency's transportation prepayment audit program changes?
(a) If your agency's transportation prepayment audit program changes in any way to include changes in prepayment auditors, your agency must submit the CFO-approved revised transportation prepayment audit program to GSA Transportation Audits Division via email at
Audit.Policy@gsa.gov,
Subject line: Agency PPA-Revised.
(b) If GSA determines the agency's approved plan is insufficient, GSA will contact the agency CFO to inform of the prepayment audit program deficiencies and request corrective action and resubmission to GSA Transportation Audits Division.

# Agency Certifying and Disbursing Officers
§ 102-118.325
Does establishing an agency Chief Financial Officer-approved transportation prepayment audit program change the responsibilities of the certifying officers?
No, in a prepayment audit program, the official certifying a transportation voucher is held liable for verifying transportation rates, freight classifications, and other information provided on a transportation billing instrument or transportation request undergoing a prepayment audit (31 U.S.C. 3528).
§ 102-118.330
Does a transportation prepayment audit waiver change any liabilities of the certifying officer?
Yes, a certifying official is not personally liable for verifying transportation rates, freight classifications, or other information provided on a bill of lading or passenger transportation request when the Administrator of General Services or designee waives the prepayment audit requirement and your agency uses postpayment audits.
§ 102-118.335
What relief from liability is available for the certifying official under a transportation postpayment audit?
The agency counsel relieves a certifying official from liability for transportation overpayments in cases where—
(a) Postpayment is the approved method of auditing;
(b) The overpayment occurred solely because the administrative review before payment did not verify transportation rates; and
(c) The overpayment was the result of using improper transportation rates or freight classifications or the failure to deduct the correct amount under a land grant law or agreement.
§ 102-118.340
Do the requirements of a transportation prepayment audit change the disbursing official's liability for overpayment?
No, the disbursing official has a liability for overpayments on all transportation bills subject to prepayment audit (31 U.S.C. 3322).
§ 102-118.345
Where does relief from transportation prepayment audit liability for certifying, accountable, and disbursing officers reside in my agency?
Your agency's counsel has the authority to relieve liability and give advance opinions on liability issues to certifying, accountable, and disbursing officers (31 U.S.C. 3527).

# Exemptions and Suspensions of the Mandatory Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
§ 102-118.350
What agency has the authority to grant an exemption from the transportation prepayment audit requirement?
Only the Administrator of General Services or their designee has the authority to grant an exemption for a specific time period from the prepayment audit requirement. The Administrator may exempt bills, a particular mode or modes of transportation, or an agency or subagency from a prepayment audit and verification and in lieu thereof require a postpayment audit, based on cost effectiveness, public interest, or other factors the Administrator considers appropriate (31 U.S.C. 3726(a)(2)).
§ 102-118.355
How does my agency apply for an exemption from a transportation prepayment audit requirement?
Your agency must submit a request for an exemption from the requirement to perform transportation prepayment audits by email to
Audit.policy@gsa.gov,
Subject Line: Prepayment Audit Exemption Request. The agency exemption request must explain in detail why the request is submitted based on cost effectiveness, public interest, or other factors the Administrator considers appropriate, such as transportation modes, dollar thresholds, adversely affecting the agency's mission, or is not feasible (31 U.S.C. 3726(a)(2)).
§ 102-118.360
How long will GSA take to respond to an exemption request from a transportation prepayment audit requirement?
GSA will respond to the exemption from the transportation prepayment audit requirement request within 180 calendar days from the date of receipt.
§ 102-118.365
Can my agency renew an exemption from the transportation prepayment audit requirements?
It may be possible for your agency to be granted a prepayment audit exemption extension. Your agency must submit a request for the extension to GSA Transportation Audits Division at least six months in advance of the current exemption expiration.
§ 102-118.370
Are my agency's prepayment audited transportation documentation subject to periodic postpayment audit oversight from the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
Yes. All your agency's prepayment audited transportation documents are subject to the GSA Transportation Audits Division postpayment audit oversight. Upon request, GSA Transportation Audits Division will provide a report analyzing your agency's prepayment audit program.
§ 102-118.375
Can GSA suspend my agency's transportation prepayment audit program?
(a) Yes. The Director of the GSA Transportation Audits Division may suspend your agency's transportation
prepayment audit program until the agency corrects their prepayment audit program deficiencies. This suspension may be in whole or in part. If GSA suspends your agency's transportation prepayment audit and GSA assumes responsibility for auditing an agencies prepayment audit program, the agency will reimburse GSA for the expense.
(b) This suspension determination is based on identification of a systematic or frequent failure of the agency's transportation prepayment audit program to—
(1) Conduct a prepayment audit of your agency's transportation bills; and/or
(2) Abide by the terms of the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
);
(3) Adjudicate TSP claims disputing prepayment audit positions of the agency regularly within 30 calendar days of receipt;
(4) Follow Comptroller General decisions, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals decisions, the Federal Management Regulation and GSA instructions or precedents about substantive and procedure matters; and/or
(5) Provide information and data or to cooperate with on-site inspections necessary to conduct a quality assurance review.

# Subpart E—Postpayment Transportation Audits

# Source:
81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-118.400
What is a transportation postpayment audit?
Postpayment audit
means an audit of transportation billing documents after payment to decide their validity, propriety, and conformity of rates with tariffs, quotations, agreements, contracts, or tenders. The audit may also include subsequent adjustments and collection actions taken against a TSP by the Government (31 U.S.C. 3726).
§ 102-118.405
Who conducts a transportation postpayment audit?
The Administrator of General Services (GSA) has a congressionally mandated responsibility under 31 U.S.C. 3726 to perform oversight on transportation bills. The GSA Transportation Audits Division accomplishes this oversight by conducting postpayment audits of all agencies' transportation bills.
§ 102-118.410
If agencies perform the mandatory transportation prepayment audit, will this eliminate the requirement for a transportation postpayment audit conducted by GSA?
No, agency compliance to the mandatory transportation prepayment audit does not eliminate the requirement of the transportation postpayment audit conducted by GSA (31 U.S.C. 3726).
§ 102-118.415
Can the Administrator of General Services exempt the transportation postpayment audit requirement?
Yes. The Administrator of General Services or designee may exempt, for a specified time, an agency or subagency from the GSA transportation postpayment audit oversight requirements of this subpart. The Administrator can also exempt a particular mode or modes of transportation (31 U.S.C. 3726).
[81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.420
Is my agency allowed to perform a postpayment audit on our transportation documents?
No. Your agency may not perform a transportation postpayment audit unless granted an exemption and specifically directed to do so by the Administrator in lieu of a prepayment audit. Whether such an exemption is granted or not, your agency must forward all transportation documents (TD) to GSA for postpayment audit (see § 102-118.35 for definition TD).
§ 102-118.425
Is my agency required to forward all transportation documents (TDs) to GSA Transportation Audits Division, and what information must be on these documents?
(a) Yes, your agency must provide all TDs, via TAMS, to GSA Transportation Audits Division (see § 102-118.35 for the definition of TD).
(b) The following information must be annotated on all TDs and bills that
have completed your agency's prepayment audit for submission to GSA Transportation Audits Division:
(1) The date the bill was received from a TSP;
(2) A TSP's invoice number;
(3) Your agency name;
(4) A DRN;
(5) Amount billed;
(6) Date invoice was approved for payment;
(7) Payment date and amount agency paid;
(8) Payment location code number and office name;
(9) Payment voucher number;
(10) Complete contract, tender, or tariff authority, including item or section number;
(11) The TSP's TIN;
(12) The TSP's SCAC;
(13) The auditor's full name, email address, contact telephone number, and authorization code; and
(14) A copy of any statement of difference sent to the TSP.
(c) Your agency can find additional guidance in the “U.S. Government Freight Transportation Handbook.” This handbook is located at
www.gsa.gov/transaudits.
[81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.430
What is the process the GSA Transportation Audits Division employs to conduct a postpayment audit?
The GSA Transportation Audits Division
(a) Audits select TSP bills after payment;
(b) Audits select TSP bills before payment as needed to protect the Government's interest;
(c) Examines, settles, and adjusts accounts involving payment for transportation and related services for the account of agencies;
(d) Adjudicates and settles transportation claims by and against agencies;
(e) Offsets an overcharge by any TSP from an amount subsequently found to be due that TSP;
(f) Issues a Notice of Overcharge stating that a TSP owes a debt to the agency; and
(g) Issues a GSA Notice of Indebtedness when a TSP owes an ordinary debt to an agency.
[81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.435
What are the transportation postpayment audit roles and responsibilities of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
(a) The GSA Transportation Audits Division role is to perform the oversight responsibility of transportation prepayment and postpayment granted to the Administrator. The GSA Transportation Audits Division will—
(1) Examine and analyze transportation documents and payments to discover their validity, relevance and conformity with tariffs, quotations, contracts, agreements, or tenders and make adjustments to protect the interest of an agency;
(2) Examine, adjudicate, and settle transportation claims by and against the agency;
(3) Collect from TSPs by refund, setoff, offset, or other means, the amounts determined to be due the agency;
(4) Adjust, terminate, or suspend debts due on TSP overcharges;
(5) Prepare reports to the Attorney General of the United States with recommendations about the legal and technical bases available for use in prosecuting or defending suits by or against an agency and provide technical, fiscal, and factual data from relevant records;
(6) Provide transportation specialists and lawyers to serve as expert witnesses; assist in pretrial conferences; draft pleadings, orders, and briefs; and participate as requested in connection with transportation suits by or against an agency;
(7) Review agency policies, programs, and procedures to determine their adequacy and effectiveness in the audit of all transportation payments, and review related fiscal and transportation practices;
(8) Furnish information on rates, fares, routes, and related technical data upon request;
(9) Inform an agency of irregular shipping routing practices, inadequate commodity descriptions, excessive
transportation cost authorizations, and unsound principles employed in traffic and transportation management; and
(10) Confer with individual TSPs or related groups and associations presenting specific modes of transportation to resolve mutual problems concerning technical and accounting matters, and providing information on requirements.
(b) The Administrator of General Services may provide transportation audit and related technical assistance services, on a reimbursable basis, to any other agency. Such reimbursements may be credited to the appropriate revolving fund or appropriation from which the expenses were incurred (31 U.S.C. 3726(j)).
[81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.440
Does my agency pay for a transportation postpayment audit conducted by the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
The GSA Transportation Audits Division does not charge agencies a fee for conducting the transportation postpayment audit. Transportation postpayment audits expenses are financed from overpayments collected from the TSP's bills previously paid by the agency and similar types of refunds. However, if a postpayment audit is conducted in lieu of a prepayment audit at the request of an agency, or if there are additional services required, GSA may charge the agency.
[81 FR 65303, Sept. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Subpart F—Claims and Appeal Procedures

# General Agency Information for All Claims
§ 102-118.450
Can a TSP file a transportation claim against my agency?
Yes, a TSP may file a transportation claim against your agency under 31 U.S.C. 3726 for:
(a) Amounts owed but not included in the original billing;
(b) Amounts deducted or set off by an agency that are disputed by the TSP;
(c) Requests by a TSP for amounts previously refunded in error by that TSP; and/or
(d) Unpaid original bills requiring direct settlement by GSA, including those subject to doubt about the suitability of payment (mainly bankruptcy or fraud).
§ 102-118.455
What is the time limit for a TSP to file a transportation claim with the GSA Transportation Audits Division against my agency?
The time limits on a TSP transportation claim against the Government differ by mode as shown in the following table:
Time Limits on Actions Taken by TSP
Mode
Freight charges
Statute
(a) Air domestic
6 years
28 U.S.C. 2401, 2501.
(b) Air international
6 years
28 U.S.C. 2401, 2501.
(c) Freight forwarders (subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
3 years
49 U.S.C. 14705(f).
(d) Motor
3 years
49 U.S.C. 14705(f).
(e) Rail
3 years
49 U.S.C. 11705(f).
(f) Water (subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
3 years
49 U.S.C. 14705(f).
(g) Water (not subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
2 years
46 U.S.C. 30905.
(h) TSPs not specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section
6 years
28 U.S.C. 2401, 2501.
[89 FR 93196, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.460
What is the time limit for my agency to file a court claim with a TSP for freight charges, refund of overpayment, and loss or damage to the property?
Statutory time limits vary depending on the mode and the service involved
and may involve freight charges. The following tables list the time limits:
(a)
Time limits on actions taken by the Federal Government against TSPs.
Mode
Freight charges
Refund for overpayment
Loss and damage
(1) Rail
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 11705
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 11705
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(2) Motor
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(3) Freight forwarders (subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(4) Water (subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
3 years. 49 U.S.C. 14705(f)
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(5) Water (not subject to 49 U.S.C. chapter 135)
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
3 years. 46 U.S.C. 41301
1 year; Carriage of Goods By Sea Act, 46 USC 30701 Notes.
(6) Domestic air
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(7) International air
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
2 years. 49 U.S.C. 40105.
(b)
Time limits on actions taken by the Federal Government against TSPs not specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
Mode
Freight
Refund for overpayment
Loss and damage
(1) All
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415
6 years. 28 U.S.C. 2415.
(2) [Reserved]
[89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.465
Must my agency pay interest on a disputed amount claimed by a TSP?
No, interest penalties under the Prompt Payment Act, (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
), are not required when payment is delayed because of a dispute between an agency and a TSP.
§ 102-118.470
Are there statutory time limits for a TSP on filing a claim with the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
Yes, a claim must be received by the GSA Transportation Audits Division or its designee (the agency where the claim arose) within 3 years beginning the day after the latest of the following dates (except in time of war):
(a) Accrual of the cause of action;
(b) Payment of charges for the transportation involved;
(c) Subsequent refund for overpayment of those charges; or
(d) Deductions made to a TSP claim by the Government under 31 U.S.C. 3726.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022; 89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.475
Does interest apply after certification of payment of claims?
Yes, interest under the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
) begins 30 days after certification for payment by GSA.
§ 102-118.480
How does my agency settle disputes with a TSP?
As a part of the prepayment audit program, your agency must have a plan to resolve disputes with a TSP. This program must allow a TSP to appeal payment decisions made by your agency.
§ 102-118.485
Is there a time limit for my agency to issue a decision on disputed claims?
Yes, your agency must issue a ruling on a disputed claim within 30 days of receipt of the claim.
§ 102-118.490
What if my agency fails to settle a disputed claim with a TSP within 30 days?
(a) If your agency fails to settle a disputed claim with a TSP within 30 days, the TSP may appeal to GSA via TAMS—
https://tams.gsa.gov.
(b) If the TSP disagrees with the administrative settlement by the GSA Transportation Audits Division, the TSP may appeal to the Civilian Board
of Contract Appeals (CBCA) (see § 102-118.35 for a definition of Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)).
[89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.495
May my agency appeal a decision by the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)?
No, your agency may not appeal a decision made by the CBCA.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]
§ 102-118.500
How does my agency handle a voluntary refund submitted by a TSP?
(a) An agency must report all voluntary refunds to the GSA Transportation Audits Division (so that no Notice of Overcharge or financial offset occurs), unless other arrangements are made (
e.g.,
charge card refunds, etc.). These reports must be sent via email to:
audit.policy@gsa.gov.
(b) Once a Notice of Overcharge is issued by the GSA Transportation Audits Division, then any refund is no longer considered voluntary and the agency must forward the refund to the GSA Transportation Audits Division.
[87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.505
Must my agency send a voluntary refund to the Treasurer of the United States?
No, your agency may keep and use voluntary refunds submitted by a TSP, if the refund was made prior to a Notice of Overcharge issued by the GSA Transportation Audits Division.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32325, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.510
Can my agency revise or alter a Certificate of Settlement?
Generally, no, an agency must not revise or alter amounts on a Certificate of Settlement. The only change an agency can make to a Certificate of Settlement is to change the agency financial data to a correct cite. Any Certificate of Settlement1 that cannot be paid (e.g., an amount previously paid), must be immediately returned to the GSA Transportation Audits Division with an explanation.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]; 89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024
§ 102-118.515
Does my agency have any recourse not to pay a Certificate of Settlement?
No, a Certificate of Settlement is the final administrative action.
§ 102-118.520
Who is responsible for determining the standards for collection, compromise, termination, or suspension of collection action on any outstanding debts to my agency?
Under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3711,
et seq.
), the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General have joint responsibility for issuing standards for your agency.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.525
What are my agency's responsibilities for verifying the correct amount of transportation charges?
Your agency's employees are responsible for diligently verifying the correct amount of transportation charges prior to payment (31 U.S.C. 3527).
§ 102-118.530
Will GSA instruct my agency's disbursing offices to offset unpaid TSP billings?
Yes, GSA will instruct one or more of your agency's disbursing offices to deduct the amount due from an unpaid TSP's bill. A 3-year limitation applies on the deduction of overcharges from amounts due a TSP (31 U.S.C. 3726). For ordinary debt there is no limitation on the period within which an offset may be initiated or taken (31 U.S.C. 3716).
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.535
Are there principles governing my agency's TSP debt collection procedures?
Yes, the principles governing your agency collection procedures for reporting debts to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) or the Department of Justice are found in 31
CFR chapter IX and in the GAO Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies (
https://www.gao.gov/products/149099
).
[87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.540
Who has the authority to audit and settle bills for all transportation services provided for my agency?
(a) The Administrator of GSA has the authority and responsibility to audit and settle all transportation bills. The number and types of bills audited shall be based on the Administrator's judgment (31 U.S.C. 3726(b)). The Administrator has authority to administratively adjudicate transportation claims which cannot be resolved by the agency procuring the transportation services, or the carrier or freight-forwarder presenting the bill pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726(c).
(b) The Administrator has delegated the responsibility set out in paragraph (a) of this section to the Director of the GSA Transportation Audits Division because the Director has access to Governmentwide data including TSP rates, agency paid TSP invoices, and transportation billings with the Government. Your agency must correctly pay individual transportation invoices (see 31 U.S.C. 3351(4),
Improper Payment
definition).
[89 FR 93197, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Filing Requirements
§ 102-118.545
What information must a TSP claim include?
All claims filed with GSA Transportation Audits Division either using TAMS (preferred) or via email (
protests@gsa.gov
) must include:
(a) The transportation document.
(b) An explanation for the claim.
(c) Any additional supporting documentation.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.550
How does a TSP file a claim using EDI or other electronic means?
A TSP should file a claim using GSA Transportation Audits Management System (TAMS)
https://tams.gsa.gov.
[87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.555
Can a TSP file a supplemental claim?
Yes, a TSP may file a supplemental claim. Each supplemental claim must cover charges relating to one paid transportation document.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.560
What is the required format that a TSP must use to file a claim?
There is no required format for filing claims. TSPs should file a claim through TAMS or by sending the required information and documentation (see §§ 102-118.545 and 102-118.565) to GSA Transportation Audits Division via email to
protests@gsa.gov.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.565
What documentation is required when filing a claim?
A claim must be accompanied by the transportation document, payment record, reports and information available to GSA and/or to the agency involved and the written and documentary records submitted by the TSP. Oral presentations supplementing the written record are not acceptable.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) and Agency Appeal Procedures for Prepayment Audits
§ 102-118.570
If my agency denies the TSP's challenge to the statement of difference, may the TSP appeal?
Yes, the TSP may appeal if your agency denies its challenge to the statement of difference. However, the appeal must be handled at a higher level in your agency.
§ 102-118.575
If a TSP disagrees with the decision of my agency, can the TSP appeal?
Yes, the TSP may file a claim with the GSA Transportation Audits Division, which will review the TSP's appeal of your agency's final full or partial denial of a claim. The TSP may also appeal to the GSA Transportation Audits Division if your agency has not responded to a challenge within 30 days.
[87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.580
May a TSP appeal a prepayment audit decision of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
Yes, the TSP may appeal to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA) under guidelines established in this subpart F, or file a claim with the United States Court of Federal Claims. The TSP's request for review must be received by the CBCA in writing within 6 months (not including times of war) from the date the settlement action was taken or within the periods of limitation specified in 31 U.S.C. 3726, as amended, whichever is later. Filing instructions including where and how to file are available at
cbca.gov/howto/rules/transportation.html#transportation.
[78 FR 71529, Nov. 29, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.585
May a TSP appeal a prepayment audit decision of the CBCA?
No, a ruling by the CBCA is the final administrative remedy available and the TSP has no statutory right of appeal. This subpart governs administrative actions only and does not affect any of the TSP's rights. A TSP may still pursue a legal remedy through the courts.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]
§ 102-118.590
May my agency appeal a prepayment audit decision of the GSA Transportation Audits Division?
No, your agency may not appeal. A GSA Transportation Audits Division decision is administratively final for your agency.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.595
May my agency appeal a prepayment audit decision by the CBCA?
No, your agency may not appeal a prepayment audit decision. Your agency must follow the ruling of the CBCA.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) and Agency Appeal Procedures for Postpayment Audits
§ 102-118.600
When a TSP disagrees with a Notice of Overcharge resulting from a postpayment audit, what are the appeal procedures?
A TSP that disagrees with the Notice of Overcharge may submit a protest to the GSA Transportation Audits Division via TAMS (
https://tams.gsa.gov
) or email to
protests@gsa.gov.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.605
What if a TSP disagrees with the Notice of Indebtedness?
If a TSP disagrees with an ordinary debt, as shown on a Notice of Indebtedness, it may:
(a) Inspect and copy the agency's records related to the claim;
(b) Seek administrative review by the GSA Transportation Audits Division of the claim decision; and/or
(c) Enter a written agreement for the payment of the claims.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.610
Is a TSP notified when GSA allows a claim?
Yes, the GSA Transportation Audits Division will acknowledge each payable claim using a Certificate of Settlement.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.615
Will GSA notify a TSP if they internally offset a payment?
Yes, the GSA Transportation Audits Division will notify the TSP via TAMS or email if GSA offsets a payment.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.620
How will a TSP know if the GSA Transportation Audits Division disallows a claim?
The GSA Transportation Audits Division will furnish a GSA Form 7932, Settlement Certificate, to the TSP explaining the disallowance.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.625
Can a TSP request a reconsideration of a settlement action by the GSA Audit Division?
Yes, a TSP desiring a reconsideration of a settlement action may request a review by the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-118.630
How must a TSP refund amounts due to GSA?
(a) TSPs must promptly refund amounts due to GSA, preferably via TAMS or by ACH. If an ACH is not used, checks must be made payable to the “General Services Administration”, including the document reference number, TSP name, bill number(s), taxpayer identification number and standard carrier alpha code, then mailed to the appropriate address listed on the Accounts and Collections web page at
https://www.gsa.gov/transaudits.
(b) If an ACH address is needed, visit
https://www.gsa.gov/transaudits
(Accounts and Collections web page) or contact the GSA Transportation Audits Division via email at:
audits.collections@gsa.gov.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
[87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.635
Can the Government charge interest on an amount due from a TSP?
Yes, the Government can charge interest on an amount due from a TSP. This procedure is provided for under the Debt Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3717), the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR chapter IX), and 41 CFR part 105-55.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.640
If a TSP fails to pay or to appeal an overcharge, what actions will GSA pursue to collect the debt?
GSA will pursue debt collection through one of the following methods:
(a) When an indebted TSP files a claim, GSA will apply all or any portion of the amount it determines to be due the TSP, to the outstanding balance owed by the TSP, under the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR chapter IX) and 41 CFR part 105-55;
(b) When the action outlined in paragraph (a) of this section cannot be taken by GSA, GSA will instruct one or more Government disbursing offices to deduct the amount due to the agency from an unpaid TSP's bill. A 3-year limitation applies on the deduction of overcharges from amounts due a TSP (31 U.S.C. 3726);
(c) When collection cannot be accomplished through either of the procedures in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, GSA normally sends two additional demand letters to the indebted TSP requesting payment of the amount due within a specified time. Lacking a satisfactory response, GSA may place a complete stop order against amounts otherwise payable to the indebted TSP by adding the name of that TSP to the Department of the Army “List of Contractors Indebted to the United States”; and/or
(d) When collection actions, as stated in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are unsuccessful, GSA may report the debt to the Department of Justice for collection, litigation, and related proceedings, as prescribed in 31 CFR chapter IX.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32326, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.645
Can a TSP file a claim on collection actions?
Yes, a TSP may file a claim involving collection actions resulting from the transportation audit performed by the GSA directly with the GSA Transportation Audits Division. Any claims
submitted to GSA will be subject to the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901,
et seq.
). The TSP must file all other transportation claims with the agency out of whose activities they arose. If this is not feasible (
e.g.,
where the responsible agency cannot be determined or is no longer in existence) claims may be sent to the GSA Transportation Audits Division for forwarding to the responsible agency or for direct settlement by the GSA Transportation Audits Division. Submit claims using Transportation Audits Management System (TAMS) at
https://tams.gsa.gov
or via email to
protests@gsa.gov.
[89 FR 93198, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 102-118.650
Can a TSP request a review of a settlement action by the Administrator of General Services?
Yes, a TSP desiring a review of a settlement action taken by the Administrator of General Services may request a review by the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA) or file a claim with the United States Court of Federal Claims (28 U.S.C. 1491).
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]
§ 102-118.655
Are there time limits on a TSP request for an administrative review by the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA)?
Yes, the CBCA must receive a request for review from the TSP within six months (not including times of war) from the date the settlement action was taken or within the periods of limitation specified in 31 U.S.C. 3726, as amended, whichever is later. Details regarding where and how to file are available at
cbca.gov/howto/rules/transportation.html#transportation.
[78 FR 71529, Nov. 29, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 32327, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.660
May a TSP appeal a postpayment audit decision of the CBCA?
No, a ruling by the CBCA is the final administrative remedy and the TSP has no statutory right of appeal. This subpart governs administrative actions only and does not affect any rights of the TSPs. A TSP may still pursue a legal remedy through the courts.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]
§ 102-118.665
May my agency appeal a postpayment audit decision by the CBCA?
No, your agency may not appeal a postpayment audit decision and must follow the ruling of the CBCA.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 30476, June 26, 2009]

# Transportation Service Provider (TSP) Non-Payment of a Claim
§ 102-118.670
If a TSP cannot immediately pay a debt, can they make other arrangements for payment?
Yes, if a TSP is unable to pay the debt promptly, the Director of the GSA Transportation Audits Division has the discretion to enter into alternative arrangements for payment.
[65 FR 24569, Apr. 26, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 32327, May 31, 2022]
§ 102-118.675
What recourse does my agency have if a TSP does not pay a transportation debt?
If a TSP does not pay a transportation debt, GSA may refer delinquent debts to consumer reporting agencies and Federal agencies including the Department of the Treasury and Department of Justice.
PARTS 102-119—102-140 [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTER E—TRAVEL MANAGEMENT
PART 102-141—GENERAL [RESERVED]
PARTS 102-142—102-170 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F—TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PART 102-171—GENERAL [RESERVED]
PART 102-172—TELECOMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT POLICY [RESERVED]
PARTS 102-173—102-190 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER G—ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMS
PART 102-191—GENERAL [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-192

# PART 102-192—MAIL MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—Introduction to This Part
Sec.
102-192.5
What does this part cover?
102-192.10
What authority governs this part?
102-192.15
How are “I,” “you,” “me,” “we,” and “us” used in this part?
102-192.20
How are “must” and “should” used in this part?
102-192.25
Does this part apply to me?
102-192.30
To what types of mail and materials does this part apply?
102-192.35
What definitions apply to this part?
102-192.40
Where can we obtain more information about the classes of mail?
102-192.45
How can we request a deviation from these requirements, and who can approve it?

# Subpart B—Agency Requirements

# Financial Requirements for All Agencies
102-192.50
What payment processes are we required to use?
102-192.55
Why must we use these payment processes?
102-192.60
How do we implement these payment processes?
102-192.65
What features must our finance systems have to keep track of mail expenditures?

# Security Requirements for All Agencies
102-192.70
What security policies and plans must we have?
102-192.75
Why must we have written security policies and plans?
102-192.80
How do we develop written security policies and plans?

# Reporting Requirements
102-192.85
Who must report to GSA annually?
102-192.90
What must we include in our annual mail management report to GSA?
102-192.95
Why does GSA require annual mail management reports?
102-192.100
How do we submit our annual mail management report to GSA?
102-192.105
When must we submit our annual mail management report to GSA?

# Performance Measurement Requirements for All Agencies
102-192.110
At what levels in our agency must we have performance measures?
102-192.115
Why must we use performance measures?

# Agency Mail Manager Requirements
102-192.120
Must we have an agency mail manager?
102-192.125
What is the appropriate managerial level for an agency mail manager?
102-192.130
What are your general responsibilities as an agency mail manager?

# Subpart C—GSA's Responsibilities and Services
102-192.135
What are GSA's responsibilities in mail management?
102-192.140
What types of support does GSA offer to Federal agency mail management programs?

# Authority:
44 U.S.C. 2901-2904.

# Source:
79 FR 33478, June 11, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction to this Part
§ 102-192.5
What does this part cover?
This part prescribes policy and requirements for the effective, economical, and secure management of incoming, internal, and outgoing mail and materials in Federal agencies.
§ 102-192.10
What authority governs this part?
This part is governed by section 2 of Public Law 94-575, the Federal Records Management Amendments of 1976 (44 U.S.C. 2901-2904, as amended), that requires the Administrator of General Services to provide guidance and assistance to Federal agencies to ensure economical and effective records management and defines the processing of mail by Federal agencies as a records management activity.
§ 102-192.15
How are “I,” “you,” “me,” “we,” and “us” used in this part?
In this part, “I,” “me,” and “you” refer to the agency mail manager, a person working in a Federal mail operation, or the agency itself. Where the
context does not make it entirely clear which is meant, the meaning is spelled out the first time a pronoun is used in the section. “We,” “us,” and “you” in the plural refer to your Federal agency.
§ 102-192.20
How are “must” and “should” used in this part?
In this part—
(a) “Must” identifies steps that Federal agencies are required to take; and
(b) “Should” identifies steps that the GSA recommends. In their internal policy statements, agencies may require steps that GSA recommends.
§ 102-192.25
Does this part apply to me?
Yes, this part applies to you if you work in mail management in a Federal agency, as defined in § 102-192.35.
§ 102-192.30
To what types of mail and materials does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to all materials that pass through a Federal mail center, including all incoming and outgoing materials. This includes:
(1) First Class Mail;
(2) Standard Mail;
(3) Periodicals;
(4) Package Services; and
(5) Express Mail.
(b) This part does not apply to shipments of parts or supplies from a material distribution center. A material distribution center is a warehouse that maintains and distributes an inventory of parts and supplies.
§ 102-192.35
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Accountable mail
means any piece of mail for which a service provider and the mail center must maintain a record that shows where the mail piece is at any given time, and when and where it was delivered. Examples of
accountable mail
include United States Postal Service (USPS) registered mail and all expedited mail.
Agency mail manager
means the person who manages the overall mail management program of a Federal agency.
Class of mail
means one of the five categories of domestic mail as defined by the Mailing Standards of the USPS in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) located at
http://pe.usps.gov/.
These include:
(1) Express mail;
(2) First class (includes priority mail);
(3) Periodicals;
(4) Standard mail, bulk business mail; and
(5) Package services.
Commercial payment process
means paying for postage using the United States Postal Service's Centralized Account Processing System or another payment approach used by the private sector.
Commingling
means combining outgoing mail from one facility or agency with outgoing mail from at least one other source.
Consolidation
means the process of combining into a container two or more pieces of mail directed to the same addressee or installation on the same day.
Consolidation of facilities
means the process of combining more than one mail center into a central location. The decision to consolidate should be based on a cost analysis comparing the projected cost savings to the cost of implementation.
Expedited mail
means mail designated for overnight and 2- or 3-day delivery by service providers. Examples of
expedited mail
include Dalsey, Hillblom, Lynn (DHL); Federal Express (FedEx); United Parcel Service (UPS); and United States Postal Service (USPS) express mail.
Federal agency or agency
as defined in 44 U.S.C. 2901(14) means—
(1) An executive agency, which includes:
(i) Any executive department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101;
(ii) Any wholly owned Government corporation as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101;
(iii) Any independent establishment in the executive branch as defined in 5 U.S.C. 104; and
(2) Any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government, except the Supreme Court, the Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol, and any activities under the direction of
the Architect of the Capitol.
Federal facility or facility
means any office building, installation, base, etc., where Federal agency employees work. This includes any facility where the Federal Government pays postage expenses even though few or no Federal employees are involved in processing the mail.
Incoming mail
means any mail that comes into a facility delivered by any service provider, such as DHL, FedEx, UPS, and USPS.
Internal mail
means mail generated within a Federal facility that is delivered within that facility or to a nearby facility of the same agency, so long as it is delivered by agency personnel.
Large agency
means a Federal agency whose collective total payments to all mail service providers equals or exceeds $1 million per fiscal year.
Mail
means that as described in § 102-192.30.
Mail center
means an organization and/or place, within or associated with a Federal facility, where incoming and/or outgoing Federal mail and materials are processed.
Mail expenditures
means direct expenses for postage, fees and services, and all other mail costs, meter fees, permit fees, etc. (
e.g.,
payments to service providers, mail center personnel costs, mail center overhead).
Mail piece design
means creating and printing items to be mailed so that they can be processed efficiently and effectively by USPS automated mail processing equipment.
Official Mail
means incoming or outgoing mail that is related to official business of the Federal Government.
Official Mail Accounting System (OMAS)
means the USPS Government-specific system used to track postage.
Outgoing mail
means mail generated within a Federal facility that is going outside that facility.
Personal mail
means incoming or outgoing mail that is not related to official business of the Federal Government.
Postage
means payment for delivery service that is affixed or imprinted to a mail piece usually in the form of a postage stamp, permit, imprint, or meter impression.
Presort
means a mail preparation process used to receive a discounted mail rate by sorting mail according to USPS standards.
Program level
means a component, bureau, regional office, and/or a facility that generates outgoing mail.
Service provider
means any agency or company that delivers materials and mail. Some examples of service providers are DHL, FedEx, UPS, USPS, courier services, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of State's Diplomatic Pouch and Mail Division, and other Federal agencies providing mail services.
Sustainability/Sustainable
means to create and maintain conditions under which humans and nature can exist in productive harmony.
Sustainability
efforts seek to fulfill the social, economic, and environmental needs of present and future generations.
Telework
means a flexible work arrangement under which an employee performs assigned duties and responsibilities, and other authorized activities, from an approved alternate location.
Unauthorized use of agency postage
means the use of penalty or commercial mail stamps, meter impressions, or other postage indicia for personal or unofficial use.
Worksharing
is one way of processing outgoing mail so that the mail qualifies for reduced postage rates (
e.g.,
presorting, bar coding, consolidating, commingling).
§ 102-192.40
Where can we obtain more information about the classes of mail?
You can learn more about mail classes in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM). The DMM is available online at
http://pe.usps.gov,
or you can order a copy from: Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.
§ 102-192.45
How can we request a deviation from these requirements, and who can approve it?
See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of this part. The Administrator of General Services and those to whom the Administrator has
delegated such authority have the power to approve or deny a deviation.

# Subpart B—Agency Requirements

# Financial Requirements for All Agencies
§ 102-192.50
What payment processes are we required to use?
(a) You must pay the USPS using one or more of the following:
(1) The U.S. Treasury Intergovernmental Payment and Collection Payment (IPAC) process associated with the Official Mail Accounting System (OMAS);
(2) The USPS Centralized Account Processing System (CAPS) associated with commercial payments; or
(3) Another Treasury approved means of paying the USPS.
(b) Payments made to service providers other than USPS must be made by U.S. Treasury payment methods such as automated clearing house-electronic funds transfer, or another Treasury approved means of paying the vendor.
§ 102-192.55
Why must we use these payment processes?
In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 2904, GSA is required to standardize and improve accountability with respect to records management, including Federal mail management.
§ 102-192.60
How do we implement these payment processes?
Guidance on implementing the Intra-governmental Payment and Collection System can be found at:
http://www.fms.treas.gov/ipac/index.html.
§ 102-192.65
What features must our finance systems have to keep track of mail expenditures?
All agencies must have an accountable system for making postage payments; that is, a system that allocates postage expenses at the program level within the agency and makes program level managers accountable for obligating and tracking those expenses. The agency will have to determine the appropriate program level for this requirement because the level at which it is cost beneficial differs widely. The agency's finance systems should track all mail expenditures separately to the program level or below, and should—
(a) Show expenses for postage and all other mail expenditures, payments to service providers, etc., separate from all other administrative expenses;
(b) Allow mail centers to establish systems to charge their customers for mail expenditures; and
(c) Identify and charge the mail expenditures that are part of printing contracts down to the program level.

# Security Requirements for All Agencies
§ 102-192.70
What security policies and plans must we have?
(a) Agencies must have a written mail security policy that applies throughout your agency.
(b) Agencies must have a written mail security plan for each facility that processes mail, regardless of the facility's mail volume.
(c) Agencies must have a security policy for employees receiving incoming and sending outgoing mail at an alternative worksite, such as a telework center.
(d) The scope and level of detail of each facility mail security plan should be commensurate with the size and responsibilities of each facility. For small facilities, agencies may use a general plan for similar locations. For larger locations, agencies must develop a plan that is specifically tailored to the threats and risks at your location. Agencies should determine which facilities they consider small and large for the purposes of this section, so long as the basic requirements for a security plan are met at every facility.
(e) All mail managers are required to annually report the status of their mail security plans to agency headquarters. At a minimum, these reports should assure that all mail security plans comply with the requirements of this part, including annual review by a subject matter expert and regular rehearsal of responses to various emergency situations by facility personnel.
(f) A security professional who has expertise in mail center security
should review the agency's mail security plan and policies annually to include identification of any deficiencies. Review of facility mail security plans can be accomplished by subject matter experts such as agency security personnel. If these experts are not available within your agency, seek assistance from the U.S. Postal Inspection Service (
https://postalinspectors.uspis.gov/
) or the Federal Protective Service (FPS) (
http://www.dhs.gov/federal-protective-service
).
§ 102-192.75
Why must we have written security policies and plans?
All Federal mail programs must identify, prioritize, and coordinate the protection of all mail processing facilities in order to prevent, deter, and mitigate the effects of deliberate efforts to destroy, incapacitate, or exploit the mail center or the national mail infrastructure. Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD 7) at
http://www.fas.org/irp/offdocs/nspd/hspd-7.html
requires all agencies to protect key resources from terrorist attacks. All Federal mail centers are identified as key resources under the Postal and Shipping Sector Plan. Further details on the plan can be found at the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Web site at
http://www.dhs.gov/.
§ 102-192.80
How do we develop written security policies and plans?
Agency mail managers must coordinate with their agency security service and/or the FPS or the U.S. Postal Inspection Service to develop agency mail security policies and plans. The FPS has developed standards for building construction and management, including standards for mail centers. At a minimum, the agency mail security plan must address the following topics:
(a) Risk assessment;
(b) A plan to protect staff and all other occupants of agency facilities from hazards that might be delivered in the mail;
(c) Operating procedures;
(d) A plan to provide a visible mail screening operation;
(e) Training mail center personnel;
(f) Testing and rehearsing responses to various emergency situations by agency personnel;
(g) Managing threats;
(h) Communications plan;
(i) Occupant Emergency Plan;
(j) Continuity of Operations Plan; and
(k) Annual reviews of the agency's security plan.

# Reporting Requirements
§ 102-192.85
Who must report to GSA annually?
Large agencies, as defined in § 102-192.35, must provide an annual Mail Management Report to GSA. If your agency is a cabinet level or independent agency, the agency mail manager must compile all offices or components and submit one report for the department or agency as a whole, for example, the U.S. Department of Defense or the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
§ 102-192.90
What must we include in our annual mail management report to GSA?
You must provide an agency-wide response to the GSA requested data elements. GSA will provide the list of data elements in a Federal Management Regulation (FMR) Bulletin. GSA coordinates all mail management related FMR bulletins with the Federal Mail Executive Council and updates them as necessary. FMR bulletins are available at:
http://www.gsa.gov/bulletins.
§ 102-192.95
Why does GSA require annual mail management reports?
GSA requires annual agency mail management reports to—
(a) Ensure that Federal agencies have the policies, procedures, and data to manage their mail operations efficiently and effectively;
(b) Ensure that appropriate security measures are in place; and
(c) Allow GSA to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Records Act, especially with regard to sharing best practices, information on training, and promulgating standards, procedures, and guidelines.
§ 102-192.100
How do we submit our annual mail management report to GSA?
You must submit annual reports using the GSA web based Simplified Mail Accountability Reporting Tool (
SMART
). Training is available from GSA to agency mail managers and other authorized users on how to use the SMART data reporting system. Contact the Office of Government-wide Policy, Mail Management Policy office for access and training at
federal.mail@gsa.gov.
§ 102-192.105
When must we submit our annual mail management report to GSA?
Beginning with FY 2015, the agency's annual mail management report is due on December 1, following the end of the fiscal year.
[80 FR 57103, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Performance Measurement Requirements for All Agencies
§ 102-192.110
At what levels in our agency must we have performance measures?
You must have performance measures for mail operations at the agency level and in all mail facilities and program levels.
§ 102-192.115
Why must we use performance measures?
Performance measures gauge the success of your mail management plans and processes by comparing performance over time and among organizations. Performance measures—
(a) Define goals and objectives;
(b) Enhance resource allocation; and
(c) Provide accountability.

# Agency Mail Manager Requirements
§ 102-192.120
Must we have an agency mail manager?
Yes, every agency as defined in § 102-192.35, must have an agency mail manager.
§ 102-192.125
What is the appropriate managerial level for an agency mail manager?
The agency mail manager should be at a managerial level that enables him or her to speak for the agency on mail management as outlined in this part.
§ 102-192.130
What are your general responsibilities as an agency mail manager?
In addition to carrying out the responsibilities discussed above, you should—
(a) Establish written policies and procedures to provide timely and cost effective dispatch and delivery of mail and materials;
(b) Ensure agency-wide awareness and compliance with standards and operational procedures established by all service providers used by the agency;
(c) Set policies for expedited mail, mass mailings, mailing lists, and couriers;
(d) Implement cost savings through:
(1) Consolidating and presorting wherever practical, for example, internal and external mail, and consolidation of agency-wide mail operations and official mail facilities; and
(2) Reducing the volume of agency to agency mail whenever possible.
(e) Develop and direct agency programs and plans for proper and cost effective use of transportation, equipment, and supplies used for mail;
(f) Ensure that all facility and program level mail personnel receive appropriate training and certifications to successfully perform their assigned duties;
(g) Promote professional certification for mail managers and mail center employees;
(h) Ensure that expedited mail service providers are used only when authorized by the Private Express Statutes, 39 U.S.C. 601-606;
(i) Establish written policies and procedures to minimize incoming and outgoing personal mail;
(j) Provide guidance to agency representatives who develop correspondence or design mailing materials including Business Reply Mail, letterhead, and mail piece design;
(k) Represent the agency in its relations with service providers, other agency mail managers, and GSA's Office of Government-wide Policy;
(l) Ensure agency policy incorporates Federal hazardous materials requirements set forth in 49 CFR parts 100-185;
(m) Ensure agency sustainable activities become part of the mail program by incorporating strategies in accordance with
Executive Order 13514
of October 5, 2009, “Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance”. Section 8 describes the Agency Strategic Sustainability Performance Plan; and
(n) Ensure safety and security requirements specified in §§ 102-192.70 through 102-192.80 are fulfilled.

# Subpart C—GSA's Responsibilities and Services
§ 102-192.135
What are GSA's responsibilities in mail management?
44 U.S.C. 2904(b) directs the Administrator of General Services to provide guidance and assistance to Federal agencies to ensure economical and efficient records management. 44 U.S.C. 2901(2) and (4)(C) define the processing of mail by Federal agencies as part of records management. In carrying out its responsibilities under the Act, GSA is required to—
(a) Develop standards, procedures, and guidelines;
(b) Conduct research to improve practices and programs;
(c) Collect and disseminate information on training programs, technological developments, etc;
(d) Establish one or more interagency committees (such as the Federal Mail Executive Council, and the Interagency Mail Policy Council) as necessary to provide an exchange of information among Federal agencies;
(e) Conduct studies, inspections, or surveys;
(f) Promote economy and efficiency in the selection and utilization of space, staff, equipment, and supplies; and
(g) In the event of an emergency, at the request of DHS, cooperate with DHS in communicating with agencies about mail related issues.
§ 102-192.140
What types of support does GSA offer to Federal agency mail management programs?
(a) GSA supports Federal agency mail management programs by—
(1) Assisting in the development of agency policy and guidance in mail management and mail operations;
(2) Identifying best business practices and sharing them with Federal agencies;
(3) Developing and providing access to a Government-wide management information system for mail;
(4) Helping agencies develop performance measures and management information systems for mail;
(5) Maintaining a current list of agency mail managers;
(6) Establishing, developing, and maintaining interagency mail committees;
(7) Maintaining liaison with the USPS and other service providers at the national level;
(8) Maintaining a publically accessible Web site for mail communications policy; and
(9) Serving as a point of contact for all Federal agencies on mail issues.
(b) For further information contact: U.S. General Services Administration, Office of Government-wide Policy (MA), 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20504; telephone 202-501-1777, or email:
Federal.mail@gsa.gov.
Pt. 102-193

# PART 102-193—CREATION, MAINTENANCE, AND USE OF RECORDS
Sec.
102-193.5
What does this part cover?
102-193.10
What are the goals of the Federal Records Management Program?
102-193.15
What are the records management responsibilities of the Administrator of General Services (the Administrator), the Archivist of the United States (the Archivist), and the heads of Federal agencies?
102-193.20
What are the specific agency responsibilities for records management?
102-193.25
What type of records management business process improvements should my agency strive to achieve?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
66 FR 48358, Sept. 20, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-193.5
What does this part cover?
This part prescribes policies and procedures related to the General Service Administration's (GSA) role to provide guidance on economic and effective records management for the creation, maintenance and use of Federal agencies' records. The National Archives and Records Administration Act of 1984 (the Act) (44 U.S.C. chapter 29) amended the records management statutes to divide records management responsibilities between GSA and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Under the Act, GSA is responsible for economy and efficiency in records management and NARA is responsible for adequate documentation and records disposition. GSA regulations are codified in this part and NARA regulations are codified in 36 CFR chapter XII. The policies and procedures of this part apply to all records, regardless of medium (e.g., paper or electronic), unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-193.10
What are the goals of the Federal Records Management Program?
The statutory goals of the Federal Records Management Program are:
(a) Accurate and complete documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government.
(b) Control of the quantity and quality of records produced by the Federal Government.
(c) Establishment and maintenance of management controls that prevent the creation of unnecessary records and promote effective and economical agency operations.
(d) Simplification of the activities, systems, and processes of records creation, maintenance, and use.
(e) Judicious preservation and disposal of records.
(f) Direction of continuing attention on records from initial creation to final disposition, with particular emphasis on the prevention of unnecessary Federal paperwork.
§ 102-193.15
What are the records management responsibilities of the Administrator of General Services (the Administrator), the Archivist of the United States (the Archivist), and the Heads of Federal agencies?
(a) The Administrator of General Services (the Administrator) provides guidance and assistance to Federal agencies to ensure economical and effective records management. Records management policies and guidance established by GSA are contained in this part and in parts 102-194 and 102-195 of this chapter, records management handbooks, and other publications issued by GSA.
(b) The Archivist of the United States (the Archivist) provides guidance and assistance to Federal agencies to ensure adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government and to ensure proper records disposition. Records management policies and guidance established by the Archivist are contained in 36 CFR chapter XII and in bulletins and handbooks issued by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).
(c) The Heads of Federal agencies must comply with the policies and guidance provided by the Administrator and the Archivist.
§ 102-193.20
What are the specific agency responsibilities for records management?
You must follow both GSA regulations in this part and NARA regulations in 36 CFR chapter XII to carry out your records management responsibilities. To meet the requirements of this part, you must take the following actions to establish and maintain the agency's records management program:
(a) Assign specific responsibility to develop and implement agencywide records management programs to an office of the agency and to a qualified records manager.
(b) Follow the guidance contained in GSA handbooks and bulletins and comply with NARA regulations in 36 CFR chapter XII when establishing and implementing agency records management programs.
(c) Issue a directive establishing program objectives, responsibilities, authorities, standards, guidelines, and instructions for a records management program.
(d) Apply appropriate records management practices to all records, irrespective of the medium (e.g., paper, electronic, or other).
(e) Control the creation, maintenance, and use of agency records and the collection and dissemination of information to ensure that the agency:
(1) Does not accumulate unnecessary records while ensuring compliance with NARA regulations for adequate and proper documentation and records disposition in 36 CFR parts 1220 and 1228.
(2) Does not create forms and reports that collect information inefficiently or unnecessarily.
(3) Reviews all existing forms and reports (both those originated by the agency and those responded to by the agency but originated by another agency or branch of Government) periodically to determine if they can be improved or canceled.
(4) Maintains records economically and in a way that allows them to be retrieved quickly and reliably.
(5) Keeps mailing and copying costs to a minimum.
(f) Establish standard stationery formats and styles.
(g) Establish standards for correspondence to use in official agency communications, and necessary copies required, and their distribution and purpose.
§ 102-193.25
What type of records management business process improvements should my agency strive to achieve?
Your agency should strive to:
(a) Improve the quality, tone, clarity, and responsiveness of correspondence;
(b) Design forms that are easy to fill-in, read, transmit, process, and retrieve, and reduce forms reproduction costs;
(c) Provide agency managers with the means to convey written instructions to users and document agency policies and procedures through effective directives management;
(d) Provide agency personnel with the information needed in the right place, at the right time, and in a useful format;
(e) Eliminate unnecessary reports and design necessary reports for ease of use;
(f) Provide rapid handling and accurate delivery of mail at minimum cost; and
(g) Organize agency files in a logical order so that needed records can be found rapidly to conduct agency business, to ensure that records are complete, and to facilitate the identification and retention of permanent records and the prompt disposal of temporary records. Retention and disposal of records is governed by NARA regulations in 36 CFR chapter XII.
Pt. 102-194

# PART 102-194—STANDARD AND OPTIONAL FORMS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
102-194.5
What is the Standard and Optional Forms Management Program?
102-194.10
What is a Standard form?
102-194.15
What is an Optional form?
102-194.20
What is an electronic Standard or Optional form?
102-194.25
What is an automated Standard or Optional format?
102-194.30
What role does my agency play in the Standard and Optional Forms Management Program?
102-194.35
Should I create electronic Standard or Optional forms?
102-194.40
For what Standard or Optional forms should an electronic version not be made available?
102-194.45
Who should I contact about Standard and Optional forms?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
66 FR 48358, Sept. 20, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-194.5
What is the Standard and Optional Forms Management Program?
The Standard and Optional Forms Management Program is a Governmentwide program that promotes economies and efficiencies through the development, maintenance and use of common forms. The General Services Administration (GSA) provides additional guidance on the Standard and Optional Forms Management Program through an external handbook called
Standard and Optional Forms Procedural Handbook. You may obtain a copy of the handbook from:
Standard and Optional Forms Management Office General Services Administration (Forms-XR)
1800 F Street, NW.; Room 7126
Washington, DC 20405-0002
(202) 501-0581
http://www.gsa.gov/forms
§ 102-194.10
What is a Standard form?
A Standard form is a fixed or sequential order of data elements, prescribed by a Federal agency through regulation, approved by GSA for mandatory use, and assigned a Standard form number. This criterion is the same whether the form resides on paper or purely electronic.
§ 102-194.15
What is an Optional form?
An Optional form is approved by GSA for nonmandatory Governmentwide use and is used by two or more agencies. This criteria is the same whether the form resides on paper or purely electronic.
§ 102-194.20
What is an electronic Standard or Optional form?
An electronic Standard or Optional form is an officially prescribed set of data residing in an electronic medium that is used to produce a mirror-like image or as near to a mirror-like image as the creation software will allow of the officially prescribed form.
§ 102-194.25
What is an automated Standard or Optional format?
An automated Standard or Optional format is an electronic version of the officially prescribed form containing the same data elements and used for the electronic transaction of information in lieu of using a Standard or Optional form.
§ 102-194.30
What role does my agency play in the Standard and Optional Forms Management Program?
Your agency head or designee's role is to:
(a) Designate an agency-level Standard and Optional Forms Liaison representative and alternate, and notify GSA, in writing, of their names, titles, mailing addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers, and e-mail addresses within 30 days of the designation or redesignation.
(b) Promulgate Governmentwide Standard forms under the agency's statutory or regulatory authority in the
Federal Register,
and issue procedures on the mandatory use, revision, or cancellation of these forms.
(c) Ensure that the agency complies with the provisions of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) (Public Law 105-277, 112 Stat 2681), Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 74d), as amended, the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) Standards (36 CFR part 1194), and OMB implementing guidance. In particular, agencies should allow the submission of Standard and Optional forms in an electronic/automated version unless the form is specifically exempted by § 102-194.40.
(d) Issue Governmentwide Optional forms when needed by two or more agencies and announce the availability, revision, or cancellation of these forms. Forms prescribed through a regulation for use by the Federal Government must be issued as a Standard form.
(e) Obtain GSA approval for each new, revised or canceled Standard and Optional form, 60 days prior to planned implementation. Certify that the forms comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Provide an electronic form unless exempted by § 102-194.40. Revised forms not approved by GSA will result in cancellation of the form.
(f) Provide GSA with both an electronic (unless exempted by § 102-194.40) and paper version of the official image of the Standard or Optional form prior to implementation.
(g) Obtain the prescribing agency's approval for exceptions to Standard and Optional forms, including electronic forms or automated formats prior to implementation.
(h) Review annually agency prescribed Standard and Optional forms, including exceptions, for improvement, consolidation, cancellation, or possible automation. The review must include approved electronic versions of the forms.
(i) Coordinate all health-care related Standard and Optional forms through GSA for the approval of the Interagency Committee on Medical Records (ICMR).
(j) Promote the use of electronic forms within the agency by following what the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) prescribes and all guidance issued by the Office of Management and Budget and other responsible agencies. This guidance will promote the use of electronic transactions and electronic signatures.
(k) Notify GSA of the replacement of any Standard or Optional form by an automated format or electronic form, and its impact on the need to stock the paper form. GSA's approval is not necessary for this change, but a one-time notification should be made.
(l) Follow the specific instructions in the Standard and Optional Forms Procedural Handbook.
§ 102-194.35
Should I create electronic Standard or Optional forms?
Yes, you should create electronic Standard or Optional forms, especially when forms are used to collect information from the public. GSA will not approve a new or revision to a Standard or Optional form unless an electronic form is being made available. Only forms covered by § 102-194.40 are exempt from this requirement. Furthermore, you should to the extent possible, use electronic form products and services that are based on open standards. However, the use of proprietary products is permitted, provided that the end user is not required to purchase a specific product or subscription to use the electronic Standard or Optional form.
§ 102-194.40
For what Standard or Optional forms should an electronic version not be made available?
All forms should include an electronic version unless it is not practicable to do so. Areas where it may not be practicable include where the form has construction features for specialized use (e.g., labels), to prevent unauthorized use or could otherwise risk a security violation, (e.g., classification cover sheets), or require unusual production costs (e.g., specialized paper or envelopes). Such forms can be made available as an electronic form only if the originating agency approves an exception to do so. (See the Standard and Optional Forms Procedural Handbook for procedures and a list of these forms).
§ 102-194.45
Who should I contact about Standard and Optional forms?
For Standard and Optional forms, you should contact the:
Standard and Optional Forms Management Office General Services Administration (Forms-XR)
1800 F Street, NW.; Room 7126
Washington, DC 20405-0002
(202) 501-0581
PART 102-196—FEDERAL FACILITY RIDESHARING [RESERVED]
PARTS 102-197—102-199 [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTERS H-Z [RESERVED]
CHAPTERS 103-104 [RESERVED]
41 CFR Ch. 105 (7-1-25 Edition)
General Services Administration

# CHAPTER 105—GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
Part
Page
105-1
Introduction
419
105-8
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by General Services Administration
421
105-50
Provision of special or technical services to State and local units of government
432
105-51
Uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition for Federal and federally assisted programs
437
105-53
Statement of organization and functions
437
105-54
Advisory committee management
444
105-55
Collection of claims owed the United States
455
105-56
Salary offset for indebtedness of Federal employees to the United States
472
105-57
Administration wage garnishment
487
105-60
Public availability of agency records and informational materials
493
105-62
Document security and declassification
512
105-64
GSA Privacy Act rules
517
105-67
Sale of personal property
526
105-68
Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement)
527
105-69
New restrictions on lobbying
549
105-70
Implementation of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
561
105-71
Uniform administrative requirements for grants and cooperative agreements with State and local governments
576
105-72
Uniform administrative requirements for grants and agreements with institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations
603
105-74
Governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
630
Pt. 105-1

# PART 105-1—INTRODUCTION
Sec.
105-1.000-50
Scope of part.

# Subpart 105-1.1—Regulations System
105-1.100
Scope of subpart.
105-1.101
General Services Administration Property Management Regulations.
105-1.101-50
Exclusions.
105-1.102
Relationship of GSPMR to FPMR.
105-1.104
Publication of GSPMR.
105-1.106
Applicability.
105-1.109
Numbering.
105-1.109-50
General plan.
105-1.109-51
Arrangement.
105-1.109-52
Cross-references.
105-1.110
Deviation.
105-1.150
Citation.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
39 FR 25231, July 9, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-1.000-50
Scope of part.
This part describes the method by which the General Services Administration (GSA) implements and supplements the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) and implements certain regulations prescribed by other agencies. It contains procedures that implement and supplement part 101-1 of the FPMR.

# Subpart 105-1.1—Regulations System
§ 105-1.100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart establishes the General Services Administration Property Management Regulations (GSPMR) and provides certain introductory material.
§ 105-1.101
General Services Administration Property Management Regulations.
The General Services Administration Property Management Regulations (GSPMR) include the GSA property management policies and procedures which, together with the Federal Property Management Regulations, certain regulations prescribed by other agencies, and various GSA orders govern the management of property and records and certain related activities of GSA. They may contain policies and procedures of interest to other agencies and the general public and are prescribed by the Administrator of General Services in this chapter 105.
§ 105-1.101-50
Exclusions.
(a) Certain GSA property management and related policies and procedures which come within the scope of this chapter 105 nevertheless may be excluded therefrom when there is justification. These exclusions may include the following categories:
(1) Subject matter that bears a security classification;
(2) Policies and procedures that are expected to be effective for a period of less than 6 months;
(3) Policies and procedures that are effective on an experimental basis for a reasonable period;
(4) Policies and procedures pertaining to other functions of GSA as well as property management functions and there is need to make the issuance available simultaneously to all GSA employees involved; and
(5) Where speed of issuance is essential, numerous changes are required in chapter 105, and all necessary changes cannot be made promptly.
(b) Property management policies and procedures issued in other than the FPMR system format under paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section, shall be codified into chapter 105 at the earliest practicable date, but in any event not later than 6 months from date of issuance.
§ 105-1.102
Relationship of GSPMR to FPMR.
(a) GSPMR implement and supplement the FPMR and implement certain other regulations. They are part of the General Services Administration Regulations System. Material published in the FPMR (which has Governmentwide applicability) becomes effective throughout GSA upon the effective date of the particular FPMR material. In general, the FPMR that are implemented and supplemented shall not be repeated, paraphrased, or otherwise restated in chapter 105.
(b) Implementing is the process of expanding upon the FPMR or other Government-wide regulations.
Supplementing is the process of prescribing material for which there is no counterpart in the Government-wide regulations.
(c) GSPMR may deviate from the regulations that are implemented when a deviation (see § 105-1.110) is authorized in and explicitly referenced to such regulations. Where chapter 105 contains no material implementing the FPMR, the FPMR shall govern.
§ 105-1.104
Publication of GSPMR.
(a) Most GSPMR are published in the
Federal Register.
This practice helps to ensure that interested business concerns, other agencies, and the public are apprised of GSA policies and procedures pertaining to property and records management and certain related activities.
(b) Most GSPMR are published in cumulative form in chapter 105 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The
Federal Register
and title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
§ 105-1.106
Applicability.
Chapter 105 applies to the management of property and records and to certain other programs and activities of GSA. Unless otherwise specified, chapter 105 applies to activities outside as well as within the United States.
§ 105-1.109
Numbering.
§ 105-1.109-50
General plan.
Chapter 105 is divided into parts, subparts, and further subdivisions as necessary.
§ 105-1.109-51
Arrangement.
(a) Parts 105-2 through 105-49 are used for GSPMR that implement regulations in the corresponding parts of chapter 101. This practice results in comparable grouping by subject area without establishment of subchapters.
(b) Parts 105-50 and above are used for GSPMR that supplement regulations in the FPMR and implement regulations of other agencies. Part numbers are assigned so as to accomplish a similar subject area grouping. Regulations on advisory committee management are recodified as part 105-54 to place them in the appropriate subject area category. Regulations on standards of conduct remain in part 105-735 because the number 735 identifies regulations of the U.S. Civil Service Commission and various civil agencies on this subject.
§ 105-1.109-52
Cross-references.
(a) Within chapter 105, cross-references to the FPMR shall be made in the same manner as used within the FPMR. Illustrations of cross-references to the FPMR are:
(1) Part 101-3;
(2) Subpart 101-3.1;
(3) § 101-3.413-5.
(b) Within chapter 105, cross-references to parts, subparts, sections, and subsections of chapter 105 shall be made in a manner generally similar to that used in making cross-references to the FPMR. For example, this paragraph would be referenced as § 105-1.109-52(b).
§ 105-1.110
Deviation.
(a) In the interest of establishing and maintaining uniformity to the greatest extent feasible, deviations; i.e., the use of any policy or procedure in any manner that is inconsistent with a policy or procedure prescribed in the Federal Property Management Regulations, are prohibited unless such deviations have been requested from and approved by the Administrator of General Services or his authorized designee. Deviations may be authorized by the Administrator of General Services or his authorized designee when so doing will be in the best interest of the Government. Request for deviations shall clearly state the nature of the deviation and the reasons for such special action.
(b) Requests for deviations from the FPMR shall be sent to the General Services Administration for consideration in accordance with the following:
(1) For onetime (individual) deviations, requests shall be sent to the address provided in the applicable regulation. Lacking such direction, requests shall be sent to the Administrator of General Services, Washington, DC 20405.
(2) For class deviations, requests shall be sent to only the Administrator of General Services.
[55 FR 1673, Jan. 18, 1990]
§ 105-1.150
Citation.
(a) In formal documents, such as legal briefs, citations of chapter 105 material shall include a citation to title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations or other titles as appropriate; e.g., 41 CFR 105-1.150.
(b) Any section of chapter 105, for purpose of brevity, may be informally identified as “GSPMR” followed by the section number. For example, this paragraph would be identified as “GSPMR 105-1.150(b).”
Pt. 105-8

# PART 105-8—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
Sec.
105-8.101
Purpose.
105-8.102
Application.
105-8.103
Definitions.
105-8.104—105-8.109
[Reserved]
105-8.110
Self-evaluation.
105-8.111
Notice.
105-8.112—105-8.129
[Reserved]
105-8.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
105-8.131—105-8.139
[Reserved]
105-8.140
Employment.
105-8.141—105-8.147
[Reserved]
105-8.148
Consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
105-8.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
105-8.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
105-8.150-1
General.
105-8.150-2
Methods.
105-8.150-3
Time period for compliance.
105-8.150-4
Transition plan.
105-8.151
rogram accessibility: New construction and alterations.
105-8.152
Program accessibility: Assignment of space.
105-8.153
Program accessibility: Interagency cooperation.
105-8.153-1
General.
105-8.153-2
Requests from occupant agencies.
105-8.154
Program accessibility: Exceptions.
105-8.155—105-8.159
[Reserved]
105-8.160
Communications.
105-8.161—105-8.169
[Reserved]
105-8.170
Compliance procedures.
105-8.170-1
Applicability.
105-8.170-2
Employment complaints.
105-8.170-3
Responsible Official.
105-8.170-4
Filing a complaint.
105-8.170-5
Notification to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
105-8.170-6
Acceptance of complaint.
105-8.170-7
Investigation/conciliation.
105-8.170-8
Letter of findings.
105-8.170-9
Filing an appeal.
105-8.170-10
Acceptance of appeals.
105-8.170-11
Hearing.
105-8.170-12
Decision.
105-8.170-13
Delegation.
105-8.171
Complaints against an occupant agency.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
56 FR 9871, Mar. 8, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-8.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 105-8.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 105-8.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Agency
means the General Services Administration (GSA), except when the context indicates otherwise.
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in and enjoy the benefits of programs or activities conducted by GSA. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailed materials, audio
recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation program
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “Physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (a) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Official or Responsible Official
means the Director of the Civil Rights Division of the General Services Administration or his or her designee.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to any agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation
in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(3)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 105-8.140.
Respondent
means the organizational unit in which a complainant alleges that discrimination occurred.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955); and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810); the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 (Pub. L. 100-259, 102 Stat. 28); and Handicapped Program Technical Amendments Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-630, 102 Stat. 3312). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by the agency and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration of historic properties.
§§ 105-8.104—105-8.109
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by March 9, 1992, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A list of interested persons consulted;
(2) A description of the areas examined and any problems identified and;
(3) A description of any modifications made or to be made.
§ 105-8.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the Administrator finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.
§§ 105-8.112—105-8.129
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to
provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licenses or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by part.
(b) The exclusion of persons without handicaps from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(c) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 105-8.131—105-8.139
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 105-8.141—105-8.147
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.148
Consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
GSA shall consult with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (ATBCB) in carrying out its responsibilities under this part concerning architectural barriers in facilities that are subject to GSA control. GSA shall also consult with the ATBCB in providing technical assistance to other Federal agencies with respect to overcoming architectural barriers in facilities. The agency's Public Buildings Service shall implement this section.
§ 105-8.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in §§ 105-8.150 and 105-8.154, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because
the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 105-8.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
§ 105-8.150-1
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This section does not—
(a) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps; or
(b) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property.
§ 105-8.150-2
Methods.
(a)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of § 105-8.150 through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(b)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 105-8.105-1 in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to a historic property is not required because of § 105-8.105-1(b) or § 105-8.154 alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(1) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of a historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(2) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(3) Adopting other innovative methods.
§ 105-8.150-3
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under § 105-8.150 by May 7, 1991; except where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by March 8, 1994, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
§ 105-8.150-4
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by March 9, 1992; the transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(a) Identify physical obstacles in the facilities occupied by GSA that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(b) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(c) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with § 105-8.150 and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(d) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 105-8.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, of for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§ 105-8.152
Program accessibility: Assignment of space.
(a) When GSA assigns or reassigns space to an agency, it shall consult with the agency to ensure that the assignment or reassignment will not result in one or more of the agency's programs or activities being inaccessible to individuals with handicaps.
(b) Prior to the assignment or reassignment of space to an agency, GSA shall inform the agency of the accessibility, and/or the absence of accessibility features, of the space in which GSA intends to locate the agency. If the agency informs GSA that the use of the space will result in one or more of the agency's programs being inaccessible, GSA shall take one or more of the following actions to make the programs accessible:
(1) Arrange for alterations, improvements, and repairs to buildings and facilities;
(2) Locate and provide alternative space that will not result in one or more of the agency's programs being inaccessible; or
(3) Take any other actions that result in making this agency's programs accessible.
The responsibility for payment to make the physical changes in the space shall be assigned on a case-by-case basis as agreed to by GSA and the user agency, dependent on individual circumstances.
(c) GSA may not require the agency to accept space that results in one or more of the agency's programs being inaccessible.
§ 105-8.153
Program accessibility: Interagency cooperation.
§ 105-8.153-1
General.
GSA, upon request from an occupant agency engaged in the development of a transition plan under section 504, shall participate with the occupant agency in the development and implementation of the transition plan and shall provide information and guidance to the occupant agency. Upon request, GSA shall conduct space inspections to assist the agency in determining whether a current assignment of space results in one or more of the occupant agency's programs or activities being inaccessible. GSA shall provide the occupant agency with a written summary of significant findings and recommendations, together with data concerning programmed repairs and alterations planned by GSA and alterations that can be effected by the agency.
§ 105-8.153-2
Requests from occupant agencies.
(a) Upon receipt of an occupant agency's request for new space, additional space, relocation to accessible space, alterations, or other actions under GSA's control that are needed to ensure program accessibility in the requesting agency's program(s) as required by the agency's section 504 transition plan, GSA shall assist or advise the requesting agency in providing or arranging for the requested action within the timeframes specified in the requesting agency's transition plan.
(b) If the requested action cannot be completed within the time frame specified in an agency's transition plan, GSA shall so advise the requesting agency within 30 days of the request by submitting, after consultation with the agency, a revised schedule specifying the date by which the action shall be
completed. If the delay in completing the action results in or continues the inaccessibility of the requesting agency's program, GSA and the agency shall, after consultation, take interim measures to make the agency's program accessible.
(c) If GSA determines that it is unable to take the requested action, GSA shall—
(1) Within 30 days, set forth in writing to the requesting agency the reasons for denying the agency's request, and
(2) Within 90 days, propose to the requesting agency other methods for making the agency's program accessible.
(d) Receipt of a copy of an occupant agency's transition plan under section 504 shall constitute notice to GSA of the requested actions in the transition plan and of the times frames which the actions are required to be completed.
§ 105-8.154
Program accessibility: Exceptions.
Sections 105-8.150, 105-8.152, and 105-8.153 do not require GSA to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where GSA personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Administrator or his or her designee after considering all resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 105-8.155—105-8.159
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 150.8.160 would result in such alteration or burdens.
The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Administrator or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with § 105-8.160 would result in such an alteration or such burdnes, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 105-8.161—105-8.169
[Reserved]
§ 105-8.170
Compliance procedures.
§ 105-8.170-1
Applicability.
Except as provided in § 105-8.170-2, §§ 105-8.170 through 105-8.170-13 apply to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 105-8.170-2
Employment complaints.
The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
§ 105-8.170-3
Responsible Official.
The Responsible Official shall coordinate implementation of §§ 105-8.170 through 105-8.170-13.
§ 105-8.170-4
Filing a complaint.
(a)
Who may file a complaint.
Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by him or herself or by his or her authorized representative file a complaint with the Official. Any persons who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint with the Official.
(b)
Confidentiality.
The Official shall hold in confidence the identity of any person submitting a complaint, unless the person submits written authorization otherwise, and except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or proceeding under this part.
(c)
When to file.
Complaints shall be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Official may extend this time limit for good cause shown. For purposes of determining when a complaint is timely filed under this section, a complaint mailed to the agency shall be deemed filed on the date it is postmarked. Any other complaint shall be deemed filed on the date it is recevied by the agency.
(d)
How to file.
Complaints may be delivered or mailed to the Administrator, the Responsible Official, or other agency officials. Complaints should be sent to the Director of Civil Rights, Civil Rights Division (AKC), General Services Administration, 18th and F Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20405. If any agency official other than the Official receives a complaint, he or she shall forward the complaint to the Official immediately.
§ 105-8.170-5
Notification to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The agency shall prepare and forward comprehensive quarterly reports to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board containing information regarding complaints received alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency shall not include in the report the identity of any complainant.
§ 105-8.170-6
Acceptance of complaint.
(a) The Official shall accept a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with § 105-8.170-4 and over which the agency has jurisdiction. The Official shall notify the complainant and
the respondent of receipt and acceptance of the complaint.
(b) If the Official receives a complaint that is not complete, he or she shall notify the complainant within 30 days of receipt of the incomplete complaint that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint within 30 days of receipt of this notice, the Official shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(c) The Official may reject a complaint, or a position thereof, for any of the following reasons:
(1) It was not filed timely and the extension of the 180-day period as provided in § 105-8.170-4(c) is denied;
(2) It consists of an allegation identical to an allegation contained in a previous complaint filed on behalf of the same complainant(s) which is pending in the agency or which has been resolved or decided by the agency; or
(3) It is not within the purview of this part.
(d) If the Official receives a complaint over which the agency does not have jurisdiction, the Official shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
§ 105-8.170-7
Investigation/conciliation.
(a) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the Official shall complete the investigation of the complaint, attempt informal resolution, and if no informal resolution is achieved, issue a letter of findings. The 180-day time limit may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the practices and policies that led to the filing of the complaint, and other circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred.
(b) The Official may require agency employees to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required by the Official to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.
(c) The Official shall furnish the complainant and the respondent a copy of the investigative report promptly after receiving it from the investigator and provide the complainant and the respondent with an opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint.
(d) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the complainant and respondent. The agreement shall be made part of the complaint file with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant and the respondent. The written agreement may include a finding on the issue of discrimination and shall describe any corrective action to which the complainant and the respondent have agreed.
(e) The written agreement shall remain in effect until all corrective actions to which the complainant and the respondent have agreed upon have been completed. The complainant may reopen the complaint in the event that the agreement is not carried out.
§ 105-8.170-8
Letter of findings.
If an informal resolution of the complaint is not reached, the Official shall, within 180 days of receipt of the complete complaint, notify the complainant and the respondent of the results of the investigation in a letter sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The letter shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
(a) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(b) A description of a remedy for each violation found;
(c) A notice of the right of the complainant and the respondent to appeal to the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights; and
(d) A notice of the right of the complainant and the respondent to request a hearing.
§ 105-8.170-9
Filing an appeal.
(a) Notice of appeal to the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights, with or without a request for hearing, shall be filed by the complainant or the
respondent with the Responsible Official within 30 days of receipt of the letter of findings required by
§ 105-8.170-7.
(b) If a timely appeal without a request for hearing is filed by a party, any other party may file a written request for a hearing within the time limit specified in § 105-8.170-9(a) or within 10 days of the date on which the first timely appeal without a request for hearing was filed, whichever is later.
(c) If no party requests a hearing, the Responsible Official shall promptly transmit the notice of appeal and investigative record to the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights.
(d) If neither party files an appeal within the time prescribed in § 105-8.170-9(a) the Responsible Official shall certify, at the expiration of the time, that the letter of findings is the final agency decision on the complaint.
§ 105-8.170-10
Acceptance of appeals.
The Special Counsel shall accept and process any timely appeal. A party may appeal to the Deputy Administrator from a decision of the Special Counsel that an appeal is untimely. This appeal shall be filed within 15 days of receipt of the decision from the Special Counsel.
§ 105-8.170-11
Hearing.
(a) Upon a timely request for a hearing, the Special Counsel shall take the necessary action to obtain the services of an Administrative law judge (ALJ) to conduct the hearing. The ALJ shall issue a notice to all parties specifying the date, time, and place of the scheduled hearing. The hearing shall be commenced no earlier than 15 days after the notice is issued and no later than 60 days after the request for a hearing is filed, unless all parties agree to a different date, or there are other extenuating circumstances.
(b) The complainant and respondent shall be parties to the hearing. Any interested person or organization may petition to become a party or amicus curiae. The ALJ may, in his or her discretion, grant such a petition if, in his or her opinion, the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings and the participation will not unduly delay the outcome and may contribute materially to the proper disposition of the proceedings.
(c) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act). The ALJ shall have the duty to conduct a fair hearing, to take all necessary action to avoid delay, and to maintain order. He or she shall have all powers necessary to these ends, including (but not limited to) the power to—
(1) Arrange and change the date, time, and place of hearings and prehearing conferences and issue notices thereof;
(2) Hold conferences to settle, simplify, or determine the issue in a hearing, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the hearing;
(3) Require parties to state their position in writing with respect to the various issues in the hearing and to exchange such statements with all other parties;
(4) Examine witnesses and direct witnesses to testify;
(5) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(6) Rule on procedural items pending before him or her; and
(7) Take any action permitted to the ALJ as authorized by this part, or by the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551-559).
(d) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to § 105-8.170-11, but rules or principles designed to assure production of credible evidence available and to subject testimony to cross-examination shall be applied by the ALJ whenever reasonably necessary. The ALJ may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record.
(e) The costs and expenses for the conduct of a hearing shall be allocated as follows:
(1) Persons employed by the agency shall, upon request to the agency by the ALJ, be made available to participate in the hearing and shall be on official duty status for this purpose. They shall not receive witness fees.
(2) Employees of other Federal agencies called to testify at a hearing shall, at the request of the ALJ and with the approval of the employing agency, be on official duty status during any period of absence from normal duties caused by their testimony, and shall not receive witness fees.
(3) The fees and expenses of other persons called to testify at a hearing shall be paid by the party requesting their appearance.
(4) The ALJ may require the agency to pay travel expenses necessary for the complainant to attend the hearing.
(5) The respondent shall pay the required expenses and charges for the ALJ and court reporter.
(6) All other expenses shall be paid by the party, the intervening party, or amicus curiae incurring them.
(f) The ALJ shall submit in writing recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law, and remedies to all parties and the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights within 30 days after receipt of the hearing transcripts, or within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing if no transcript is made. This time limit may be extended with the permission of the Special Counsel.
(g) Within 15 days after receipt of the recommended decision of the ALJ any party may file exceptions to the decision with the Speical Counsel. Thereafter, each party will have ten days to file reply exceptions with the Special Counsel.
§ 105-8.170-12
Decision.
(a) The Special Counsel shall make the decision of the agency based on information in the investigative record and, if a hearing is held, on the hearing record. The decision shall be made within 60 days of receipt of the transmittal of the notice of appeal and investitive record pursuant to § 105-8.170-9(c) or after the period for filing exceptions ends, which ever is applicable. If the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights determines that he or she needs additional information from any party, he or she shall request the information and provide the other party or parties an opportunity to respond to that information. The Special Counsel shall have 60 days from receipt of the additional information to render the decision on the appeal. The Special Counsel shall transmit his or her decision by letter to the parties. The time limits established in this paragraph may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General. The decision shall set forth the findings, remedial action required, and reasons for the decision. If the decision is based on a hearing record, the Special Counsel shall consider the recommended decision of the ALJ and render a final decision based on the entire record. The Special Counsel may also remand the hearing record to the ALJ for a fuller development of the record.
(b) Any respondent required to take action under the terms of the decision of the agency shall do so promptly. The Official may require periodic compliance reports specifying—
(1) The manner in which compliance with the provisions of the decision has been achieved;
(2) The reasons any action required by the final decision has not yet been taken; and
(3) The steps being taken to ensure full compliance. The Official may retain responsibility for resolving disagreements that arise between the parties over interpretation fo the final agency decision or for specific adjudicatory decisions arising out of implementation.
§ 105-8.170-13
Delegation.
The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
§ 105-8.171
Complaints against an occupant agency.
(a) Upon notification by an occupant agency that it has received a complete complaint alleging that the agency's
program is inaccessible because existing facilities under GSA's control are not accessible and usable by individuals with handicaps, GSA shall be jointly responsible with the agency for resolving the complaint and shall participate in making findings of fact and conclusions of law in prescribing and implementing appropriate remedies for each violation found.
(b) GSA shall make reasonable efforts to follow the time frames for complaint resolution that go into effect under the notifying occupant agency's compliance procedures when it receives a complete complaint.
(c) Receipt of a copy of the complete complaint by GSA shall constitute notification to GSA for purposes of § 105-8.171(a).
Pt. 105-50

# PART 105-50—PROVISION OF SPECIAL OR TECHNICAL SERVICES TO STATE AND LOCAL UNITS OF GOVERNMENT
Sec.
105-50.000
Scope of part.
105-50.001
Definitions.
105-50.001-1
State.
105-50.001-2
Political subdivision or local government.
105-50.001-3
Unit of general local government.
105-50.001-4
Special-purpose unit of local government.
105-50.001-5
Specialized or technical services.
105-50.001-6
GSA.

# Subpart 105-50.1—General Provisions
105-50.101
Purpose.
105-50.102
Applicability.
105-50.103
Policy.
105-50.104
Limitations.
105-50.105
Coordination of requests.
105-50.106
GSA response to requests.

# Subpart 105-50.2—Services Available From General Services Administration
105-50.201
Agencywide mission.
105-50.202
Specific services.
105-50.202-1
Copies of statistical or other studies.
105-50.202-2
Preparation of or assistance in the conduct of statistical or other studies.
105-50.202-3
Training.
105-50.202-4
Technical assistance incident to Federal surplus personal property.
105-50.202-5
Data processing services.
105-50.202-6
Communications services.
105-50.202-7
Technical information and advice.

# Subpart 105-50.3—Principles Governing Reimbursements to GSA
105-50.301
Established fees.
105-50.302
Special fee schedules.
105-50.303
Cost basis in lieu of fees.
105-50.304
Services provided through revolving funds.
105-50.304a
Deposits.
105-50.305
Exemptions.

# Subpart 105-50.4—Reports
105-50.401
Reports submitted to the Congress.
105-50.402
Reports submitted to the Office of Management and Budget.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 486(c) and sec. 302, 82 Stat. 1102; 42 U.S.C. 4222.

# Source:
41 FR 21451, May 26, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-50.000
Scope of part.
This part prescribes rules and procedures governing the provision of special or technical services to State and local units of government by GSA. This part also prescribes principles governing reimbursements for such services.
§ 105-50.001
Definitions.
The following definitions are established for terms used in this part.
§ 105-50.001-1
State.
State
means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State, but does not include the governments of the political subdivisions of the State.
§ 105-50.001-2
Political subdivision or local government.
Political subdivision
or
local government
means a local unit of government, including specifically a county, municipality, city, town, township, or a school or other special district created by or pursuant to State law.
§ 105-50.001-3
Unit of general local government.
Unit of general local government
means any city, county, town, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State.
§ 105-50.001-4
Special-purpose unit of local government.
Special-purpose unit of local government
means any special district, public-purpose corporation, or other strictly limited-purpose political subdivision of a State, but shall not include a school district.
§ 105-50.001-5
Specialized or technical services.
Specialized or technical services
means statistical and other studies and compilations, development projects, technical tests and evaluations, technical information, training activities, surveys, reports, documents, and any other similar service functions which any department or agency of the executive branch of the Federal Government is especially equipped and authorized by law to perform.
§ 105-50.001-6
GSA.
GSA
means the General Services Administration.

# Subpart 105-50.1—General Provisions
§ 105-50.101
Purpose.
(a) This part 105-50 implements the provisions of Title III of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1102, 42 U.S.C. 4221-4225), the purpose of which is stated as follows:
It is the purpose of this title to encourage intergovernmental cooperation in the conduct of specialized or technical services and provision of facilities essential to the administration of State or local governmental activities, many of which are nationwide in scope and financed in part by Federal funds; to enable state and local governments to avoid unnecessary duplication of special service functions; and to authorize all departments and agencies of the executive branch of the Federal Government which do not have such authority to provide reimbursable specialized or technical services to State and local governments.
(b) This part is consistent with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Director, Office of Management and Budget, in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-97, dated August 29, 1969, issued pursuant to section 302 of the cited Act (42 U.S.C. 4222).
§ 105-50.102
Applicability.
This part is applicable to all organizational elements of GSA insofar as the services authorized to be performed in subpart 105-50.2 fall within their designated functional areas.
§ 105-50.103
Policy.
It is the policy of GSA to cooperate to the maximum extent possible with State and local units of government in providing the specialized or technical services authorized within the limitations set forth in § 105-50.104.
§ 105-50.104
Limitations.
The specialized or technical services provided under this part may be provided, in the discretion of the Administrator of General Services, only under the following conditions:
(a) Such services will be provided only to the States, political subdivisions thereof, and combinations or associations of such governments or their agencies and instrumentalities.
(b) Such services will be provided only upon the written request of a State or political subdivision thereof. Requests normally will be made by the chief executives of such entities and will be addressed to the General Services Administration as provided in § 105-50.105.
(c) Such services will not be provided unless GSA is providing similar services for its own use under the policies set forth in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 Revised, dated August 30, 1967, subject: Policies for acquiring commercial or industrial products and services for Government use. In addition, in accordance with the policies set forth in Circular No. A-76, the requesting entity must certify that such services cannot be procured reasonably and expeditiously through ordinary business channels.
(d) Such services will not be provided if they require any additions of staff or
involve outlays for additional equipment or other facilities solely for the purpose of providing such services, except where the costs thereof are charged to the user of such services. Further, no staff additions may be made which impede the implementation of, or adherence to, the employment ceilings contained in the Office of Management and Budget allowance letters.
(e) Such services will be provided only upon payment or provision for reimbursement by the unit of government making the request of salaries and all other identifiable direct and indirect costs of performing such services. For cost determination purposes, GSA will be guided by the policies set forth in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-25, dated September 23, 1959, subject: User charges.
§ 105-50.105
Coordination of requests.
(a) All inquiries of a general nature concerning services GSA can provide shall be addressed to the General Services Administration (BR), Washington, DC 20405. The Director of Management Services, Office of Administration, shall serve as the central coordinator for such inquiries and shall assign them to the appropriate organizational element of GSA for expeditious handling.
(b) Requests for specific services may be addressed directly to Heads of Services and Staff Offices and to Regional Administrators. Section 105-50.202 describes the specific services GSA can provide.
(c) If the proper GSA organizational element is not known to the State or local unit of government, the request shall be addressed as in paragraph (a) of this section to ensure appropriate handling.
§ 105-50.106
GSA response to requests.
(a) Direct response to each request shall be made by the Head of the applicable Service or Staff Office or Regional Administrator. He shall outline the service to be provided and the fee or reimbursement required. Any special conditions concerning time and priority, etc., shall be stated. Written acceptance by the authorized State or local governmental entity shall constitute a binding agreement.
(b) Heads of Services and Staff Offices and Regional Administrators shall maintain complete records and controls of services provided on a calendar year basis to facilitate accurate, annual reporting, as required in § 105-50.401.

# Subpart 105-50.2—Services Available From General Services Administration
§ 105-50.201
Agencywide mission.
(a) In its role as a central property management agency, GSA constructs, leases, operates, and maintains office and other space: procures and distributes supplies; coordinates and provides for the economic and efficient purchase, lease, sharing, and maintenance of automatic data processing equipment by Federal agencies; manages stockpiles of materials maintained for use in national emergencies; transfers excess real and personal property among Federal agencies for further use; disposes of surplus real and personal property, by donation or otherwise, as well as materials excess to stockpile requirements; operates centralized data processing centers and telecommunications and motor pool systems; operates the National Archives and Presidential libraries; and provides a variety of records management services, including the operation of centers for storing and administering records, as well as other common services.
(b) Special or technical services may be provided by many organizational elements of GSA with respect to their functional areas, but the requesting State or local agency needs only to know that the service desired is related to one or more of the functional areas described above and direct its request as provided for under § 105-50.105. State and local units of government are also encouraged to consult the “Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance” as a more complete guide to the many other Federal assistance programs available to them. The catalog, issued annually and updated periodically by the Office of Management and Budget, is available through the Superintendent of
Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
§ 105-50.202
Specific services.
Within the functional areas identified in § 105-50.201, GSA can provide the services hereinafter described.
§ 105-50.202-1
Copies of statistical or other studies.
This material includes a copy of any existing statistical or other studies and compilations, results of technical tests and evaluations, technical information, surveys, reports, and documents, and any such materials which may be developed or prepared in the future to meet the needs of the Federal Government or to carry out normal program responsibilities of GSA.
§ 105-50.202-2
Preparation of or assistance in the conduct of statistical or other studies.
(a) This service includes preparation of statistical or other studies and compilations, technical tests and evaluations, technical information, surveys, reports, and documents and assistance in the conduct of such activities and in the preparation of such materials, provided they are of a type similar to those which GSA is authorized by law to conduct or prepare and when resources are available.
(b) Specific areas in which GSA can conduct or participate in the conduct of studies include:
(1) Space management, including assignment and utilization;
(2) Supply management, including laboratory tests and evaluations;
(3) Management of motor vehicles;
(4) Archives and records management;
(5) Automatic data processing systems; and
(6) Telecommunications and teleprocessing systems and services.
§ 105-50.202-3
Training.
(a) This training consists of the type which GSA is authorized by law to conduct for Federal personnel and others or which is similar to such training.
(b) Descriptions of the specific training courses conducted by GSA are published annually in the Interagency Training Programs bulletin, copies of which are available from the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C. 20415.
§ 105-50.202-4
Technical assistance incident to Federal surplus personal property.
Technical assistance will be provided in the screening and selection of surplus personal property under existing laws, provided such aid primarily strengthens the ability of the recipient in developing its own capacity to prepare proposals.
§ 105-50.202-5
Data processing services.
GSA will develop ADP logistical feasibility studies, software, systems analyses, and programs. To the extent that data processing capabilities are available, GSA will also assist in securing data processing services on a temporary, short term basis from other Federal facilities or Federal Data Processing Centers.
§ 105-50.202-6
Communications services.
GSA will continue to make its bulk rate circuit ordering services available for use by State and local governments. Under a revised tariff effective December 12, 1971, GSA will bill the State and local governments for their share of the TEL PAK costs. Services provided prior to December 12, 1971, will be billed by the contractors under the former arrangements. In addition, certain activities, such as surplus property agencies which have frequent communications with Federal agencies, will be given access to the Federal Telecommunications System switchboards.
§ 105-50.202-7
Technical information and advice.
GSA will provide technical information, personnel management systems services, and technical advice on improving logistical and management services which GSA normally provides for itself or others under existing authorities.

# Subpart 105-50.3—Principles Governing Reimbursements to GSA
§ 105-50.301
Established fees.
Where there is an established schedule of fees for services to other Government agencies or the public, the schedule shall be used as the basis for reimbursement for like services furnished to State and local governments.
§ 105-50.302
Special fee schedules.
Where there is no established schedule of fees for types of service which are ordinarily reimbursed on a fee basis, such schedules may be developed and promulgated in conjunction with the Office of Administration. The fees so established shall cover all direct costs, such as salaries of personnel involved plus personnel benefits, travel, and other related expenses and all indirect costs such as management, supervisory, and staff support expenses determined or estimated from the best available records in GSA. Periodically, fees shall be reviewed for adequacy of recovery and adjusted as necessary.
§ 105-50.303
Cost basis in lieu of fees.
Where the cost of services is to be recovered on other than a fee basis, upon receipt of a request from a State or local government for such services, a written reply shall be prepared by the service or staff office receiving the request stating the basis for reimbursement for the services to be performed. The proposal shall be based on an estimate of all direct costs, such as salaries of personnel involved plus personnel benefits, travel, and other related expenses and on such indirect costs as management, supervisory, and staff support expenses. An appropriate surcharge may be developed to recover these indirect costs. The terms thereof shall be concurred in by the Director of Administration. Acceptance in writing by the requester shall constitute a binding agreement between GSA and the requesting governmental unit.
§ 105-50.304
Services provided through revolving funds.
Where the service furnished is of the type which GSA is now billing through revolving funds, reimbursement shall be obtained from State and local governments on the same basis; i.e., the same pricing method, billing forms, and billing support shall be used.
§ 105-50.304a
Deposits.
Reimbursements to GSA for furnishing special or technical services to State and local units of government will be deposited to the credit of the appropriation from which the cost of providing such services has been paid or is to be charged if such reimbursements are authorized. Otherwise, the reimbursements will be credited to miscellaneous receipts in the U.S. Treasury (42 U.S.C. 4223).
§ 105-50.305
Exemptions.
(a) Single copies of existing reports covering studies and statistical compilations and other data or publications for which there is no established schedule of fees shall be furnished without charge unless significant expense is incurred in reproducing the material, in which instance the actual cost thereof shall be charged.
(b) GSA may, pursuant to section 302 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4742), admit employees of State and local units of government to training programs established for professional, administrative, or technical personnel and may waive the requirement for reimbursement in whole or in part.

# Subpart 105-50.4—Reports
§ 105-50.401
Reports submitted to the Congress.
(a) The Administrator of General Services will furnish annually to the respective Committees on Government Operations of the Senate and the House of Representatives a summary report on the scope of the services provided under Title III of the act and this part.
(b) Heads of Services and Staff Offices and all Regional Administrators shall furnish the Director of Management Services, OAD, by no later than January 15 of each year, the following information concerning services provided during the preceding calendar year to State and local units of government:
(1) A brief description of the services provided, including any other pertinent data;
(2) The State and/or local unit of government involved; and
(3) The cost of GSA to provide the service, including the amount of reimbursement, if any, made by the benefitting government.
(c) Reports Control Symbol LAW-27-OA is assigned to this report.
§ 105-50.402
Reports submitted to the Office of Management and Budget.
Copies of the foregoing reports will be submitted by the Administrator to the Office of Management and Budget not later than March 30 of each year.
Pt. 105-51

# PART 105-51—UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS

# Authority:
Sec. 213, Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894 (42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256 (42 U.S.C. 4601 note).
§ 105-51.001
Uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition.
Regulations and procedures for complying with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894, 42 U.S.C. 4601), as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 (Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-255, 42 U.S.C. 4601 note) are set forth in 49 CFR part 24.
[52 FR 48024, Dec. 17, 1987; 54 FR 8913, Mar. 2, 1989]
Pt. 105-53

# PART 105-53—STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
105-53.100
Purpose.

# Subpart A—General
105-53.110
Creation and authority.
105-53.112
General statement of functions.
105-53.114
General statement of organization.
105-53.116
General regulations.
105-53.118
Locations of material available for public inspection.
105-53.120
Address and telephone numbers.

# Subpart B—Central Offices
105-53.130
Office of the Administrator.
105-53.130-1
[Reserved]
105-53.130-2
Office of Ethics and Civil Rights.
105-53.130-3
Office of the Executive Secretariat.
105-53.130-4
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.
105-53.131
Office of Inspector General.
105-53.132
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals.
105-53.133
Information Security Oversight Office.
105-53.134
Office of Administration.
105-53.135
[Reserved]
105-53.136
Office of Congressional Affairs
105-53.137
Office of Acquisition Policy.
105-53.138
Office of General Counsel.
105-53.139
Office of the Comptroller.
105-53.140
Office of Operations and Industry Relations.
105-53.141
Office of Policy Analysis.
105-53.142
Office of Public Affairs.
105-53.143
Information Resources Management Service.
105-53.144
Federal Property Resources Service.
105-53.145
Federal Supply Service.
105-53.146
[Reserved]
105-53.147
Public Buildings Service.

# Subpart C—Regional Offices
105-53.150
Organization and functions.
105-53.151
Geographic composition, addresses, and telephone numbers.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1), Pub. L. 90-23, 81 Stat. 54 sec. (a)(1); 40 U.S.C. 486(c), Pub. L. 81-152, 63 Stat. 390, sec. 205(c).

# Source:
48 FR 25200, June 6, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-53.100
Purpose.
This part is published in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 and is a general description of the General Services Administration.

# Subpart A—General
§ 105-53.110
Creation and authority.
The General Services Administration was established by section 101 of the Federal Property and Administrative
Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), effective July 1, 1949. The act consolidated and transferred to the agency a variety of real and personal property and related functions fomerly assigned to various agencies. Subsequent laws and Executive orders assigned other related functions and programs.
§ 105-53.112
General statement of functions.
The General Services Administration, as a major policy maker, provides guidance and direction to Federal agencies in a number of management fields. GSA formulates and prescribes a variety of Governmentwide policies relating to procurement and contracting; real and personal property management; transportation, public transportation, public utilities and telecommunications management; automated data processing management; records management; the use and disposal of property; and the information security program. In addition to its policy role, GSA also provides a variety of basic services in the aforementioned areas to other Government agencies. A summary description of these services is presented by organizational component in subpart B.
[54 FR 26741, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.114
General statement of organization.
The General Services Administration is an independent agency in the executive branch of the Government. The work of the agency as a whole is directed by the Administrator of General Services, who is assisted by the Deputy Administrator. A summary description of each of GSA's major functions and organizational components is presented in subparts B and C.
§ 105-53.116
General regulations.
Regulations of the General Services Administration and its components are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations in title 1, chapters I and II; title 32, chapter XX; title 41, chapters 1, 5, 101, 105, and 201; and title 48, chapters 1 and 5. Titles 1, 32, 41, and 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations are available for review at most legal and depository libraries and at the General Services Administration Central Office and regional offices. Copies may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
[49 FR 24995, June 19, 1984]
§ 105-53.118
Locations of material available for public inspection.
GSA maintains reading rooms containing materials available for public inspection and copying at the following locations:
(a) General Services Administration, 18th
F Streets, NW., Library (Room 1033), Washington, DC 20405. Telephone 202-535-7788.
(b) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 10 Causeway Street, Boston, MA 02222. Telephone: 617-565-8100.
(c) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 26 Federal Plaza, NY, NY 10278. Telephone: 212-264-1234.
(d) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, Seventh
D Streets, SW., Room 1050, Washington, DC 20407. Telephone: 202-472-1804.
(e) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, Ninth
Market Streets, Room 5151, Philadelphia, PA 19107. Telephone: 215-597-9613.
(f) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, Richard B. Russell Federal Building, U.S. Courthouse, 75 Spring Street, SW., Atlanta, GA 30303, Telephone: 404/331-5103.
(g) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604. Telephone: 312-353-5383.
(h) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 1500 East Bannister Road, Kansas City, MO 64131. Telephone: 816-926-7203.
(i) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 819 Taylor Street, Fort Worth, TX 76102. Telephone: 817-334-3284.
(j) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: 303-236-7408.
(k) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 525 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94105. Telephone: 415-974-9000.
(l) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, 300 North Los
Angeles Street, Room 3259, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Telephone: 213-688-3210.
(m) Business Service Center, General Services Administration, GSA Center, Auburn, WA 98001. Telephone: 206-931-7957.
[48 FR 25200, June 6, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 24995, June 19, 1984; 50 FR 26363, June 26, 1985; 51 FR 23229, June 26, 1986; 52 FR 23657, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 23761, June 24, 1988]
§ 105-53.120
Address and telephone numbers.
The Office of the Administrator; Office of Civil Rights; Office of Citizen Services and Innovative Technologies; Office of the Chief Information Officer; Office of Emergency Response and Recovery; Office of the Chief Financial Officer; Chief Administrative Services Officer; Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs; Office of Small Business Utilization; Office of General Counsel; Office of the Chief People Officer; Office of Communications and Marketing; Office of Governmentwide Policy; Public Buildings Service and the Office of Inspector General are located at 18th and F Streets NW., Washington, DC 20405. The Federal Acquisition Service is located at 2200 Crystal Drive Room 1000, Arlington, VA 22202-3713; however, the mailing address is Washington, DC 20406. The telephone number for the above addresses is 202-472-1082. The Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA) is located at 1800 M Street NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036; however, the CBCA mailing address is 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405. The CBCA telephone number is 202-606-8800. The addresses of the eleven regional offices are provided in § 105-53.151.
[78 FR 29246, May 20, 2013]

# Subpart B—Central Offices
§ 105-53.130
Office of the Administrator.
The Administrator of General Services, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, directs the execution of all programs assigned to the General Services Administration. The Deputy Administrator, who is appointed by the Administrator, assists in directing agency programs and coordinating activities related to the functions of the General Services Administration.
§ 105-53.130-1
[Reserved]
§ 105-53.130-2
Office of Ethics and Civil Rights.
The Office of Ethics and Civil Rights, headed by the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights, is responsible for developing, directing, and monitoring the agency's programs governing employee standards of ethical conduct, equal employment opportunity, and civil rights. It is the focal point for the agency's implementation of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978. The principal statutes covering the Civil Rights Program are Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Educational Amendments Act of 1972, sections 501 and 504 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1975, and the Equal Pay Act.
[53 FR 23761, June 24, 1988]
§ 105-53.130-3
Office of the Executive Secretariat.
The Office of the Executive Secretariat, headed by the Director of the Executive Secretariat, is responsible for policy coordination, correspondence control, and various administrative tasks in support of the Administrator and Deputy Administrator.
§ 105-53.130-4
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.
(a)
Creation and authority.
Public Law 95-507, October 14, 1978, an amendment to the Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, established in each Federal agency having procurement authority the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. Each office is headed by a Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. The Director is appointed by the head of the agency or department.
(b)
Functions.
The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization is responsible for the implementation and execution of the functions and duties under Sections 8 and 15 of the Small Business Act to include the
issuance of policy direction and guidance. The office provides information, assistance, and counseling to business concerns, including small businesses, small socially and economically disadvantaged persons, women-owned businesses, labor surplus area concerns, and workshops operated by the blind and other severely handicapped persons. The office also conducts outreach, liaison, source listings, and seminars for small and disadvantaged businesses and coordinates and promotes procurement programs and policies.
§ 105-53.131
Office of Inspector General.
(a)
Creation and authority.
Public Law 95-452, known as the Inspector General Act of 1978, consolidated existing audit and investigation functions and established an Office of Inspector General in 11 major domestic departments and agencies, including GSA. Each office is headed by an Inspector General appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(b)
Functions.
The Office of Inspector General is responsible for policy direction and conduct of audit, inspection, and investigation activities relating to programs and operations of GSA; and maintaining liaison with other law enforcement agencies, the Department of Justice, and United States Attorneys on all matters relating to the detection and prevention of fraud and abuse. The Inspector General reports semiannually to the Congress through the Administrator concerning fraud, abuses, other serious problems, and deficiencies of agency programs and operations; recommends corrective action; and reports on progress made in implementing these actions.
§ 105-53.132
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, headed by the Chairman, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, was established on January 6, 2007, pursuant to section 847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, Pub. L. 109-163, 119 Stat. 3391.
(b)
Functions.
The CBCA hears, considers, and decides contract disputes between Government contractors and Executive agencies (other than the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of the Army, the U.S. Department of the Navy, the U.S. Department of the Air Force, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the U.S. Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, and the Tennessee Valley Authority) under the provisions of the Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. 7101-7109, and regulations and rules issued thereunder. The Board also conducts other proceedings as required or permitted under statutes or regulations. Such other proceedings include the resolution of disputes involving grants and contracts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 25 U.S.C. 450,
et seq.;
the resolution of disputes between insurance companies and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Risk Management Agency (RMA) involving actions of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) pursuant to the Federal Crop Insurance Act, 7 U.S.C. 1501,
et seq.;
requests by carriers or freight forwarders to review actions taken by the Audit Division of the U.S. General Services Administration's Office of Transportation and Property Management pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726(i)(1); claims by Federal civilian employees against the United States for reimbursement of expenses incurred while on official temporary duty travel, and expenses incurred in connection with relocation to a new duty station pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3702; and requests of agency disbursing or certifying officials, or agency heads, on questions involving payment of travel or relocation expenses pursuant to section 204 of the U.S. General Accounting Office Act of 1996, Public Law 104-316.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to CBCA programs are published in 48 CFR Chapter 61. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[78 FR 29246, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-53.133
Information Security Oversight Office.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO), headed by the Director of
ISOO, who is appointed by the Administrator with the approval of the President, was established by the Administrator on November 20, 1978, under the provisions of Executive Order 12065. Effective August 1, 1982, this authority is based upon Executive Order 12356, which superseded E.O. 12065.
(b)
Functions.
ISOO oversees and ensures, under the general policy direction of the National Security Council, Government-wide implementation of the information security program established by Executive order.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to ISOO Programs are published in 32 CFR chapter XX, part 2000
et seq.
§ 105-53.134
Office of Administration.
The Office of Administration, headed by the Associate Administrator for Administration, participates in the executive leadership of the agency; providing advice on the formulation of major policies and procedures, particularly those of a critical or controversial nature, to the Administrator and Deputy Administrator. The Office plans and administers programs in organization, productivity improvement, position management, training, staffing, position classification and pay administration, employee relations, workers' compensation, career development, GSA internal security, reporting requirements, regulations, internal directives, records correspondence procedures, Privacy and Freedom of Information Acts, printing and duplicating, mail, telecommunications, graphic design, cooperative administrative support, and support for congressional field offices. The office also serves as the central point of control for audit and inspection reports from the Inspector General and the Comptroller General of the United States; and manages the GSA internal controls evaluation, improvement, and reporting program. In addition, the office includes a secretariat to oversee Federal advisory committees.
[54 FR 26741, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.135
[Reserved]
§ 105-53.136
Office of Congressional Affairs.
The Office of Congressional Affairs, headed by the Associate Administrator for Congressional Affairs, is responsible for directing and coordinating the legislative and congressional activities of GSA.
[54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.137
Office of Acquisition Policy.
(a)
Functions.
The Office of Acquisition Policy (OAP), headed by the Associate Administrator for Acquisition Policy, serves as the single focal point for GSA acquisition and contracting matters and is responsible for ensuring that the GSA procurement process is executed in compliance with all appropriate public laws and regulations and is based on sound business judgment. Also, OAP exercises Governmentwide acquisition responsibilities through its participation with the Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the development and publication of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to OAP programs are published in 48 CFR chapter 1, Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and in 48 CFR chapter 5, General Services Acquisition Regulation (GSAR). Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[52 FR 23657, June 24, 1987]
§ 105-53.138
Office of General Counsel.
Functions.
The Office of General Counsel (OGC), headed by the General Counsel, is responsible for providing all legal services to the services, programs offices, staff offices, and regions of GSA with the exception of certain legal activities of the Office of Inspector General and legal activities of the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals; drafts legislation proposed by GSA;
furnishes legal advice required in connection with reports on legislation proposed by other agencies; provides liaison on legal matters with other Federal agencies; coordinates with the Department of Justice in litigation matters; and reviews and gives advice on matters of contract policy and contract operations.
[48 FR 25200, June 6, 1983, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-53.139
Office of the Comptroller.
(a)
Functions.
The Office of the Comptroller, headed by the Comptroller, is responsible for centralized agencywide budget and accounting functions; overall allocation and administrative control of agencywide resources and financial management programs; planning, developing, and directing GSA's executive management information system; and overseeing implementation of OMB Circular A-76 agencywide.
(b)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to the Office of the Comptroller's programs are published in 41 CFR part 101-2. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[51 FR 23230, June 26, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 23762, June 24, 1988; 54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.140
Office of Operations and Industry Relations.
The Office of Operations and Industry Relations, headed by the Associate Administrator for Operations and Industry Relations, is responsible for formulating GSA-wide policy that relates to regional operations, supervising GSA's Regional Administrators, and planning and coordinating GSA business and industry relations and customer liaison activities.
[54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.141
Office of Policy Analysis.
The Office of Policy Analysis, headed by the Associate Administrator for Policy Analysis, is responsible for providing analytical support, independent, objective information concerning management policies and programs, and technical and analytical assistance in the areas of policy analysis and resource allocation to the Administrator, senior officials, and organizations in GSA.
[51 FR 23230, June 26, 1986]
§ 105-53.142
Office of Public Affairs.
The Office of Public Affairs, headed by the Associate Administrator for Public Affairs, is responsible for the planning, implementation, and coordination of GSA public information and public events and employee communication activities, and managing and operating the Consumer Information Center.
[51 FR 23230, June 26, 1986]
§ 105-53.143
Information Resources Management Service.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Information Resources Management Service (IRMS), headed by the Commissioner, Information Resources Management Service, was established as the Office of Information Resources Management on August 17, 1982 and subsequently redesignated as IRMS on November 17, 1985, by the Administrator of General Services. The Information Resources Management Service was assigned responsibility for administering the Governmentwide information resources management program, including records management, and procurement, management, and use of automatic data processing and telecommunications resources.
(b)
Functions.
IRMS is responsible for directing and managing Governmentwide programs for the procurement and use of automatic data processing (ADP), office information systems, and telecommunications equipment and services; developing and coordinating Governmentwide plans, policies, procedures, regulations, and publications pertaining to ADP; telecommunications and records management activities; managing and operating the Information Technology Fund; managing and operating the Federal Telecommunications System (FTS); planning and directing programs for improving Federal records and information management practices Governmentwide; managing and operating the
Federal Information Centers; developing and overseeing GSA policy concerning automated information systems, equipment, and facilities; and providing policy and program direction for the GSA Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Support Programs.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to IRMS programs are published in 41 CFR chapter 201, Federal Information Resources Management Regulation (FIRMR), and 48 CFR chapters 1 and 5. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[51 FR 23230, June 26, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 23657, June 24, 1987]
§ 105-53.144
Federal Property Resources Service.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Federal Property Resources Service (FPRS), headed by the Commissioner, Federal Property Resources Service, was established on July 18, 1978, by the Administrator of General Services to carry out the utilization and disposal functions for real and related personal property.
(b)
Functions.
FPRS is responsible for utilization surveys of Federal real property holdings; the reuse of excess real property; and the disposal of surplus real property.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to FPRS programs are published in 41 CFR chapter 1, 41 CFR chapter 101, subchapter H, and 48 CFR chapter 1. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116
[54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.145
Federal Supply Service.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Federal Supply Service (FSS), headed by the Commissioner, FSS, was established on December 11, 1949, by the Administrator of General Services to supersede the Bureau of Federal Supply of the Department of the Treasury which was abolished by the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949. The Federal Supply Service has been known previously as the Office of Personal Property and the Office of Federal Supply and Services.
(b)
Functions.
FSS is responsible for determining supply requirements; procuring personal property and nonpersonal services; transferring excess (except ADP equipment) and donating and selling surplus personal property; managing GSA's Governmentwide transportation, traffic management, travel, fleet management, and employee relocation programs; auditing of transportation bills paid by the Government and subsequent settlement of claims; developing Federal standard purchase specifications and Commercial Item Descriptions; standardizing commodities purchased by the Federal Government; cataloging items of supply procured by civil agencies; and ensuring continuity of supply operations during defense emergency conditions.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to FSS programs are published in 41 CFR chapters 1 and 5; 41 CFR chapter 101, subchapters A, E, G, and H; and in 48 CFR chapters 1 and 5. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[49 FR 24996, June 19, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 23230, June 26, 1986]
§ 105-53.146
[Reserved]
§ 105-53.147
Public Buildings Service.
(a)
Creation and authority.
The Public Buildings Service (PBS), headed by the Commissioner, Public Buildings Service, was established on December 11, 1949, by the Administrator of General Services to supersede the Public Buildings Administration, which was abolished by the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949.
(b)
Functions.
PBS is responsible for the design, construction, management, maintenance, operation, alteration, extension, remodeling, preservation, repair, improvement, protection, and control of buildings, both federally owned and leased, in which are provided housing accommodations for Government activities; the acquisition, utilization, custody, and accountability for GSA real property and related personal property; representing the consumer interests of the Federal executive agencies before Federal and State rate regulatory commissions and providing procurement support and contracting for public utilities (except
telecommunications); the Safety and Environmental Management Program for GSA managed Government-owned and-leased facilities; providing for the protection and enhancement of the cultural environment for federally owned sites, structures, and objects of historical, architectural, or archaeological significance; ensuring that Federal work space is used more effectively and efficiently; providing leadership in the development and maintenance of needed property management information systems for the Government; and coordination of GSA activities towards improving the environment, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1959.
(c)
Regulations.
Regulations pertaining to PBS programs are published in 41 CFR chapter 1, 41 CFR chapter 101, subchapters D and H; and in 48 CFR chapter 1. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in § 105-53.116.
[48 FR 25200, June 6, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 24996, June 19, 1984; 52 FR 23658, June 24, 1987]

# Subpart C—Regional Offices
§ 105-53.150
Organization and functions.
Regional offices have been established in 11 cities throughout the United States. Each regional office is headed by a Regional Administrator who reports to the Associate Administrator for Operations and Industry Relations. The geographic composition of each region is shown in § 105-53.151.
[54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
§ 105-53.151
Geographic composition, addresses, and telephone numbers.

# Regional Offices—General Services Administration

# Region and Address
No. 1. (Comprising the States of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont); Boston FOB, 10 Causeway Street, Boston, MA 02222. Telephone: 617-565-5860.
No. 2. (Comprising the States of New Jersey and New York, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands); 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278. Telephone: 212-264-2600.
No. 3. (Comprising the States of Maryland, Virginia (except those jurisdictions within the National Capital Region boundaries), West Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Delaware); Ninth and Market Streets, Philadelphia, PA 19107. Telephone 215-597-1237.
No. 4. (Comprising the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee); 75 Spring Street, SW., Atlanta, GA 30303. Telephone: 404-331-3200.
No. 5. (Comprising the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin); 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604. Telephone: 312-353-5395.
No. 6. (Comprising the States of Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska); 1500 East Bannister Road, Kansas City, MO 64131. Telephone: 816-926-7201.
No. 7. (Comprising the States of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas); 819 Taylor Street, Fort Worth, TX 76102. Telephone: 817-334-2321.
No. 8. (Comprising the States of Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming); Building 41, Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: 303-236-7329.
No. 9. (Comprising Guam and the States of Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada); 525 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94105. Telephone : 415-974-9147.
No. 10. (Comprising the States of Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington); GSA Center, Auburn, WA 98001. Telephone: 206-931-7000.
National Capital Region. (Comprising the District of Columbia; Counties of Montgomery and Prince Georges in Maryland; and the City of Alexandria and the Counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William in Virginia); Seventh and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC 20407. Telephone: 202-472-1100.
[51 FR 23231, June 26, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 23658, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 23762, June 24, 1988; 54 FR 26742, June 26, 1989]
Pt. 105-54

# PART 105-54—ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
Sec.
105-54.000
Scope of part.

# Subpart 105-54.1—General Provisions
105-54.101
Applicability.
105-54.102
Definitions.
105-54.103
Policy.
105-54.104
Responsibilities.

# Subpart 105-54.2—Establishment of Advisory Committees
105-54.200
Scope of subpart.
105-54.201
Proposals for establishing advisory committees.
105-54.202
Review and approval of proposals.
105-54.203
Advisory committee charters.
105-54.203-1
Preparation of charters.
105-54.203-2
Active charters file.
105-54.203-3
Submission to Library of Congress.
105-54.204
Advisory committee membership.

# Subpart 105-54.3—Advisory Committee Procedures
105-54.300
Scope of subpart.
105-54.301
Meetings.
105-54.302
Committee records and reports.
105-54.303
Fiscal and administrative provisions.
105-54.304
Cost guidelines.
105-54.305
Renewal of advisory committees.
105-54.306
Amendment of advisory committee charters.
105-54.307
Termination of advisory committees.
105-54.308
Responsibilities of the Administrator.
105-54.309
Added responsibilities of service and staff office heads and regional administrators.
105-54.310
Advisory committee duties of the GSA Committee Management Officer.
105-54.311
Complaint procedures.

# Subpart 105-54.4—Reports
105-54.400
Scope of subpart.
105-54.401
Reports on GSA Federal Advisory Committees.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 92-463 dated October 6, 1972, as amended; and 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
53 FR 40224, Oct. 14, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-54.000
Scope of part.
This part sets forth policies and procedures in GSA regarding the establishment, operation, termination, and control of advisory committees for which GSA has responsibility. It implements the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92-463), which authorizes a system governing the establishment and operation of advisory committees in the executive branch of the Federal Government, and Executive Order 11686 of October 7, 1972, which directs the heads of all executive departments and agencies to take appropriate action to ensure their ability to comply with the provisions of the Act.

# Subpart 105-54.1—General Provisions
§ 105-54.101
Applicability.
This part 105-54 applies to all advisory committees for which GSA has responsibility. This part also applies to any committee that advises GSA officials even if the committee were not established for that purpose. This applicability, however, is limited to the period of the committee's use as an advisory body. This part does not apply to:
(a) An advisory committee exempted by an Act of Congress;
(b) A local civic group whose primary function is to render a public service in connection with a Federal program;
(c) A State or local committee, council, board, commission, or similar group established to advise or make recommendations to State or local officials or agencies;
(d) A meeting initiated by the President or one or more Federal official(s) for the purpose of obtaining advice or recommendations from one individual;
(e) A meeting with a group initiated by the President or one or more Federal official(s) for the sole purpose of exchanging facts or information;
(f) A meeting initiated by a group with the President or one or more Federal official(s) for the purpose of expressing the group's views, provided that the President or Federal official(s) does not use the group recurrently as a preferred source of advice or recommendations;
(g) A committee that is established to perform primarily operational as opposed to advisory functions. Operational functions are those specifically provided by law, such as making or implementing Government decisions or policy. An operational committee would be covered by the Act if it becomes primarily advisory in nature;
(h) A meeting initiated by a Federal official(s) with more than one individual for the purpose of obtaining the advice of individual attendees and not for the purpose of utilizing the group to obtain consensus advice or recommendations. However, such a group would be covered by the Act when an
agency accepts the group's deliberations as a source of consensus advice or recommendations;
(i) A meeting of two or more advisory committee or subcommittee members convened solely to gather information or conduct research for a chartered advisory committee, to analyze relevant issues and facts, or to draft proposed position papers for deliberation by the advisory committee or a subcommittee of the advisory committee; and
(j) A committee composed wholly of full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government.
§ 105-54.102
Definitions.
(a) The term “advisory committee” means any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task force, or other similar group or any subcommittee thereof that is:
(1) Established by statute,
(2) Established or utilized by the President, or
(3) Established or utilized by any agency official to obtain advice or recommendations that are within the scope of his/her responsibilies.
The term “advisory committee” excludes the Advisory Committee on Intergovernmental Relations and any committees composed wholly of full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government.
(b) “Presidential advisory committee” means any committee that advises the President. It may be established by the President or by the Congress, or may be used by the President to obtain advice or recommendations.
(c) “Independent Presidential advisory committee” means any Presidential advisory committee not assigned by the President, or the President's delegate, or by the Congress in law, to an agency for administrative and other support and for which the Administrator of General Services may provide administrative and other support on a reimbursable basis.
(d) “Committee member” means an individual who serves by appointment on a committee and has the full right and obligation to participate in the activities of the committee, including voting on committee recommendations.
(e) “Staff member” means any individual who serves in a support capacity to an advisory committee.
(f) “Secretariat” means the General Services Administration's Committee Management Secretariat. Established pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, it is responsible for all matters relating to advisory committees, and carries out the Administrator's responsibilities under the Act and Executive Order 12024.
(g) “Utilized” (or used), as stated in the definition of “advisory committee” above, refers to a situation in which a GSA official adopts a committee or other group composed in whole or in part of other than full-time Federal officers or employees with an established existence outside GSA as a preferred source from which to obtain advice or recommendations on a specific issue or policy within the scope of his/her responsibilities in the same manner as that official would obtain advice or recommendations from an established advisory committee.
§ 105-54.103
Policy.
The basic GSA policy on committee management is as follows:
(a) Advisory committees will be formed or used by GSA only when specifically authorized by law, or by the President, or specifically determined as a matter of formal record by the Administrator of General Services to be in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on GSA by law;
(b) Advisory committees will not be used to administer a function that is the assigned responsibility of a service or staff office;
(c) The assigned responsibility of a GSA official may not be delegated to any committee;
(d) No advisory committee may be used for functions that are not solely advisory unless specifically authorized by statute or Presidential directive. Making policy decisions and determining action to be taken with respect to any matter considered by an advisory committee is solely the responsibility of GSA; and
(e) In carrying out its responsibilities, GSA will consult with and obtain
the advice of interested groups substantially affected by its programs. The use of advisory committees for this purpose is considered to be in the public interest and necessary for the proper performance by GSA of its assigned functions.
§ 105-54.104
Responsibilities.
(a) Responsibility for coordination and control of committee management in GSA is vested in the Associate Administrator for Administration, who serves as the GSA Committee Management Officer (CMO). This Officer carries out the functions prescribed in section 8(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. In doing so, the Officer controls and supervises the establishment, procedures, and accomplishments of GSA-sponsored advisory committees. The Organization and Productivity Improvement Division, Office of Management Services, Office of Administration, provides staff resources and furnishes the Staff Contact Person (SCP) to the CMO.
(b) The Head of each Service and Staff Office and each Regional Administrator selects a Committee Management Officer (CMO) to coordinate and control committee management within the service, staff office, or regional office and to act as liaison to the GSA Committee Management Officer. The duties of the CMOs are as follows:
(1) Assemble and maintain the reports, records, and other papers of any GSA-sponsored committee during its existence (Arrangements may be made, however, for the Government chairperson or other GSA representative to retain custody of reports, records, and other papers to facilitate committee operations. After the committee is terminated, all committee records are disposed of following existing regulations.); and
(2) Under agency regulations in 41 CFR 105-60, carry out the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552 with respect to the reports, records, and other papers of GSA-sponsored advisory committees.

# Subpart 105-54.2—Establishment of Advisory Committees
§ 105-54.200
Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes the policy and procedures for establishing advisory committees within GSA.
§ 105-54.201
Proposals for establishing advisory committees.
(a) The Administrator approves the establishment of all GSA Federal Advisory Committees.
(b) When it is decided that it is necessary to establish a committee, the appropriate Head of the Service or Staff Office (HSSO) must consider the functions of similar committees in GSA to ensure that no duplication of effort will occur.
(c) The HSSO proposes the establishment of a Central Office or regional advisory committee within the scope of assigned program responsibilities. In doing so, the HSSO assures that advisory committees are established only if they are essential to the conduct of agency business. Advisory committees are established only if there is a compelling need for the committees, the committees have a truly balanced membership, and the committees conduct their business as openly as possible under the law and their mandate. Each proposal is submitted to the GSA Committee Management Officer for review and coordination and includes:
(1) A letter addressed to the Committee Management Secretariat signed by the HSSO with information copies for the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, the Associate Administrator for Congressional and Industry Relations, and the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights, describing the nature and purpose of the proposed advisory committee; why it is essential to agency business and in the public interest; why its functions cannot be performed by an existing committee of GSA, by GSA, or other means such as a public hearing; and the plans to ensure balanced membership;
(2) A notice for publication in the
Federal Register
containing the Administrator's certification that creation of the advisory committee is in the public interest and describing the
nature and purpose of the committee; and
(3) A draft charter for review by the Committee Management Secretariat.
(d) Subcommittees that do not function independently of the full or parent advisory committee need not follow the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. However, they are subject to all other requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
(e) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section apply to any subcommittee of a chartered committee, whether its members are drawn in whole or in part from the full or parent advisory committee, that functions independently of the parent advisory committee, such as by making recommendations directly to a GSA official rather than for consideration by the chartered advisory committee.
§ 105-54.202
Review and approval of proposals.
(a) The GSA Committee Management Officer reviews each proposal to make sure it conforms with GSA policies and procedures. The Officer sends the letter of justification, including the draft charter, to the Committee Management Secretariat. The Secretariat reviews the proposal and provides its views within 15 calendar days of receipt, if possible. The Administrator retains final authority for establishing a particular advisory committee.
(b) When the Secretariat notifies the Officer that establishing the committee conforms with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Officer obtains the Administrator's approval of the charter and the
Federal Register
notice. The Officer publishes the notice in the
Federal Register
at least 15 calendar days before the filing of the charter under § 105-54.203 with the standing committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives having legislative jurisdiction over GSA. The date of filing constitutes the date of establishment.
§ 105-54.203
Advisory committee charters.
No advisory committee may operate, meet, or take any action until the Administrator approves its charter and the Committee Management Officer sends a copy of it to the standing committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives having legislative jurisdiction over GSA.
§ 105-54.203-1
Preparation of charters.
Each committee charter contains the following information:
(a) The committee's official designation;
(b) The committee's objectives and the scope of its activities;
(c) The period of time necessary for the committee to carry out its purpose (if the committee is intended to function as a standing advisory committee, this should be made clear);
(d) The official to whom the committee reports, including the official's name, title, and organization;
(e) The agency and office responsible for providing the necessary support for the committee;
(f) A description of the duties for which the committee is responsible (if the duties are not solely advisory, the statutory or Presidential authority for additional duties shall be specified);
(g) The estimated annual operating costs in dollars and person-years for the committee;
(h) The estimated number and frequency of committee meetings;
(i) The committee's termination date, if it is less than 2 years from the date of its establishment; and
(j) The date the charter is filed. This date is inserted by the GSA Committee Management Officer after the Administrator approves the charter.
§ 105-54.203-2
Active charters file.
The GSA Committee Management Officer retains each original signed charter in a file of active charters.
§ 105-54.203-3
Submission to Library of Congress.
The GSA Committee Management Officer furnishes a copy of each charter to the Library of Congress when or shortly after copies are filed with the requisite committees of the Congress. Copies for the Library are addressed: Library of Congress, Exchange and Gift Division, Federal Documents Section, Federal Advisory Committee Desk, Washington, DC 20540.
§ 105-54.204
Advisory committee membership.
(a) Advisory committees that GSA establishes represent the points of view of the profession, industry, or other group to which it relates, taking into account the size, function, geographical location, affiliation, and other considerations affecting the character of a committee. To ensure balance, the agency considers for membership a cross-section of interested persons and groups with professional or personal qualifications or experience to contribute to the functions and tasks to be performed. This should be construed neither to limit the participation nor to compel the selection of any particular individual or group to obtain different points of view relevant to committee business. The Administrator designates members, alternates, and observers, as appropriate, of advisory committees. He/she designates a Federal officer or employee to chair or attend each meeting of each advisory committee. The Administrator also designates GSA employees to serve on advisory committees sponsored by other Government agencies. The HSSO or Regional Administrator submits nominations and letters of designation for the Administrator's signature to the GSA Committee Management Officer and to the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights for review and forwarding to the Administrator.
(b) Discrimination is prohibited on the basis of race, color, age, national origin, religion, sex, or mental and physical handicap in selecting advisory committee members.
(c) Nominees for membership must submit a Statement of Employment and Financial Interests (provided to the nominee by the HSSO or Regional Administrator) and may not be appointed until cleared by the Designated Agency Ethics Official.

# Subpart 105-54.3—Advisory Committee Procedures
§ 105-54.300
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the procedures that will be followed in the operation of advisory committees within GSA.
§ 105-54.301
Meetings.
(a) Each GSA advisory committee meeting is open to the public unless the Administrator decides otherwise;
(b) Each meeting is held at a reasonable time and in a place reasonably accessible to the public;
(c) The meeting room size is sufficient to accommodate committee members, committee or GSA staff, and interested members of the public;
(d) Any private citizen is permitted to file a written statement with the advisory committee;
(e) Any private citizen is permitted to speak at the advisory committee meeting, at the chairperson's discretion;
(f) All persons attending committee meetings at which classified information will be considered are required to have an adequate security clearance;
(g) The Designated Federal Officer (who may be either full time or permanent part-time) for each advisory committee and its subcommittees does the following:
(1) Approves or calls the meetings of the advisory committee;
(2) Approves the meeting agenda, which lists the matters to be considered at the meeting and indicates whether any part of the meeting will be closed to the public under the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)). Ordinarily, copies of the agenda are distributed to committee members before the date of the meeting;
(3) Attends all meetings (no part of a meeting may proceed in the Designated Federal Officer's absence);
(4) Adjourns the meeting when he or she determines that adjournment is in the public interest; and
(5) Chairs the meeting when asked to do so.
(h) The Committee Chairperson makes sure that detailed minutes of each meeting are kept and certifies to their accuracy. The minutes include:
(1) Time, date, and place;
(2) A list of the following persons who were present;
(i) Advisory committee members and staff;
(ii) Agency employees; and
(iii) Private citizens who presented oral or written statements;
(3) The estimated number of private citizens present;
(4) An accurate description of each matter discussed and the resolution of the matter, if any; and
(5) Copies of each report or other document the committee received, issued, or approved.
(i) The responsible HSSO or the Regional Administrator publishes at least 15 calendar days before the meeting a notice in the
Federal Register
that includes:
(1) The name of the advisory committee as chartered;
(2) The time, date, place, and purpose of the meeting;
(3) A summary of the agenda; and
(4) A statement whether all or part of the meeting is open to the public of closed; and if closed, the reasons why, and citing the specific exemptions of the Government is the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b) as the basis for closure;
(j) In exceptional circumstances and when approved by the General Counsel or designee, less than 15 calendar days notice may be given, provided the reasons for doing so are included in the committee meeting notice published in the
Federal Register
;
(k) Notices to be published in the
Federal Register
are submitted to the Federal Register Liaison Officer (CAID). At least five workdays are needed for printing of the notice;
(l) Meetings may also be announced by press release, direct mail, publication in trade and professional journals, or by notice to special interest and community groups affected by the Committee's deliberations. This procedure cannot be a substitute for
Federal Register
publication;
(m) The fact that a meeting may be closed to the public under the exemptions of the Government in the Sunshine Act does not relieve GSA of the requirement to publish a notice of it in the
Federal Register.
The Administrator may authorize an exception to this requirement for reasons of national security if the HSSO requests it at least 30 calendar days before the meeting, with the concurrence of the General Counsel of designee.
(n) An advisory committee meeting is not open to the public, nor is the attendance, appearance, or filing of statements by interested persons permitted, if the Administrator decides that the meeting is exempted under the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b (c)) and there is sufficient reason to invoke the exemption. If only part of the meeting concerns exempted matters, only that part is closed. The HSSO or Regional Administrator submits any decisions concerning the closing of meetings in writing to the Administrator for approval at least 30 calendar days in advance of the meeting. These decisions clearly set forth the reasons for doing so, citing the specific exemptions used from the Government in the Sunshine Act in the meeting notice published in the
Federal Register.
They are made available to the public on request. The Administrator may waive the 30-day requirement when a lesser period of time is requested and adequately justified.
(o) If any meeting or portion of a meeting is closed to public attendance, the advisory committee issues a report at lease annually setting forth a summary of its activities and such related matters as would be informative to the public, consistent with the policy of 5 U.S.C. 552(b). Notice of the availability of the report and instructions on how to gain access to it are published in the
Federal Register
no later than 60 days after its completion. In addition, copies of the report are filed with the Library of Congress.
(p) The General Counsel reviews all requests to close meetings.
(q) The HSSO or Regional Administrator publishes the meeting notices in the
Federal Register,
including the reasons why all or part of the meeting is closed, citing the specified exemptions used from the Government in the Sunshine Act.
§ 105-54.302
Committee records and reports.
(a) Subject to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the records, reports, transcripts, minutes, appendixes, working papers, drafts, studies, agenda, or other documents that were available to or prepared for or by a GSA advisory committee are available (until the committee ceases to exist) for public inspection and copying in
the office of the Government Chairperson or Designated Federal Officer. Requests to inspect or copy these records are processed under 41 CFR 105-60.4. Except where prohibited by a contract entered into before January 5, 1973, copies of transcripts, if any, of committee meetings are made available by the Government chairperson or Designated Federal Officer to any person at the cost of duplication. After the committee's work ends, disposition of the committee documents and the release of information from them are made in accordance with Federal records, statutes, and regulations.
(b) Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552(b) and instructions of the Committee Management Secretariat, the Government chairperson or Designated Federal Officer files at least eight copies of each report an advisory committee makes, including any report on closed meetings with the Library of Congress at the time of its issuance. Where appropriate, the chairperson also files copies of background papers that consultants to the advisory committee prepare with the Library of Congress. The transmittal letter identifies the materials being furnished, with a copy of the transmittal provided to the GSA Committee Management Officer.
§ 105-54.303
Fiscal and administrative provisions.
(a) Each HSSO and each Regional Administrator ensures that under established GSA procedures, records are kept that fully disclose the disposition of funds at the disposal of an advisory committee and the nature and extent of the committee's activities.
(b) When GSA is assigned to provide administrative support for a Presidential advisory committee, the Agency Liaison Coordinator in the Office of the Deputy Regional Administrator, National Capital Region, as a part of its support, arranges with the Office of Finance, Office of the Comptroller, for maintaining all financial records.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in a Presidential order, statute, or other authority, the GSA service or staff office sponsoring an advisory committee provides support services for the committee.
(d) The guidelines in paragraph (e) through (l) of this section are established under section 7(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 86 Stat. 773. They apply to the pay of members, staff, and consultants of an advisory committee, except that nothing in this paragraph will affect a rate of pay or a limitation on a rate of pay that is established by statute or a rate of pay established under the General Schedule classification and pay system in Chapter 51 and Subchapter III of Chapter 53 of Title 5, U.S.C.
(e) The members of GSA advisory committee established pursuant to the Administrator's authority under section 205(g) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 486(g)), are not compensated, since, by law, members so appointed shall service without compensation. A person who (without regard to his or her service with an advisory committee) is a full-time Federal employee will normally receive compensation at the rate at which he or she would otherwise be compensated.
(f) When required by law, the pay of the members of GSA advisory committees will be fixed to the daily equivalent of a rate of the General Schedule in 5 U.S.C. 5332 unless the members are appointed as consultants and compensated as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. In determining an appropriate rate of pay for the members, GSA must give consideration to the significance, scope, and technical complexity of the matters with which the advisory committee is concerned and the qualifications required of the members of the advisory committee. GSA may not fix the pay of the members of an advisory committee at a rate higher than the daily equivalent of the maximum rate for a GS-15 under the General Schedule, unless a higher rate is mandated by statute, or the Administrator has personally determined that a higher rate of pay under the General Schedule is justified and necessary. Such a determination must be reviewed by the Administrator annually. Accordingly, the Administrator may not fix the pay of the members of an advisory committee at a rate of pay higher than the daily equivalent of a rate for a GSA 18, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5332.
(g) The pay of each staff member of an advisory committee is fixed at a rate of the General Schedule, General Management Schedule, or Senior Executive Service pay rate in which the staff member's position would be placed (5 U.S.C. Chapter 51). GSA cannot fix the pay of a staff member higher than the daily equivalent of the maximum rate for GS-15 unless the Administrator decides that under the General Schedule, General Management Schedule, or Senior Executive Service classification system, the staff member's position should be higher than GS-15. The Administrator must review this decision annually.
(1) In establishing compensation rates, GSA must comply with applicable statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, and administrative guidelines.
(2) A staff member who is a Federal employee serves with the knowledge of the Designated Federal Officer and the approval of the employee's direct supervisor. A staff member who is a non-Federal employee is appointed under agency procedures, after consultation with the advisory committee.
(h) The pay of a consultant to an advisory committee will be fixed after giving consideration to the qualifications required of the consultant and the significance, scope, and technical complexity of the work. The rate of pay will not exceed the maximum rate of pay which the agency may pay experts and consultants under 5 U.S.C. 3109 and must be in accordance with any applicable statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, and administrative guidelines.
(i) Advisory committee and staff members, while performing their duties away from their homes or regular places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem instead of subsistence, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5703 for persons employed intermittently in the Government service.
(j) Members of an advisory committee and its staff who are blind or deaf or who otherwise qualify as handicapped persons (under section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794)), and who do not otherwise qualify for assistance under 5 U.S.C. 3102, as an employee of an agency (under section 3102(a)(1) of Title 5), may be provided the services of a personal assistant.
(k) Under this paragraph, GSA may accept the gratuitous services of a member, consultant, or staff member of an advisory committee who agrees in advance to serve without compensation.
(l) A person who immediately before his or her service with an advisory committee was a full-time Federal employee may receive compensation at the rate at which he or she was compensated as a Federal employee.
§ 105-54.304
Cost guidelines.
(a) The reporting and estimating of the costs of advisory committees include direct obligations for the following items:
(1) Pay compensation of committee members; consultants to the committee; all permanent, temporary, or part-time (GM, GS, WB, or other) positions which are a part of or support the committee; and all overtime related to committee functions (Compensation should reflect actual or estimated Federal person-years or parts thereof devoted to a committee's activities. It includes the compensation of Federal employees assigned to committees, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, from agencies or departments other than to which the committee reports.);
(2) Personnel benefits associated with the above compensation (13 percent of basic payroll);
(3) Travel costs (including per diem) of committee members; consultants; and all permanent, temporary, or part-time positions which are a part of or support the committee;
(4) Transportation of things, communications, and printing and reproduction;
(5) Rent for additional space acquired for committee use;
(6) Other services required by the committee, including data processing services, management studies and evaluations, contractual services, and reimbursable services; and
(7) Supplies, materials, and equipment acquired for committee use.
(b) The reporting and estimating of the cost of advisory committees does not include indirect or overhead costs;
e.g., the costs of the committee management system (committee management officers, etc.).
§ 105-54.305
Renewal of advisory committees.
(a) Each advisory committee being continued is renewed for successive 2-year periods beginning with the date when it was established according to the following, except for statutory advisory committees: (For renewal of statutory advisory committees, see paragraph (b) of this section.)
(1) Advisory committees are not renewed unless there is a compelling need for them, they have balanced membership, and they conduct their business as openly as possible under the law.
(2) The renewal of a committee requires that the responsible HSSO submit to the GSA Committee Management Officer the following:
(i) An updated charter with an explanation of the need for the renewal of the committee. The charter and explanation are furnished 60 calendar days before the 2-year anniversary date of the committee.);
(ii) A letter signed by the HSSO to the Director, Committee Management Secretariat, with information copies to the Administrator and the Deputy Administrator, setting forth:
(A) An explanation of why the committee is essential to the conduct of agency business and is in the public interest;
(B) GSA's plan to attain balanced membership of the committee; and
(C) An explanation of why the committee's functions cannot be performed by GSA, another existing GSA advisory committee, or other means such as a public hearing;
(iii) A notice for publication in the
Federal Register
describing the nature and purpose of the committee and containing a certification by the Administrator that renewing the advisory committee is in the public interest.
(3) On receiving the above documents, the GSA Committee Management Officer submits the renewal letter to the Committee Management Secretariat not more than 60 calendar days nor less than 30 days before the committee expires. Following receipt of the Committee Management Secretariat's views on the committee renewal, the Officer obtains the Administrator's approval of the charter and the
Federal Register
notice. The Officer publishes notice of the renewal in the
Federal Register
and files copies of the updated charter. The 15-day notice requirement does not apply to committee renewals, notices of which may be published concurrently with the filing of the charter.
(b) Each statutory advisory committee is renewed by the filing of a renewal charter upon the expiration of each successive 2-year period following the date of enactment of the statute establishing the committee according to the following:
(1) The procedures in paragraph (a)(2) of this section apply to the renewal of a statutory committee except that neither prior consultation with the Committee Management Secretariat nor a
Federal Register
notice is required. Accordingly, the letter that paragraph a(2)(ii) requires is sent to the Administrator rather than the Committee Management Secretariat. Due to the nature of a committee the law established, the explanation of the need to continue the committee's existence is less extensive than the explanation for the continuation of a non-statutory committee; and
(2) The GSA Committee Management Officer provides the Committee Management Secretariat with a copy of the filed charter.
(c) An advisory committee required to file a new charter may not take any action other than preparing the charter between the date it is to be filed and the date it is actually filed.
§ 105-54.306
Amendment of advisory committee charters.
(a) A charter is amended when GSA decides that the existing charter no longer accurately reflects the objectives or functions of the committee. Changes may be minor, such as revising the name of the committee or modifying the estimated number or frequency of meetings, or they may be major dealing with the basic objectives or composition of the committee. The Administrator retains final authority
for amending the charter of an advisory committee. Amending an existing advisory committee charter does not constitute renewal of the committee.
(b) To make a minor amendment, the Administrator approves the amended charter and has it filed according to § 105-54.203-1.
(c) To make a major amendment, the Committee Management Officer submits an amended charter and a letter to the Committee Management Secretariat, signed by the HSSO with the concurrence of the General Counsel or designee, requesting the Secretariat's views on the amended language, along with an explanation of the purpose of the changes and why they are necessary. The Secretariat reviews the proposed changes and notifies the Committee Management Officer of its views within 15 calendar days of receiving it, if possible. The Administrator has the charter filed according to § 105-54.203-1.
(d) Amending an existing charter does not constitute renewal of the committee.
§ 105-54.307
Termination of advisory committees.
(a) The sponsoring HSSO terminates an advisory committee that has fulfilled the purpose stated in its charter. The official takes action to rescind any existing orders relating to the committee and to notify committee members, the GSA Committee Management Officer, and the Committee Management Secretariat of the termination.
(b) Failing to continue an advisory committee by the 2-year anniversary date terminates the committee, unless its duration is provided for by law.
§ 105-54.308
Responsibilities of the Administrator.
The Administrator must ensure:
(a) Compliance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act and this chapter;
(b) Issuance of administrative guidelines and management controls that apply to all advisory committees established or used by the agency;
(c) Designation of a Committee Management Officer to carry out the functions specified in section 89(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act;
(d) Provision of a written determination stating the reasons for closing any advisory committee meeting to the public;
(e) A review, at least annually, of the need to continue each existing advisory committee, consistent with the public interest and the purpose and functions of each committee;
(f) The appointment of a Designated Federal Officer for each advisory committee and its subcommittee;
(g) The opportunity for reasonable public participation in advisory committee activities; and
(h) That the number of committee members is limited to the fewest necessary to accomplish committee objectives.
§ 105-54.309
Added responsibilities of service and staff office heads and regional administrators.
(a) No later than the first meeting of an advisory committee, submit to committee members, committee staff, consultants, and appropriate agency management personnel a written statement of the purpose, objectives, and expected accomplishments of the committee;
(b) Solicit in writing or in a formal meeting at least annually the views of committee members on the effectiveness, activities, and management of the committee, including recommendations for improvement. Review comments to determine whether improvements or corrective action is warranted. Retain recommendations until the committee is terminated or renewed.
(c) Involve key management personnel of the agency whose interests are affected by the committee in committee meetings, including reviewing reports and establishing agendas.
(d) Periodically, but not less than annually, review the level of committee staff suport to make sure that expenditures are justified by committee activity and benefit to the Government.
(e) Monitor the attendance and participation of committee members and consider replacing any member who misses a substantial number of scheduled meetings.
(f) Establish meeting dates and distribute agendas and other materials well in advance.
§ 105-54.310
Advisory committee duties of the GSA Committee Management Officer.
In addition to implementing the provisions of section 8(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the GSA Committee Management Officer carries out all responsibilities delegated by the Administrator. The Officer ensures that sections 10(b), 12(a), and 13 of the Act are implemented by GSA to provide for appropriate record keeping. Records include, but are not limited to:
(a) A set of approved charters and membership lists for each advisory committee;
(b) Copies of GSA's portion of the Annual Report of Federal Advisory Committees.
(c) Guidelines on committee management operations and procedures as maintained and updated; and
(d) Determinations to close advisory committee meetings.
§ 105-54.311
Complaint procedures.
(a) Any person whose request for access to an advisory committee document is denied may seek administrative review under 41 CFR 105-60, which implements the Freedom of Information Act. (See GSA Order, GSA regulations under the “Freedom of Information Act” (ADM 7900.3A).)
(b) Aggrieved individuals or organizations may file written complaints on matters not involving access to documents with the Deputy Administrator, General Services Administration, Washington, DC 20405. Complaints must be filed within 90 calendar days from the date the grievance arose. The Deputy Administrator promptly acts on each complaint and notifies the complainant in writing of the decision.

# Subpart 105-54.4—Reports
§ 105-54.400
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the reports required by this part 105-54 and prescribes instructions for submission of the reports.
§ 105-54.401
Reports on GSA Federal Advisory Committees.
(a) The Committee Management Secretariat periodically issues reporting instructions and procedures. The GSA Committee Management Officer files a report each fiscal year providing program, financial, and membership information. The Secretariat uses the information in preparing recommendations and status reports on advisory committee matters and in assisting the President in preparing and submitting a fiscal year report to the Congress. Instructions for preparing GSA's submission are provided by the GSA Committee Management Officer.
(b) Reports on closed meetings are required as specified in § 105-54.301(o).
Pt. 105-55

# PART 105-55—COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
105-55.001
Prescription of standards.
105-55.002
Definitions.
105-55.003
Antitrust, fraud, tax, interagency claims, and claims over $100,000 excluded.
105-55.004
Compromise, waiver, or disposition under other statutes not precluded.
105-55.005
Form of payment.
105-55.006
Subdivision of claims not authorized.
105-55.007
Required administrative proceedings.
105-55.008
No private rights created.
105-55.009
Aggressive agency collection activity.
105-55.010
Demand for payment.
105-55.011
Collection by administrative offset.
105-55.012
Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.
105-55.013
Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.
105-55.014
Liquidation of collateral.
105-55.015
Collection in installments.
105-55.016
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
105-55.017
Use and disclosure of mailing addresses.
105-55.018
Exemptions.
105-55.019
Compromise of claims.
105-55.020
Bases for compromise.
105-55.021
Enforcement policy.
105-55.022
Joint and several liability.
105-55.023
Further review of compromise offers.
105-55.024
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
105-55.025
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.
105-55.026
Suspending or terminating collection activity.
105-55.027
Suspension of collection activity.
105-55.028
Termination of collection activity.
105-55.029
Exception to termination.
105-55.030
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.
105-55.031
Prompt referral to the Department of Justice.
105-55.032
Claims Collection Litigation Report.
105-55.033
Preservation of evidence.
105-55.034
Minimum amount of referrals to the Department of Justice.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552-553; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, 3719, 3720B, 3720D; 31 CFR parts 900-904.

# Source:
68 FR 68741, Dec. 10, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-55.001
Prescription of standards.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States issued regulations for collecting debts owed the United States under the authority contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2). The regulations in this part prescribe standards for the General Services Administration (GSA) use in the administrative collection, offset, compromise, and the suspension or termination of collection activity for civil claims for money, funds, or property, as defined by 31 U.S.C. 3701(b), unless specific GSA statutes or regulations apply to such activities or, as provided for by Title 11 of the United States Code, when the claims involve bankruptcy. The regulations in this part also prescribe standards for referring debts to the Department of Justice for litigation. Additional guidance is contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables,” the Department of the Treasury's “Managing Federal Receivables,” and other publications concerning debt collection and debt management.
(b) GSA is not limited to the remedies contained in this part and will use all authorized remedies, including alternative dispute resolution and arbitration, to collect civil claims, to the extent such remedies are not inconsistent with the Federal Claims Collection Act, as amended, Chapter 37 of Title 31, United States Code; the Debt Collection Act of 1982, 5 U.S.C. 5514; the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.,
or other relevant statutes. The regulations in this part are not intended to impair GSA's common law rights to collect debts.
(c) Standards and policies regarding the classification of debt for accounting purposes (for example, write off of uncollectible debt) are contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables.”
§ 105-55.002
Definitions.
(a)
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a claim.
(b)
Compromise
means the reduction of a debt as provided in §§ 105-55.019 and 105-55.020.
(c)
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury or other Government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
(d)
Debtor
means an individual, organization, association, corporation, partnership, or a State or local government indebted to the United States or a person or entity with legal responsibility for assuming the debtor's obligation.
(e)
Delinquent
or
past-due non-tax debt
means any non-tax debt that has not been paid by the date specified in GSA's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
(f) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the
term Administrator
refers to the
Administrator
of General Services or the Administrator's delegate.
(g) For the purposes of the standards in this part, the terms
claim
and
debt
are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by GSA to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency, from sources which include loans
insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures and all other similar sources, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms
claim
and
debt
include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(h) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the terms
GSA
and
Agency
are synonymous and interchangeable.
(i) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated,
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
(j) For the standards in this part, Federal agencies include agencies of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Government, including Government corporations.
(k)
Hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence concerning the existence and/or amount of a debt, and/or the terms of a repayment schedule, provided such repayment schedule is established other than by a written agreement entered into pursuant to this part. If the hearing official determines the issues in dispute cannot be resolved solely by review of the written record, such as when the validity of the debt turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, an oral hearing may be provided.
(l)
Hearing official
means a Board Judge of the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals.
(m) In this part, words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words signifying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice versa. The terms
includes
and
including
do not exclude matters not listed but do include matters that are in the same general class.
(n)
Reconsideration
means a request by the employee to have a secondary review by GSA of the existence and/or amount of the debt, and/or the proposed offset schedule.
(o)
Recoupment
is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.
(p)
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is the individual's social security number.
(q)
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt or debt-related charge as permitted or required by law.
[68 FR 68741, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-55.003
Antitrust, fraud, tax, interagency claims, and claims over $100,000 excluded.
(a) The standards in this part relating to compromise, suspension, and termination of collection activity do not apply to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or to any debt involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. The standards of this part relating to the administrative collection of claims do apply, but only to the extent authorized by the Department of Justice (DOJ) in a particular case. Upon identification of a claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or any claim involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim, the General Services Administration (GSA) will promptly refer the case to the GSA Office of Inspector General (OIG). The OIG has the responsibility for investigating or referring the matter, where appropriate, to DOJ for action. At its discretion, DOJ may return the claim to GSA for further handling in accordance with the standards of this part.
(b) This part does not apply to tax debts.
(c) This part does not apply to claims between GSA and other Federal agencies.
(d) This part does not apply to claims over $100,000.
§ 105-55.004
Compromise, waiver, or disposition under other statutes not precluded.
Nothing in this part precludes the General Services Administration (GSA) disposition of any claim under statutes and implementing regulations other than subchapter II of chapter 37 of Title 31 of the United States Code (Claims of the United States Government) and the standards in this part. See, e.g., the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651-2653, and applicable regulations, 28 CFR part 43. In such cases, the laws and regulations specifically applicable to claims collection activities of GSA generally take precedence.
§ 105-55.005
Form of payment.
Claims may be paid in the form of money or, when a contractual basis exists, the General Services Administration may demand the return of specific property or the performance of specific services.
§ 105-55.006
Subdivision of claims not authorized.
Debts will not be subdivided to avoid the monetary ceiling established by 31 U.S.C. 3711(a)(2). A debtor's liability arising from a particular transaction or contract shall be considered a single debt in determining whether the debt is one of less than $100,000 (excluding interest, penalties, and administrative costs) or such higher amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe for purposes of compromise, suspension or termination of collection activity.
§ 105-55.007
Required administrative proceedings.
The General Services Administration is not required to omit, foreclose, or duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
§ 105-55.008
No private rights created.
The standards in this part do not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any other person, nor shall the failure of the General Services Administration to comply with any of the provisions of this part be available to any debtor as a defense.
§ 105-55.009
Aggressive agency collection activity.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will aggressively collect all debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, GSA. Collection activities will be undertaken promptly, including letters, telephone calls, electronic mail (e-mail), and Internet inquiries, with follow-up action taken as necessary.
(b) Debts referred or transferred to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), will be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.
(c) GSA will cooperate with other agencies in their debt collection activities.
(d) GSA will consider referring debts that are less than 180 days delinquent to Treasury or to Treasury-designated “debt collection centers” to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Treasury is a debt collection center, is authorized to designate other Federal agencies as debt collection centers based on their performance in collecting delinquent debts, and may withdraw such designations. Referrals to debt collection centers shall be at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, the Secretary. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.
(e) GSA will transfer to the Secretary any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so the Secretary may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. See 31 CFR 285.12
(Transfer of Debts to Treasury for Collection). This requirement does not apply to any debt that—
(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;
(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary;
(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary (see paragraph (d) of this section);
(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent;
(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. GSA may request the Secretary to exempt specific classes of debts;
(7) Is in bankruptcy (see § 105-55.010(h));
(8) Involves a deceased debtor;
(9) Is owed to GSA by a foreign government; or
(10) Is in an administrative appeals process, until the process is complete and the amount due is set.
(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and will be added to the debt as an administrative cost (see § 105-55.016).
§ 105-55.010
Demand for payment.
(a) Written demand, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, will be made promptly upon a debtor of the United States in terms informing the debtor of the consequences of failing to cooperate with the General Services Administration (GSA) to resolve the debt. The specific content, timing, and number of demand letters (usually no more than three, thirty days apart) will depend upon the type and amount of the debt and the debtor's response, if any, to GSA's letters, telephone calls, electronic mail (e-mail) or Internet inquiries. In determining the timing of the demand letter(s), GSA will give due regard to the need to refer debts promptly to the Department of Justice for litigation, in accordance with § 105-55.031. When necessary to protect the Government's interest (for example, to prevent the running of a statute of limitations), written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under this part, including immediate referral for litigation.
(b) Demand letters will inform the debtor—
(1) The basis and the amount of the indebtedness and the rights, if any, the debtor may have to seek review within GSA (see § 105-55.011(e));
(2) The applicable standards for imposing any interest, penalties, or administrative costs (see § 105-55.016);
(3) The date by which payment should be made to avoid late charges (i.e., interest, penalties, and administrative costs) and enforced collection, which generally will not be more than 30 days from the date the demand letter is mailed or hand-delivered; and
(4) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office within GSA.
(c) GSA will exercise care to ensure that demand letters are mailed or hand-delivered on the same day they are dated. For the purposes of written demand, notification by electronic mail (e-mail) and/or Internet delivery is considered a form of written demand notice. There is no prescribed format for demand letters. GSA will utilize demand letters and procedures that will lead to the earliest practicable determination of whether the debt can be resolved administratively or must be referred for litigation.
(d) GSA may include in demand letters such items as the willingness to discuss alternative methods of payment; Agency policies with respect to the use of credit bureaus, debt collection centers, and collection agencies; Agency remedies to enforce payment of the debt (including assessment of interest, administrative costs and penalties, administrative garnishment, the use of collection agencies, Federal salary offset, tax refund offset, administrative offset, and litigation); the requirement that any debt delinquent for more than
180 days will be transferred to the Department of the Treasury for collection; and, depending on applicable statutory authority, the debtor's entitlement to consideration of a waiver.
(e) GSA will respond promptly to communications from debtors, within 30 days whenever feasible, and will advise debtors who dispute debts to furnish available evidence to support their contentions.
(f) Prior to the initiation of the demand process or at any time during or after completion of the demand process, if GSA determines to pursue, or is required to pursue, offset, the procedures applicable to offset will be followed (see § 105-55.011). The availability of funds or money for debt satisfaction by offset and GSA's determination to pursue collection by offset will release the Agency from the necessity of further compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(g) Prior to referring a debt for litigation, GSA will advise each person determined to be liable for the debt that, unless the debt can be collected administratively, litigation may be initiated. This notification will comply with Executive Order 12988 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp. pp. 157-163) and may be given as part of a demand letter under paragraph (b) of this section or in a separate document.
(h) When GSA learns a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, before proceeding with further collection action, the Agency will ascertain the impact of the Bankruptcy Code on any pending or contemplated collection activities. Unless the Agency determines the automatic stay imposed at the time of filing pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 362 has been lifted or is no longer in effect, in most cases collection activity against the debtor will stop immediately.
(1) A proof of claim will be filed in most cases with the bankruptcy court or the Trustee. GSA will refer to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 106 relating to the consequences on sovereign immunity of filing a proof of claim.
(2) If GSA is a secured creditor, it may seek relief from the automatic stay regarding its security, subject to the provisions and requirements of 11 U.S.C. 362.
(3) Offset is stayed in most cases by the automatic stay. However, GSA will determine whether its payments to the debtor and payments of other agencies available for offset may be frozen by the Agency until relief from the automatic stay can be obtained from the bankruptcy court. GSA also will determine whether recoupment is available.
§ 105-55.011
Collection by administrative offset.
(a)
Scope.
(1) The term “administrative offset” has the meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1).
(2) This section does not apply to—
(i) Debts arising under the Social Security Act, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 404;
(ii) Payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) (see 31 CFR 285.4, Federal Benefit Offset);
(iii) Debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code (see 31 CFR 285.2, Tax Refund Offset) or the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 31 CFR 285.7, Federal Salary Offset);
(v) Offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States;
(vi) Offsets or recoupments under common law, State law, or Federal statutes specifically prohibiting offsets or recoupments of particular types of debts; or
(vii) Offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
(3) Unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, debts or payments that are not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
(4) Unless otherwise provided by law, administrative offset of payments under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 to collect a debt may not be conducted more than 10 years after the General Services Administration's (GSA's) right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to GSA's right to
collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of GSA who were charged with the responsibility to discover and collect such debts. This limitation does not apply to debts reduced to a judgment.
(5) In bankruptcy cases, GSA will ascertain the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 106, 362, and 553, on pending or contemplated collections by offset.
(b)
Mandatory centralized administrative offset.
(1) GSA is required to refer past due, legally enforceable non-tax debts that are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset. Debts that are less than 180 days delinquent also may be referred to the Secretary for this purpose. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for debt certification requirements.
(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to the Secretary as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by the Secretary. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.
(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice will include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of GSA as the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within GSA who will respond to questions regarding the offset.
(4)(i) Offsets may be initiated only after the debtor—
(A) Has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of GSA to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(7); and
(B) The debtor has been given—
(
1
) The opportunity to inspect and copy Agency records related to the debt;
(
2
) The opportunity for a review within GSA of the determination of indebtedness (see paragraph (e) of this section); and
(
3
) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(ii) The procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may be omitted when—
(A) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in
Cecile Industries, Inc.
v.
Cheney,
995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
(C) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, GSA first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, GSA will give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and will promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
(iii) When GSA previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (see, e.g., § 105-55.010), the Agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.
(5) When referring delinquent debts to the Secretary, GSA will certify, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, that—
(i) The debt(s) is (are) past due and legally enforceable; and
(ii) GSA has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and Agency regulations.
(6) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. The Secretary shall exempt payments under means-tested programs from centralized administrative offset when requested in writing by the Administrator. Also, the Secretary may exempt other classes of payments from centralized offset upon the written request of the Administrator.
(7) Benefit payments made under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 921
et seq.
), and any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than tier 2 benefits), may be offset only in accordance with Treasury regulations, issued in consultation with the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Management and Budget. See 31 CFR 285.4.
(8) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), the Secretary may waive the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 concerning matching agreements and post-match notification and verification (5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and (p)) for centralized administrative offset upon receipt of a certification from GSA that the due process requirements enumerated in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. The certification of a debt in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section will satisfy this requirement. If such a waiver is granted, only the Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury is required to oversee any matching activities, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(g). This waiver authority does not apply to offsets conducted under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c)
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that GSA conducts, at the Agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with another agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable non-tax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, GSA may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for GSA to request the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.
(2) Such offsets will occur only after—
(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from GSA that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that GSA has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.
(3) Payment authorizing agencies will comply with offset requests by GSA to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the program of the payment authorizing agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law.
(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, GSA will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
(d)
Requests to OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
Upon providing OPM written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, GSA may request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801 through 831.1808. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to the expiration of the
time limitations referenced in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(e)
Review requirements.
(1) A debtor may seek review of a debt by sending a signed and dated petition for review to the official named in the demand letter. A copy of the petition must also be sent to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA) at 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405.
(2) For purposes of this section, whenever GSA is required to afford a debtor a review within the Agency, the hearing official will provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the hearing official determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence; for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
(3) Witnesses will be asked to testify under oath or affirmation, and a written transcript of the hearing will be kept and made available to either party in the event of an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706. Arrangements for the taking of the transcript will be made by the hearing official, and all charges associated with the taking of the transcript will be the responsibility of GSA.
(4) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, the hearing official will accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
(5) Hearings will be conducted by a Board Judge of the CBCA. GSA must provide proof that a valid non-tax debt exists, and the debtor must provide evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect.
(6) If an oral hearing is provided, the debtor may choose to have it conducted in the hearing official's office located at 1800 M Street NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036, at another location designated by the hearing official, or may choose a hearing by telephone. All personal and travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor. All telephonic charges incurred during a hearing will be the responsibility of GSA.
(7) If the debtor is an employee of GSA, the employee may represent himself or herself or may be represented by another person of his or her choice at the hearing. GSA will not compensate the employee for representation expenses, including hourly fees for attorneys, travel expenses, and costs for reproducing documents.
(8) A written decision will be issued by the hearing official no later than 60 days from the date the petition for review is received by GSA. The decision will state the—
(i) Facts supporting the nature and origin of the debt;
(ii) Hearing officials analysis, findings, and conclusions as to the debtor's and/or GSA's grounds;
(iii) Amount and validity of the debt; and
(iv) Repayment schedule, if applicable.
(9) The hearing official's decision will be the final Agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
(f)
Waiver requirements.
(1) Under certain circumstances, a waiver of a claim against an employee of GSA arising out of an erroneous payment of pay, allowances, travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances may be granted in whole or in part.
(2) GSA procedures for waiving a claim of erroneous payment of pay and allowances can be found in GSA Order CFO 4200.1, “Waiver of Claims for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances”.
(3) GSA will follow the procedures of 5 U.S.C. 5584 when considering a request for waiver of erroneous payment of travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances.
[68 FR 68741, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-55.012
Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the General Services Administration (GSA) may contract with private collection contractors, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(f),
to recover delinquent debts provided that—
(1) GSA retain the authority to resolve disputes, compromise debts, suspend or terminate collection activity, and refer debts for litigation;
(2) The private collection contractor is not allowed to offer the debtor, as an incentive for payment, the opportunity to pay the debt less the private collection contractor's fee unless GSA has granted such authority prior to the offer;
(3) The contract provides that the private collection contractor is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), and to applicable Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, including but not limited to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692; and
(4) The private collection contractor is required to account for all amounts collected.
(b) GSA will use Governmentwide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors. However, GSA may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between the Agency and the private collection contractor only if such debts are not subject to the requirement to transfer debts to Treasury for debt collection. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g); 31 CFR 285.12(e).
(c) GSA may fund private collection contractor contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(b), or as otherwise permitted by law.
(d) GSA may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, such as unclaimed assets.
(e) GSA may enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(b), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the Agency for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered, unless otherwise prohibited by statute.
§ 105-55.013
Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.
(a) Unless waived by the Administrator, the General Services Administration (GSA) will not extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a non-tax debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and re-delegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of GSA. GSA may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. The Secretary may exempt classes of debts from this prohibition and has prescribed standards defining when a “delinquency” is “resolved” for purposes of this prohibition. See 31 CFR 285.13.
(b) In non-bankruptcy cases, GSA, when seeking the collection of statutory penalties, forfeitures, or other types of claims, will consider the suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay such a debt in accordance with GSA regulations or governing procedures. The debtor will be advised in GSA's written demand for payment of the Agency's ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges. If GSA makes, guarantees, insures, acquires, or participates in loans, the Agency will consider suspending or disqualifying any lender, contractor, or broker from doing further business with the Agency or engaging in programs sponsored by the Agency if such lender, contractor, or broker fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time or if such lender, contractor, or broker has been suspended, debarred, or disqualified from participation in a program or activity by another Federal agency. The failure of any surety to honor its obligations in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9305 will be reported to the Treasury. The Treasury will forward notification to all interested agencies that a surety's certificate of authority to do business with the Government has been revoked by the Treasury.
(c) The suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or privileges also may extend to GSA programs or activities administered by the states on behalf of GSA, to the extent they affect GSA's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors.
(d) In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of GSA's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges, the Agency will ascertain the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 362 and 525, which may restrict such action.
§ 105-55.014
Liquidation of collateral.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will liquidate security or collateral through the exercise of a power of sale in the security instrument or a non-judicial foreclosure, and apply the proceeds to the applicable debt(s), if the debtor fails to pay the debt(s) within a reasonable time after demand and if such action is in the best interest of the United States. Collection from other sources, including liquidation of security or collateral, is not a prerequisite to requiring payment by a surety, insurer, or guarantor unless such action is expressly required by statute or contract.
(b) When GSA learns a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, the Agency will ascertain the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, including, but not limited to, 11 U.S.C. 362, to determine the applicability of the automatic stay and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay prior to proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 105-55.015
Collection in installments.
(a) Whenever feasible, the General Services Administration (GSA) will collect the total amount of a debt in one lump sum. If a debtor is financially unable to pay a debt in one lump sum, GSA may accept payment in regular installments. GSA may obtain financial statements from debtors who represent they are unable to pay in one lump sum and independently verify such representations whenever possible (see § 105-55.020(g)). When GSA agrees to accept payments in regular installments, a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor will be obtained specifying all of the terms of the arrangement and containing a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default. If the debtor's financial statement discloses the ownership of assets which are free and clear of liens or security interests, or assets in which the debtor owns an equity, the debtor may be asked to secure the payment of an installment note by executing a Security Agreement and Financing Statement transferring to the United States a security interest in the asset until the debt is paid.
(b) The size and frequency of installment payments will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. The installment payments will be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less, unless circumstances warrant a longer period.
(c) Security for deferred payments may be obtained in appropriate cases. GSA may accept installment payments notwithstanding the refusal of the debtor to execute a written agreement or to give security, at the Agency's option.
§ 105-55.016
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, the General Services Administration (GSA) will charge interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. GSA will send by U.S. mail, overnight delivery service, or hand-delivery a written notice to the debtor, at the debtor's most recent address available to the Agency, explaining the Agency's requirements concerning these charges, except where these requirements are included in a contractual or repayment agreement. These charges will continue to accrue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved through compromise, termination, or waiver of the charges.
(b) GSA will charge interest on debts owed the United States as follows:
(1) Interest will accrue from the date of delinquency, or as otherwise provided by law.
(2) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, the rate of interest charged
will be the rate established annually by the Secretary in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717(a)(1). Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, GSA may charge a higher rate of interest if it is reasonably determined that a higher rate is necessary to protect the rights of the United States. GSA will document the reason(s) for a determination that the higher rate is necessary.
(3) The rate of interest, as initially charged, will remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. When a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, GSA may require payment of interest at a new rate that reflects the Current Value of Funds Rate (CVFR) at the time the new agreement is executed. Interest will not be compounded, that is, interest will not be charged on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section. If a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement will be added to the principal under the new repayment agreement.
(c) GSA will assess administrative costs incurred for processing and handling delinquent debts. The calculation of administrative costs will be based on actual costs incurred or upon estimated costs as determined by the Agency.
(d) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, GSA will charge a penalty, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717(e)(2), not to exceed six percent a year on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge will accrue from the date of delinquency.
(e) GSA may increase an “administrative debt” by the cost of living adjustment in lieu of charging interest and penalties under this section. “Administrative debt” includes, but is not limited to, a debt based on fines, penalties, and overpayments, but does not include a debt based on the extension of Government credit, such as those arising from loans and loan guaranties. The cost of living adjustment is the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the adjustment exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year in which the debt was determined or last adjusted. Increases to administrative debts will be computed annually. GSA will use this alternative only when there is a legitimate reason to do so, such as when calculating interest and penalties on a debt would be extremely difficult because of the age of the debt.
(f) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received by GSA will be applied first to outstanding penalties, second to administrative charges, third to interest, and last to principal.
(g) GSA will waive the collection of interest, penalty and administrative charges imposed pursuant to this section on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. GSA may extend this 30-day period on a case-by-case basis. In addition, GSA may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs charged under this section, in whole or in part, without regard to the amount of the debt, either under the criteria set forth in these standards for the compromise of debts, or if the Agency determines that collection of these charges resulted from Agency error, is against equity and good conscience, or is not in the best interest of the United States.
(h) Unless a statute or regulation specifically prohibits collection, interest, penalties and administrative costs will continue to accrue for periods during which collection activity has been suspended pending Agency review or waiver consideration.
(i) GSA is authorized to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717, in accordance with the common law.
§ 105-55.017
Use and disclosure of mailing addresses.
(a) When attempting to locate a debtor in order to collect or compromise a debt under this part or other authority, the General Services Administration (GSA) may send a request to the Secretary (or designee) to obtain a debtor's mailing address from the records of the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) GSA is authorized to use mailing addresses obtained under paragraph (a) of this section to enforce collection of a delinquent debt and may disclose such mailing addresses to other agencies and to collection agencies for collection purposes.
§ 105-55.018
Exemptions.
(a) The preceding sections of this part, to the extent they reflect remedies or procedures prescribed by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, such as administrative offset, use of credit bureaus, contracting for collection agencies, and interest and related charges, do not apply to debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided under 42 U.S.C. 404 and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c); or the tariff laws of the United States. These remedies and procedures, however, may be authorized with respect to debts that are exempt from the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, to the extent they are authorized under some other statute or the common law.
(b) Claims arising from the audit of transportation accounts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726 will be determined, collected, compromised, terminated or settled in accordance with regulation published under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3726 (see 41 CFR part 101-41, administered by the Director, Office of Transportation Audits) and are otherwise exempted from this part.
§ 105-55.019
Compromise of claims.
(a) The standards set forth in this section apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. The General Services Administration (GSA) may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the Agency when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General. The Administrator may designate other GSA officials to exercise the authorities in this section.
(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the Department of Justice. GSA will evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in § 105-55.020. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the Agency, GSA will refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice using a Claims Collection Litigation Report. The referral will include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. Justice Department approval is not required if GSA rejects a compromise offer.
§ 105-55.020
Bases for compromise.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) may compromise a debt if the full amount cannot be collected because—
(1) The debtor is unable to pay the full amount in a reasonable time, as verified through credit reports or other financial information.
(2) GSA is unable to collect the debt in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings.
(3) The cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount.
(4) There is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court.
(b) In determining the debtor's inability to pay, GSA will consider relevant factors such as the following:
(1) Age and health of the debtor.
(2) Present and potential income.
(3) Inheritance prospects.
(4) The possibility that assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor.
(5) The availability of assets or income that may be realized by enforced collection proceedings.
(c) GSA will verify the debtor's claim of inability to pay by using a credit report and other financial information as provided in paragraph (g) of this section. GSA will consider the applicable exemptions available to the debtor
under State and Federal law in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. GSA also may consider uncertainty as to the price that collateral or other property will bring at a forced sale in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. A compromise effected under this section will be for an amount that bears a reasonable relation to the amount that can be recovered by enforced collection procedures, with regard to the exemptions available to the debtor and the time that collection will take.
(d) If there is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court for the full amount claimed, either because of the legal issues involved or because of a bona fide dispute as to the facts, then the amount accepted in compromise of such cases will fairly reflect the probabilities of successful prosecution to judgment, with due regard given to the availability of witnesses and other evidentiary support for the Government's claim. In determining the litigative risks involved, GSA will consider the probable amount of court costs and attorney fees pursuant to the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. 2412 that may be imposed against the Government if it is unsuccessful in litigation.
(e) GSA may compromise a debt if the cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount. The amount accepted in compromise in such cases may reflect an appropriate discount for the administrative and litigative costs of collection, with consideration given to the time it will take to effect collection. Collection costs may be a substantial factor in the settlement of small debts. In determining whether the cost of collection justifies enforced collection of the full amount, GSA will consider whether continued collection of the debt, regardless of cost, is necessary to further an enforcement principle, such as the Government's willingness to pursue aggressively defaulting and uncooperative debtors.
(f) GSA generally will not accept compromises payable in installments. This is not an advantageous form of compromise in terms of time and administrative expense. If, however, payment of a compromise in installments is necessary, GSA will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement providing that, in the event of default, the full original principal balance of the debt prior to compromise, less sums paid thereon, is reinstated. Whenever possible, GSA will obtain security for repayment in the manner set forth in § 105-55.015.
(g) To assess the merits of a compromise offer based in whole or in part on the debtor's inability to pay the full amount of a debt within a reasonable time, GSA may obtain a current financial statement from the debtor, executed under penalty of perjury, showing the debtor's assets, liabilities, income and expenses. GSA also may obtain credit reports or other financial information to assess compromise offers. GSA may use their own financial information form or may request suitable forms from the Department of Justice or the local United States Attorney's Office.
§ 105-55.021
Enforcement policy.
Pursuant to this section, the General Services Administration may compromise statutory penalties, forfeitures, or claims established as an aid to enforcement and to compel compliance, if the Agency's enforcement policy in terms of deterrence and securing compliance, present and future, will be adequately served by the Agency's acceptance of the sum to be agreed upon.
§ 105-55.022
Joint and several liability.
(a) When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, the General Services Administration (GSA) may pursue collection activity against all debtors, as appropriate. GSA will not attempt to allocate the burden of payment between the debtors but will proceed to liquidate the indebtedness as quickly as possible.
(b) GSA will ensure that a compromise agreement with one debtor does not release the Agency's claim against the remaining debtors. The amount of a compromise with one debtor will not be considered a precedent or binding in determining the amount that will be required from other debtors jointly and severally liable on the claim.
§ 105-55.023
Further review of compromise offers.
If the General Services Administration (GSA) is uncertain whether to accept a firm, written, substantive compromise offer on a debt that is within the Agency's delegated compromise authority, it may refer the offer to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice (DOJ), using a Claims Collection Litigation Report accompanied by supporting data and particulars concerning the debt. DOJ may act upon such an offer or return it to GSA with instructions or advice.
§ 105-55.024
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
In negotiating a compromise, the General Services Administration (GSA) may consider the tax consequences to the Government. In particular, GSA may consider requiring a waiver of tax-loss-carry-forward and tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor. For information on discharge of indebtedness reporting requirements see § 105-55.030.
§ 105-55.025
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.
In all appropriate instances, a compromise that is accepted by the General Services Administration may be implemented by means of a mutual release, in which the debtor is released from further non-tax liability on the compromised debt in consideration of payment in full of the compromise amount and the Government and its officials, past and present, are released and discharged from any and all claims and causes of action arising from the same transaction that the debtor may have. In the event a mutual release is not executed when a debt is compromised, unless prohibited by law, the debtor is still deemed to have waived any and all claims and causes of action against the Government and its officials related to the transaction giving rise to the compromised debt.
§ 105-55.026
Suspending or terminating collection activity.
(a) The standards set forth in §§ 105-55.027 and 105-55.028 apply to the suspension or termination of collection activity pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711 on debts that do not exceed $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any. Prior to referring a debt to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation, the General Services Administration (GSA) may suspend or terminate collection under this part with respect to debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the Agency.
(b) If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, the principal amount of a debt exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with DOJ. If GSA believes suspension or termination of any debt in excess of $100,000 may be appropriate, the Agency will refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in DOJ, using the Claims Collection Litigation Report. The referral will specify the reasons for the Agency's recommendation. If, prior to referral to DOJ, GSA determines a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without legal merit, the Agency may terminate collection activity regardless of the amount involved without obtaining DOJ concurrence.
§ 105-55.027
Suspension of collection activity.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) may suspend collection activity on a debt when—
(1) The Agency cannot locate the debtor;
(2) The debtor's financial condition is expected to improve; or
(3) The debtor has requested a waiver or review of the debt.
(b) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, GSA may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity and—
(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or
(2) Future collection can be effected by administrative offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to the 10-year limitation for administrative offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or
(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended, and such suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.
(c)(1) GSA will suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for waiver or administrative review of the debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits the Agency from collecting the debt during that time.
(2) If the statute under which the request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, GSA will use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. Further, GSA ordinarily will suspend collection action upon a request for waiver or review if the Agency is prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to Agency consideration of the debtor's request. However, GSA will not suspend collection when the Agency determines the request for waiver or review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
(d) When GSA learns a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, in most cases the collection activity on a debt will be suspended, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless the Agency can clearly establish the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. GSA will, if legally permitted, take the necessary legal steps to ensure no funds or money are paid by the Agency to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.
§ 105-55.028
Termination of collection activity.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) may terminate collection activity when—
(1) The Agency is unable to collect any substantial amount through its own efforts or through the efforts of others;
(2) The Agency is unable to locate the debtor;
(3) Costs of collection are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable;
(4) The debt is legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(5) The debt cannot be substantiated; or
(6) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
(b) Before terminating collection activity, GSA will pursue all appropriate means of collection and determine, based upon the results of the collection activity, that the debt is uncollectible. Termination of collection activity ceases active collection of the debt. The termination of collection activity does not preclude GSA from retaining a record of the account for purposes of—
(1) Selling the debt, if the Secretary determines that such sale is in the best interests of the United States;
(2) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(3) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(4) Screening future applicants of loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges for prior indebtedness.
(c) Generally, GSA will terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of the amount. GSA may continue collection activity, however, subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization. Offset and recoupment rights may survive the discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy and, under some circumstances, claims also may survive the discharge. For example, the claims of GSA that it is a known creditor of a debtor may survive a discharge if the Agency did not receive formal notice of the proceedings.
§ 105-55.029
Exception to termination.
When a significant enforcement policy is involved, or recovery of a judgment is a prerequisite to the imposition of administrative sanctions, the
General Services Administration may refer debts for litigation even though termination of collection activity may otherwise be appropriate.
§ 105-55.030
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.
(a) Before discharging a delinquent debt (also referred to as a close out of the debt), the General Services Administration (GSA) will take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), including, as applicable, administrative offset, tax refund offset, Federal salary offset, referral to Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers or private collection contractors, credit bureau reporting, wage garnishment, litigation, and foreclosure. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this part. When GSA discharges a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, GSA will make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted before discharging a debt. Before discharging a debt, GSA will terminate debt collection action.
(b) Section 3711(i), Title 31, United States Code, requires GSA to sell a delinquent non-tax debt upon termination of collection action if the Secretary determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action (including the sale of a delinquent debt), GSA may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.
(c) Upon discharge of a debt of more than $600, GSA must report the discharge to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. GSA may request Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers to file such a discharge report to the IRS on the Agency's behalf.
(d) When discharging a debt, GSA will request the GSA Office of General Counsel to release any liens of record securing the debt.
§ 105-55.031
Prompt referral to the Department of Justice.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will promptly refer to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with § 105-55.009 and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with §§ 105-55.027 and 105-55.028. GSA may refer those debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the Agency. Debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, will be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at DOJ, Washington, DC. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000, or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, will be referred to DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the Claims Collection Litigation Report instructions. Debts will be referred as early as possible, consistent with aggressive GSA collection activity and the observance of the standards contained in this part, and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. GSA will make every effort to refer delinquent debts to DOJ for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, GSA will make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to DOJ for litigation within one year from the date the loan was presented to the Agency for payment or re-insurance.
(b) DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to it pursuant to this section. GSA, as the referring agency, will immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt at the time of the referral of that debt to DOJ. GSA will advise DOJ of the collection activities which have been utilized to date, and their result. GSA will
refrain from having any contact with the debtor and will direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to DOJ, except as otherwise agreed between GSA and DOJ. GSA will immediately notify DOJ of any payments credited by the Agency to the debtor's account after referral of a debt under this section. DOJ will notify GSA of any payments it receives from the debtor.
§ 105-55.032
Claims Collection Litigation Report.
(a) Unless excepted by the Department of Justice (DOJ), the General Services Administration (GSA) will complete the Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR) (see § 105-55.019(b)), accompanied by a signed Certificate of Indebtedness, to refer all administratively uncollectible claims to DOJ for litigation. GSA will complete all sections of the CCLR appropriate to each claim as required by the CCLR instructions and furnish such other information as may be required in specific cases.
(b) GSA will indicate clearly on the CCLR the actions DOJ should take with respect to the referred claim. The CCLR permits the Agency to indicate specifically any of a number of litigative activities which DOJ may pursue, including enforced collection, judgment lien only, renew judgment lien only, renew judgment lien and enforce collection, program enforcement, foreclosure only, and foreclosure and deficiency judgment.
(c) GSA also will use the CCLR to refer claims to DOJ to obtain approval of any proposals to compromise the claims or to suspend or terminate Agency collection activity.
§ 105-55.033
Preservation of evidence.
The General Services Administration (GSA) will take care to preserve all files and records that may be needed by the Department of Justice (DOJ) to prove their claims in court. GSA ordinarily will include certified copies of the documents that form the basis for the claim in the packages referring their claims to DOJ for litigation. GSA will provide originals of such documents immediately upon request by DOJ.
§ 105-55.034
Minimum amount of referrals to the Department of Justice.
(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will not refer for litigation claims of less than $2,500, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or such other amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe. The Department of Justice (DOJ) will notify GSA if the Attorney General changes this minimum amount.
(b) GSA will not refer claims of less than the minimum amount unless—
(1) Litigation to collect such smaller claims is important to ensure compliance with the Agency's policies or programs;
(2) The claim is being referred solely for the purpose of securing a judgment against the debtor, which will be filed as a lien against the debtor's property pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 3201 and returned to GSA for enforcement; or
(3) The debtor has the clear ability to pay the claim and the Government effectively can enforce payment, with due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.
(c) GSA will consult with the Financial Litigation Staff of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys in DOJ prior to referring claims valued at less than the minimum amount.
Pt. 105-56

# PART 105-56—SALARY OFFSET FOR INDEBTEDNESS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES TO THE UNITED STATES

# Subpart A—Salary Offset of General Services Administration Employees
Sec.
105-56.001
Scope.
105-56.002
Excluded debts or claims.
105-56.003
Definitions.
105-56.004
Pre-offset notice.
105-56.005
Employee response.
105-56.006
Petition for pre-offset hearing.
105-56.007
Pre-offset oral hearing.
105-56.008
Pre-offset paper hearing.
105-56.009
Written decision.
105-56.010
Deductions.
105-56.011
Non-waiver of rights.
105-56.012
Refunds.
105-56.013
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.

# Subpart B—Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) Procedures—GSA as Creditor Agency
105-56.014
Purpose and scope.
105-56.015
Definitions.
105-56.016
GSA participation.
105-56.017
Centralized salary offset computer match.
105-56.018
Salary offset.
105-56.019
Offset amount.
105-56.020
Priorities.
105-56.021
Notice.
105-56.022
Fees.
105-56.023
Disposition of amounts collected.

# Subpart C—Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) Procedures—GSA as Paying Agency
105-56.024
Purpose and scope.
105-56.025
Definitions.
105-56.026
GSA participation.
105-56.027
Centralized salary offset computer match.
105-56.028
Salary offset.
105-56.029
Offset amount.
105-56.030
Priorities.
105-56.031
Notice.
105-56.032
Fees.
105-56.033
Disposition of amounts collected.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 U.S.C. 3711; 31 U.S.C. 3716; 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; 31 CFR part 5; 31 CFR 285.7; 31 CFR parts 900-904.

# Source:
68 FR 68752, Dec. 10, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Salary Offset of General Services Administration Employees
§ 105-56.001
Scope.
(a) This subpart covers internal GSA collections under 5 U.S.C. 5514. It applies when certain debts to the United States are recovered by administrative offset from the disposable pay of a GSA employee or a cross-serviced agency employee, except in situations where the employee consents to the recovery.
(b) The collection of any amount under this subpart will be in accordance with the standards promulgated pursuant to the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA), 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.,
and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR parts 900 through 904 as amended, or in accordance with any other statutory authority for the collection of claims of the United States or any Federal agency.
§ 105-56.002
Excluded debts or claims.
This subpart does not apply to the following:
(a) Debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), or the tariff laws of the United States.
(b) Any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. Debt collection procedures under other statutory authorities, however, must be consistent with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards, defined at paragraph (h) of § 105-56.003.
(c) An employee election of coverage or of a change of coverage under a Federal benefits program that requires periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. However, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over more than four pay periods, the procedures under § 105-56.004 of this subpart will apply.
(d) Routine adjustment in pay or allowances that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of the adjustment, or as soon after as possible, the employee is provided written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment.
(e) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of the adjustment, or as soon after as possible, the employee is given written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting the adjustment.
(f) Debts or claims arising from the accrual of unpaid Health Benefits Insurance (HBI) premiums as the result of an employee's election to continue health insurance coverage during periods of leave without pay (LWOP), or when pay is insufficient to cover premiums. Debt collection procedures for unpaid HBI are covered under 5 CFR part 890, subpart E.
§ 105-56.003
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a claim.
(b)
Agency
means a department, agency or sub-agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal government, including government corporations.
(c)
Business day
means Monday through Friday, excluding Federal legal holidays. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Federal legal holiday.
(d)
Creditor agency
means any agency that is owed a debt, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
(e)
Cross-serviced agency
means an arrangement between GSA and another agency whereby GSA provides financial support services to the other agency on a reimbursable basis. Financial support services can range from simply providing computer and software timesharing services to full-service administrative processing.
(f)
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's Federal pay after required deductions for Federal, State and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; Federal retirement programs, including contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP); premiums for life (excluding amounts deducted for supplemental coverage) and health insurance benefits; Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax levies; and such other deductions that may be required by law to be withheld.
(g)
Employee
means any individual employed by GSA or a cross-serviced agency of the executive, legislative, or judicial branches of the Federal Government, including Government corporations.
(h)
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Department of Justice and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
(i)
Financial hardship
means an inability to meet basic living expenses for goods and services necessary for the survival of the debtor and his or her spouse and dependents.
(j) For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, unless otherwise stated, the term “Administrator” refers to the Administrator of General Services or the Administrator's delegate.
(k) For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by GSA to be due the United States from an employee of GSA or a cross-serviced agency from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures and all other similar sources, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms “claim” and “debt” include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by an employee to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(l) For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, unless otherwise stated, the terms “GSA” and “Agency” are synonymous and interchangeable.
(m)
Hearing official
means a Board Judge of the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA).
(n)
Pay
means basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an individual not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay.
(o)
Pre-offset hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence concerning the existence and/or amount of a debt, and/or the terms of a repayment schedule, provided such repayment schedule is established other than by a
written agreement entered into pursuant to this subpart. If the hearing official determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved solely by review of the written record, such as when the validity of the debt turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, an oral hearing may be provided.
(p)
Program official
means a supervisor or management official of the employee's service, staff office, cross-serviced agency, or other designated Agency officials.
(q)
Reconsideration
means a request by the employee to have a secondary review by GSA of the existence and/or amount of the debt, and/or the proposed offset schedule.
(r)
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
(s)
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt or debt-related charge as permitted or required by law.
[68 FR 68752, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-56.004
Pre-offset notice.
An employee must be given written notice from the appropriate program official at least 30 days in advance of initiating a deduction from disposable pay informing him or her of—
(a) The nature, origin and amount of the indebtedness determined by GSA or a cross-serviced agency to be due;
(b) The intention of GSA to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from the employee's current disposable pay and other eligible payments;
(c) The amount (stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay), frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(d) GSA's policy concerning how interest, penalties, and administrative costs are assessed (see 41 CFR part 105-55.017), including a statement that such assessments will be made unless excused under 31 U.S.C. 3717(h) and 31 CFR 901.9(g) and (h);
(e) The employee's right to inspect and copy GSA records relating to the debt, if records of the debt are not attached to the notice, or if the employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, the right to receive a copy of such records. Any costs associated with copying the records for the debtor will be borne by the debtor. The debtor must give a minimum of three (3) business days notice in advance to GSA of the date on which he or she intends to inspect and copy the records involved;
(f) A demand for repayment providing for an opportunity, under terms agreeable to GSA, for the employee to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt by offset or to enter into a written repayment agreement of the debt in lieu of offset;
(g) The employee's right to request a waiver (see § 105-56.005(b) of this subpart);
(h) The employee's right to request reconsideration by the Agency of the existence and/or amount of the debt, and/or the proposed offset schedule;
(i) The employee's right to a pre-offset hearing conducted by a hearing official, arranged by the appropriate program official, if a request is filed as prescribed by § 105-56.006 of this subpart;
(j) The method and time period for requesting a hearing, including a statement that the timely filing of a request for hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(k) The issuance of a final decision on the hearing, if requested, at the earliest practicable date, but no later than 60 days after the request for hearing is filed, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(l) The risk that any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to—
(1) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(2) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3731, or any other applicable statutory authority; or
(3) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002, or any other applicable statutory authority;
(m) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(n) The employee's right to a prompt refund if amounts paid or deducted are later waived or found not owed, unless otherwise provided by law (see § 105-56.012 of this subpart);
(o) The specific address to which all correspondence must be directed regarding the debt.
§ 105-56.005
Employee response.
(a)
Voluntary repayment agreement.
An employee may submit a request to the appropriate program official who signed the pre-offset notice to enter into a written repayment agreement of the debt in lieu of offset. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 105-56.004 of this subpart. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the appropriate program official making the notice, and a signed copy must be sent to the appropriate Finance Center serving the program activity. Acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the Agency. An employee who enters into such an agreement may, nevertheless, seek a waiver under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Waiver.
An employee may submit a signed waiver request of overpayment of pay or allowances (e.g., 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716) to the GSA National Payroll Center (NPC). When an employee requests waiver consideration, further collection on the debt may be suspended until a final administrative decision is made on the waiver request. During the period of any suspension, interest, penalties and administrative charges may be held in abeyance. GSA will not duplicate, for purposes of salary offset, any of the notices/procedures already provided the debtor prior to a request for waiver.
(c)
Reconsideration.
(1) An employee may seek a reconsideration of GSA's determination regarding the existence and/or amount of the debt. The request must be submitted to the appropriate program official indicated in the pre-offset notice, within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 105-56.004 of this subpart. Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit a detailed statement of reasons for reconsideration that must be accompanied by supporting documentation.
(2) An employee may request a reconsideration of the proposed offset schedule. The request must be submitted to the appropriate program official indicated in the pre-offset notice, within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 105-56.004 of this subpart. Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit an alternative repayment schedule accompanied by a detailed statement, supported by documentation, evidencing financial hardship resulting from GSA's proposed schedule. Acceptance of the request is at GSA's discretion. GSA will notify the employee in writing of its decision concerning the request to reduce the rate of an involuntary deduction.
§ 105-56.006
Petition for pre-offset hearing.
(a) The employee may request a pre-offset hearing by filing a written petition with the appropriate program official indicated in the pre-offset notice, within 15 days of receipt of the written notice. The petition must state why the employee believes GSA's determination concerning the existence and/or amount of the debt is in error, set forth any objections to the involuntary repayment schedule, and, if the employee is seeking an oral hearing, set forth reasons for an oral hearing. The timely filing of a petition will suspend the commencement of collection proceedings.
(b) The employee's petition or statement must be signed and dated by the employee.
(c) Petitions for hearing made after the expiration of the 15-day period may be accepted if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit.
(d) If the employee timely requests a pre-offset hearing or the timeliness is waived, the appropriate program official must—
(1) Promptly notify the CBCA and arrange for a hearing official (see § 105-56.003(m) of this subpart). The hearing official will notify the employee whether he or she may have an oral or a “paper hearing,” i.e., a review on the written record (see 31 CFR 901.3(e)); and
(2) Provide the hearing official with a copy of all records on which the determination of the debt and any involuntary repayment schedule are based.
(e) If an oral hearing is to be held, the hearing official will notify the appropriate program official and the employee of the date, time, and location of the hearing. The debtor may choose to have the hearing conducted in the hearing official's office located at 1800 M Street NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036, at another location designated by the hearing official, or by telephone. The debtor and any witnesses are responsible for any personal expenses incurred to arrive at a hearing official's office or other designated location (see § 105-56.007(c)). All telephonic charges incurred during a hearing will be the responsibility of GSA.
(f) If the employee later elects to have the hearing based only on the written submissions, notification must be given to the hearing official and the appropriate program official at least 3 days before the date of the oral hearing. The hearing official may waive the 3-day requirement for good cause.
(g) If either party, without good cause as determined by the hearing official, does not appear at a scheduled oral hearing, the hearing official will make a determination on the claim which takes into account that party's position as presented in writing only.
[68 FR 68752, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-56.007
Pre-offset oral hearing.
(a) The Agency, represented by the appropriate program official or a representative of the Office of General Counsel, and the employee, and/or his or her representative, will explain their case in the form of an oral presentation with reference to the documentation submitted. The employee may testify on his or her own behalf, subject to cross-examination. Other witnesses may be called to testify when the hearing official determines the testimony to be relevant and not redundant. All witnesses will testify under oath, with the oath having been administered by the hearing official. A written transcript of the hearing will be kept and made available to either party in the event of an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706. Arrangements for the taking of the transcript will be made by the hearing official, and all charges associated with the taking of the transcript will be the responsibility of GSA.
(b) The hearing official will—
(1) Conduct a fair and impartial hearing; and
(2) Preside over the course of the hearing, maintain decorum, and avoid delay in the disposition of the hearing.
(c) The employee may represent himself or herself or may be represented by another person of his or her choice at the hearing. GSA will not compensate the employee for representation expenses, including hourly fees for attorneys, travel expenses, and costs for reproducing documents.
(d) Oral hearings are open to the public. However, the hearing official may close all or any portion of the hearing when doing so is in the best interests of the employee or the Agency.
(e) Oral hearings may be conducted by telephone at the request of the employee. All telephonic charges incurred during a hearing will be the responsibility of GSA.
(f) The hearing official may request written submissions and documentation from the employee and the Agency, in addition to considering evidence offered at the hearing.
§ 105-56.008
Pre-offset paper hearing.
If a hearing is to be held only upon written submissions, the hearing official will issue a decision based upon the record and responses submitted by both the Agency and the employee. See § 105-56.006 of this subpart. If either party, without good cause as determined by the hearing official, does not provide written submissions and documentation requested by the hearing official, the hearing official will make a determination on the claim without reference to such submissions and documentation.
§ 105-56.009
Written decision.
(a) Within 60 days of the employee's filing of a petition for a pre-offset hearing, the hearing official will issue a written decision setting forth—
(1) The facts supporting the nature and origin of the debt;
(2) The hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions as to the employee's or Agency's grounds;
(3) The amount and validity of the debt; and
(4) The repayment schedule, if applicable.
(b) The hearing official's decision will be the final Agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
§ 105-56.010
Deductions.
(a)
When deductions may begin.
Deductions may begin upon the issuance of an Agency decision on a request for reconsideration or waiver (except as provided in § 105-56.005(b) of this subpart) or the issuance of a decision in a pre-offset hearing. In no event will deductions begin sooner than thirty days from the date of the notice letter. If the employee filed a petition for hearing with the appropriate program official before the expiration of the period provided for in § 105-56.006 of this subpart, then deductions will begin after the hearing official has provided the employee with a hearing and the final written decision. The appropriate program official will coordinate with the National Payroll Center to begin offset in accordance with the final written decision.
(b)
Retired or separated employees.
If the employee retires, resigns, or is terminated before collection of the indebtedness is completed, the remaining indebtedness will be offset from any subsequent payments of any nature. If the debt cannot be satisfied from subsequent payments, then the debt will be collected according to the procedures for administrative offset pursuant to § 105-55.011 of this subpart.
(c)
Types of collection.
A debt may be collected in one lump sum or in installments. Collection will be by lump sum unless the employee is able to demonstrate to the program official who signed the notice letter that he or she is financially unable to pay in one lump sum. In these cases, collection will be by installment deductions. Involuntary deductions from pay may not exceed 15 percent of disposable pay.
(d)
Methods of collection.
If the debt cannot be collected in one lump sum, the debt will be collected by deductions at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account, unless the employee and the appropriate program official agree to an alternative repayment schedule. The alternative arrangement must be in writing and signed by both the employee and the appropriate program official.
(1)
Installment deductions.
Installment deductions will be made over the shortest period possible. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted for any period will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. The installment payment normally will be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three (3) years or less, unless circumstances warrant a longer period. Installment payments of less than $100 per pay period will be accepted only in the most unusual circumstances.
(2)
Sources of deductions.
GSA will make salary deductions only from basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay.
(e)
Non-Salary payments.
The receipt of collections from salary offsets does not preclude GSA from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of other Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States. GSA will pursue, when appropriate, such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with salary offset.
(f)
Interest, penalties and administrative costs.
Interest, penalties and administrative costs on debts under this subpart will be assessed according to the provisions of § 105-55.016 of this subpart.
§ 105-56.011
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt being collected under 5 U.S.C. 5514 will not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
§ 105-56.012
Refunds.
(a) GSA will promptly refund to the employee any amounts offset under these regulations when a debt is waived or otherwise found not owing the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation), or GSA is directed by an administrative or judicial order to refund amounts deducted from the employee's current pay or withheld from non-salary payments.
(b) Unless required by Federal law or contract, refunds under this subpart will not bear interest.
§ 105-56.013
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
GSA participates in the Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) program (see subparts B and C of this part). In those instances when CSO cannot be utilized (i.e., when another agency does not participate in the program), the following procedures apply:
(a)
When GSA is the creditor agency.
When GSA is owed a debt by an employee of another agency, GSA will provide the paying agency with a written certification that the debtor owes GSA a debt and that GSA has complied with these regulations. This certification will include the amount and basis of the debt, the due date of the payment, or the beginning date of installment payments, if any.
(b)
When another agency is the creditor agency.
(1) GSA may use salary offset against one of its employees or cross-serviced agency employees who is indebted to another agency if requested to do so by that agency. Any such request must be accompanied by a certification from the requesting agency that the person owes the debt, the amount of the debt and that the employee has been given the procedural rights required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.
(2) The creditor agency must advise GSA of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the beginning date of the first installment if it is not the next established pay period.
(3) If GSA receives an improperly completed request, the creditor agency will be requested to supply the required information before any salary offset begins.
(4) If the claim procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been properly completed, deductions will begin on the next established pay period unless a different period is requested by the creditor agency.
(5) GSA will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determinations with respect to the amount and/or validity of the debt as stated in the debt claim certification.
(6) If the employee begins separation action before GSA collects the total debt due the creditor agency, the following actions will be taken:
(i) When possible, the balance owed the creditor agency will be liquidated from subsequent payments of any nature due the employee from GSA in accordance with 41 CFR part 105-55.011;
(ii) If the total amount of the debt cannot be recovered, GSA will certify the total amount collected to the creditor agency and the employee;
(iii) If GSA is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, such information will be provided to the creditor agency so a certified claim can be made against the payments.
(7) If the employee transfers to another Federal agency before GSA collects the total amount due the creditor agency, GSA will certify the total amount collected to the creditor agency and the employee. It is the responsibility of the creditor agency to ensure that collection action is resumed by the new employing agency.

# Subpart B—Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) Procedures—GSA as Creditor Agency
§ 105-56.014
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart establishes procedures for the offset of Federal salary payments, through the Financial Management Service's (FMS) administrative offset program, to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal Government. This process is known as centralized salary offset. Rules issued by the Office of Personnel Management contain the requirements Federal agencies must follow prior to conducting salary offset and the procedures for requesting offsets directly from a paying agency. See 5 CFR parts 550.1101 through 550.1108.
(b) This subpart implements the requirement under 5 U.S.C. 5514 (a)(1) that all Federal agencies, using a process known as centralized salary offset computer matching, identify Federal employees who owe delinquent non-tax debt to the United States. Centralized salary offset computer matching is the computerized comparison of delinquent debt records with records of Federal employees. The purpose of centralized salary offset computer matching is to identify those debtors whose Federal salaries should be offset to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal Government.
(c) This subpart specifies the delinquent debt records and Federal employee records that must be included in the salary offset matching process. For purposes of this subpart, delinquent debt records consist of the debt information submitted to FMS for purposes of administrative offset as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Since GSA submits debts to FMS for purposes of administrative offset, the Agency is not required to submit duplicate information for purposes of centralized salary offset computer matching under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1) and this subpart.
(d) An interagency consortium was established to implement centralized salary offset computer matching on a Governmentwide basis as required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1). Federal employee records consist of records of Federal salary payments disbursed by members of the consortium.
(e) The receipt of collections from salary offsets does not preclude GSA from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of other Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States. GSA will pursue, when appropriate, such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with salary offset.
§ 105-56.015
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
(b)
Agency
means a department, agency or sub-agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal government, including government corporations.
(c)
Centralized salary offset computer matching
means the computerized comparison of Federal employee records with delinquent debt records to identify Federal employees who owe such debts.
(d)
Consortium
means an interagency group established by the Secretary of the Treasury to implement centralized salary offset computer matching. The group includes all agencies that disburse Federal salary payments.
(e)
Creditor agency
means any agency that is owed a debt, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
(f)
Debt
means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, including debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this subpart, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
).
(g)
Delinquent debt record
means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt, submitted by GSA to FMS for purposes of administrative offset (including salary offset) in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C.
3716(c)(6) and applicable regulations. Debt information includes the amount and type of debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
(h)
Disbursing official
means an officer or employee designated to disburse Federal salary payments. This includes all disbursing officials of Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, any government corporation, and any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary.
(i)
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's Federal pay after required deductions for Federal, State and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; Federal retirement programs, including contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP); premiums for life (excluding amounts deducted for supplemental coverage) and health insurance benefits; Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax levies; and such other deductions that are required by law to be withheld.
(j)
Federal employee
means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves), employees of the United States Postal Service, and seasonal and temporary employees.
(k)
Federal employee records
means records of Federal salary payments that a paying agency has certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
(l)
FMS
means the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
(m) For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, unless otherwise stated, the term “Administrator” refers to the Administrator of General Services or the Administrator's delegate.
(n) For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, unless otherwise stated, the terms “GSA” and “Agency” are synonymous and interchangeable.
(o)
Pay
means basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an individual not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay.
(p)
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the Federal employee who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his or her current pay. A paying agency also includes an agency that performs payroll services on behalf of the employing agency.
(q)
Salary offset
means administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
(r)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate.
(s)
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is the individual's social security number.
§ 105-56.016
GSA participation.
(a) As required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), GSA must participate at least annually in centralized salary offset computer matching. To meet this requirement, GSA will notify FMS of all past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for more than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset, as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Additionally, GSA may notify FMS of past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for less than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset.
(b) Prior to submitting a debt to FMS for purposes of collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, GSA will provide written certification to FMS that—
(1) The debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted to FMS and that GSA will ensure that collections (other than collections through offset) are properly credited to the debt;
(2) Except in the case of a judgment debt or as otherwise allowed by law, the debt is referred for offset within ten years after GSA's right of action accrues;
(3) GSA has complied with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (administrative offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring that GSA provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a review of the debt; and
(4) GSA has complied with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring that GSA provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a hearing.
(c) FMS may waive the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section as a prerequisite to submitting the debt to FMS. If FMS waives the certification requirement, before an offset occurs, GSA will provide the Federal employee with the notices and opportunities for a hearing as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations, and will certify to FMS that the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations have been met.
(d) GSA will notify FMS immediately of any payments credited by GSA to the debtor's account, other than credits for amounts collected by offset, after submission of the debt to FMS. GSA will notify FMS once the debt is paid in its entirety. GSA will also notify FMS immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the Agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
§ 105-56.017
Centralized salary offset computer match.
(a) Delinquent debt records will be compared with Federal employee records maintained by members of the consortium or paying agencies. The records will be compared to identify Federal employees who owe delinquent debts for purposes of collecting the debt by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of a Federal employee are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of a debtor.
(b) As authorized by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), FMS, under a delegation of authority from the Secretary, has waived certain requirements of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, for administrative offset, including salary offset, upon written certification by the Administrator, or the Administrator's delegate, that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. Specifically, FMS has waived the requirements for a computer matching agreement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and for post-match notice and verification contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(p). GSA will provide certification in accordance with the provisions of § 105-56.016(b)(3) of this subpart.
§ 105-56.018
Salary offset.
When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, as required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), the disbursing official will offset the Federal employee's salary payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the employee. Alternatively, the paying agency, on behalf of the disbursing official, may deduct the amount of the offset from an employee's disposable pay before the employee's salary payment is certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
§ 105-56.019
Offset amount.
(a) The minimum dollar amount referred for offset under this subpart is $100.
(b) The amount offset from a salary payment under this subpart will be the lesser of—
(1) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs; or
(2) Up to 15 percent of the debtor's disposable pay.
(c) Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and GSA.
(d) Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of GSA.
§ 105-56.020
Priorities.
(a) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
) takes precedence over other deductions under this subpart.
(b) When a salary payment may be reduced to collect more than one debt, amounts offset under this subpart will be applied to a debt only after amounts offset have been applied to satisfy past due child support debts assigned to a State pursuant to the Social Security
Act under 42 U.S.C. 602(a)(26) or 671(a)(17).
§ 105-56.021
Notice.
(a) Before offsetting a salary payment, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the Federal employee in writing of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
(b)(1) When an offset occurs under this subpart, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the Federal employee in writing that an offset has occurred including—
(i) A description of the payment and the amount of offset taken;
(ii) The identity of GSA as the creditor agency requesting the offset; and
(iii) A contact point within GSA that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(2) The information described in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section does not need to be provided to the Federal employee when the offset occurs if such information was included in a prior notice from the disbursing official or paying agency.
(c) The disbursing official will advise GSA of the names, mailing addresses, and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and of the amounts collected from each debtor for GSA. The disbursing official will not advise GSA of the source of payment from which the amounts were collected.
§ 105-56.022
Fees.
Agencies that perform centralized salary offset computer matching services may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost for such services. In addition, FMS, or a paying agency acting on behalf of FMS, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the administrative offset program. FMS may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill GSA. Fees charged for offset will be based on actual administrative offsets completed and may be added to the debt as an administrative cost.
§ 105-56.023
Disposition of amounts collected.
(a) The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under § 105-56.022 of this subpart, to GSA.
(b) If an erroneous offset payment is made to GSA, the disbursing official will notify GSA that an erroneous offset payment has been made.
(1) The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to GSA; or
(2) Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, GSA will promptly return to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to GSA have been paid).
(i) The disbursing official and GSA will adjust the debtor records appropriately.
(ii) Unless required by Federal law or contract, refunds under this subpart will not bear interest.

# Subpart C—Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) Procedures—GSA as Paying Agency
§ 105-56.024
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart establishes procedures for the offset of Federal salary payments, through the Financial Management Service's (FMS) administrative offset program, to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal Government. This process is known as salary offset. Rules issued by the Office of Personnel Management contain the requirements Federal agencies must follow prior to conducting salary offset and the procedures for requesting offsets directly from a paying agency. See 5 CFR parts 550.1101 through 550.1108.
(b) This subpart implements the requirement under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1) that all Federal agencies, using a process known as centralized salary offset computer matching, identify Federal employees who owe delinquent non-tax debt to the United States. Centralized salary offset computer matching is the computerized comparison of delinquent debt records with records of Federal
employees. The purpose of centralized salary offset computer matching is to identify those debtors whose Federal salaries should be offset to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal Government.
(c) This subpart specifies the delinquent debt records and Federal employee records that must be included in the salary offset matching process. For purposes of this subpart, delinquent debt records consist of the debt information submitted to FMS for purposes of administrative offset as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6).
(d) An interagency consortium was established to implement centralized salary offset computer matching on a Governmentwide basis as required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1). Federal employee records consist of records of Federal salary payments disbursed by members of the consortium.
§ 105-56.025
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
(b)
Agency
means a department, agency or sub-agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including Government corporations.
(c)
Centralized salary offset computer matching
means the computerized comparison of Federal employee records with delinquent debt records to identify Federal employees who owe such debts.
(d)
Consortium
means an interagency group established by the Secretary of the Treasury to implement centralized salary offset computer matching. The group includes all agencies that disburse Federal salary payments.
(e)
Creditor agency
means any agency that is owed a debt, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
(f)
Cross-serviced agency
means an arrangement between GSA and another agency whereby GSA provides financial support services to the other agency on a reimbursable basis. Financial support services can range from simply providing computer and software timesharing services to full-service administrative processing.
(g)
Debt
means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by a person, including debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this subpart, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
).
(h)
Delinquent debt record
means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt, submitted to GSA by FMS for purposes of administrative offset (including salary offset) in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6) and applicable regulations. Debt information includes the amount and type of debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
(i)
Disbursing official
means an officer or employee designated to disburse Federal salary payments. This includes all disbursing officials of Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, any government corporation, and any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary.
(j)
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's Federal pay after required deductions for Federal, State and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; Federal retirement programs, including contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP); premiums for life (excluding amounts deducted for supplemental coverage) and health insurance benefits; Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax levies; and such other deductions that are required by law to be withheld.
(k)
Employee
means any individual employed by GSA or a cross-serviced agency of the executive, legislative, or judicial branches of the Federal Government, including Government corporations.
(l)
Federal employee records
means records of Federal salary payments that a paying agency has certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
(m)
FMS
means the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
(n)
Pay
means basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an individual not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay.
(o)
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the Federal employee who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his or her current pay. A paying agency also includes an agency that performs payroll services on behalf of the employing agency.
(p)
Salary offset
means administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
(q)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate.
(r)
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is the individual's social security number.
§ 105-56.026
GSA participation.
(a) As required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), creditor agencies must participate at least annually in centralized salary offset computer matching. To meet this requirement, creditor agencies will notify FMS of all past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for more than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset, as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Additionally, creditor agencies may notify FMS of past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for less than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset.
(b) Prior to submitting a debt to FMS for purposes of collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, creditor agencies will provide written certification to FMS that—
(1) The debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted to FMS and that the creditor agency will ensure that collections (other than collections through offset) are properly credited to the debt;
(2) Except in the case of a judgment debt or as otherwise allowed by law, the debt is referred for offset within ten years after the creditor agency's right of action accrues;
(3) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (administrative offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring the creditor agency to provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a review of the debt; and
(4) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring the creditor agency to provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a hearing.
(c) FMS may waive the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section as a prerequisite to submitting the debt to FMS. If FMS waives the certification requirement, before an offset occurs, the creditor agency will provide the Federal employee with the notices and opportunities for a hearing as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations, and will certify to FMS that the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations have been met.
(d) The creditor agency will notify FMS immediately of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account, other than credits for amounts collected by offset, after submission of the debt to FMS. The creditor agency will notify FMS once the debt is paid in its entirety. The creditor agency will also notify FMS immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
§ 105-56.027
Centralized salary offset computer match.
(a) Delinquent debt records will be compared with Federal employee records maintained by members of the consortium or paying agencies. The records will be compared to identify Federal employees who owe delinquent debts for purposes of collecting the debt by administrative offset. A match
will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of a Federal employee are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of a debtor.
(b) As authorized by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), FMS, under a delegation of authority from the Secretary, has waived certain requirements of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, for administrative offset, including salary offset, upon written certification by the creditor agency, that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. Specifically, FMS has waived the requirements for a computer matching agreement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and for post-match notice and verification contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(p).
§ 105-56.028
Salary offset.
When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, as required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), the disbursing official will offset the GSA employee's or cross-serviced agency employee's salary payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the employee. Alternatively, the GSA National Payroll Center, serving as the paying agency, on behalf of the disbursing official, may deduct the amount of the offset from an employee's disposable pay before the employee's salary payment is certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
§ 105-56.029
Offset amount.
(a) The minimum dollar amount of salary offset under this subpart is $100.
(b) The amount offset from a salary payment under this subpart will be the lesser of—
(1) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs; or
(2) Up to 15 percent of the debtor's disposable pay.
(c) Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the creditor agency.
(d) Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
§ 105-56.030
Priorities.
GSA, acting as the paying agency, on behalf of the disbursing official, will apply the order of precedence when processing debts identified by the centralized salary offset computer match program as follows:
(a) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
) takes precedence over other deductions under this subpart.
(b) When a salary payment may be reduced to collect more than one debt, amounts offset under this subpart will be applied to a debt only after amounts offset have been applied to satisfy past due child support debts assigned to a State pursuant to the Social Security Act under 42 U.S.C. 602(a)(26) or 671(a)(17).
§ 105-56.031
Notice.
(a) The disbursing official will provide GSA an electronic list of the names, mailing addresses, and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt are due other Federal agencies. The disbursing official will identify the creditor agency name and a point of contact that will handle concerns regarding the debt.
(b) Before offsetting a salary payment, the GSA National Payroll Center, acting as the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the debtor in writing of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
(c)(1) When an offset occurs under this subpart, the disbursing official, or the GSA National Payroll Center on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the debtor in writing that an offset has occurred including—
(i) A description of the payment and the amount of offset taken;
(ii) The identity of the creditor agency identified by the disbursing official requesting the offset; and
(iii) A contact point at the creditor agency identified by the disbursing official that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(2) The information described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (c)(1)(iii) of
this section does not need to be provided to the debtor when the offset occurs if such information was included in a prior notice from the disbursing official or the creditor agency.
§ 105-56.032
Fees.
GSA, while performing centralized salary offset computer matching services, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost for such services. In addition, FMS, or GSA acting as the paying agency on behalf of FMS, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the administrative offset program. FMS may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the creditor agency. Fees charged for offset will be based on actual administrative offsets completed.
§ 105-56.033
Disposition of amounts collected.
(a) The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under § 105-56.032 of this subpart, to the creditor agency.
(b) If an erroneous offset payment is made to the creditor agency, the disbursing official will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous offset payment has been made.
(1) The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the creditor agency; or
(2) Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the creditor agency will promptly return to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to the creditor agency have been paid). The disbursing official and the creditor agency will adjust the debtor records appropriately.
Pt. 105-57

# PART 105-57—ADMINISTRATION WAGE GARNISHMENT
Sec.
105-57.001
Purpose, authority and scope.
105-57.002
Definitions.
105-57.003
General rule.
105-57.004
Notice requirements.
105-57.005
Hearing.
105-57.006
Wage garnishment order.
105-57.007
Certification by employer.
105-57.008
Amounts withheld.
105-57.009
Exclusions from garnishment.
105-57.010
Financial hardship.
105-57.011
Ending garnishment.
105-57.012
Actions prohibited by the employer.
105-57.013
Refunds.
105-57.014
Right of action.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552-553, 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11.

# Source:
68 FR 68761, Dec. 10, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-57.001
Purpose, authority and scope.
(a) This part provides standards and procedures for GSA to collect money from a debtor's disposable pay by means of administrative wage garnishment to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States.
(b) These standards and procedures are authorized under the wage garnishment provisions of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, codified at 31 U.S.C. 3720D, and Department of the Treasury Wage Garnishment Regulations at 31 CFR 285.11.
(c)
Scope.
(1) This part applies to any GSA program that gives rise to a delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States and that pursues recovery of such debt.
(2) This part will apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.
(3) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with applicable law. See, for example, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this part does not preclude GSA from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States.
GSA may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment.
(5) This part does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and
other applicable laws. GSA standards and procedures for offsetting Federal wage payments are stated in 41 CFR part 105-56.
(6) Nothing in this part requires GSA to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
§ 105-57.002
Definitions.
(a)
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a claim.
(b)
Business day
means Monday through Friday, excluding Federal legal holidays. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Federal legal holiday.
(c)
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday.
(d)
Debtor
means an individual who owes a delinquent non-tax debt to the United States.
(e)
“Delinquent” or “past-due” non-tax debt
means any non-tax debt that has not been paid by the date specified in GSA's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
(f)
Disposable pay
means that part of the debtor's compensation (including, but not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from an employer remaining after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. For purposes of this part, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld pursuant to a court order.
(g)
Employer
means a person or entity that employs the services of others and that pays their wages or salaries. The term employer includes, but is not limited to, State and local Governments, but does not include an agency of the Federal Government as defined by 31 CFR 285.11(c).
(h)
Evidence of service
means information retained by GSA indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of submission of the document, and to whom the document is being submitted. Evidence of service may be retained electronically or otherwise, so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
(i)
Financial hardship
means an inability to meet basic living expenses for goods and services necessary for the survival of the debtor and his or her spouse and dependents. See § 105-57.010 of this part.
(j) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the term “Administrator” refers to the Administrator of General Services or the Administrator's delegate.
(k) For the purposes of the standards in this part, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable.
They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by GSA to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency, from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures and all other similar sources, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms “claim” and “debt” include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(l) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the terms “GSA” and “Agency” are synonymous and interchangeable.
(m) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
(n)
Garnishment
means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to GSA in satisfaction of a withholding order.
(o)
Hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence concerning the existence and/or amount of a debt, and/or the terms of a repayment schedule, provided such repayment schedule is established other than by a written agreement entered into pursuant to this part. If the hearing official determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved solely by review of the written record, such as when the validity of the debt turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, an oral hearing may be provided.
(p)
Hearing official
means a Board Judge of the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA).
(q)
Withholding order
means “Wage Garnishment Order (SF 329B)”, issued by GSA. For purposes of this part, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.”
(r) In this part, words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words signifying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice versa. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude matters not listed but do include matters that are in the same general class.
[68 FR 68761, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-57.003
General rule.
Whenever GSA determines a delinquent debt is owed by an individual, the Agency may initiate administrative proceedings to garnish the wages of the delinquent debtor.
§ 105-57.004
Notice requirements.
(a) At least 30 days before the initiation of garnishment proceedings, GSA will send, by first class mail, overnight delivery service, or hand delivery to the debtor's last known address a written notice informing the debtor of—
(1) The nature and amount of the debt;
(2) The intention of GSA to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from pay until the debt and all accumulated interest, penalties and administrative costs are paid in full; and
(3) The debtor's rights, including those set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, and the time frame within which the debtor may exercise his or her rights.
(b) The debtor will be afforded the opportunity—
(1) To inspect and copy Agency records related to the debt;
(2) To enter into a written repayment agreement with GSA under terms agreeable to the Agency; and
(3) To request a hearing in accordance with § 105-57.005 of this part concerning the existence and/or amount of the debt, and/or the terms of the proposed repayment schedule under the garnishment order. However, the debtor is not entitled to a hearing concerning the terms of the proposed repayment schedule if these terms have been established by written agreement under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) The notice required by this section may be included with GSA's demand letter required by 41 CFR 105-55.010.
(d) GSA will keep a copy of the evidence of service indicating the date of submission of the notice. The evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
§ 105-57.005
Hearing.
(a) GSA will provide a hearing, which at the hearing official's option may be oral or written, if within fifteen (15) business days of submission of the notice by GSA, the debtor submits a signed and dated written request for a hearing, to the official named in the notice, concerning the existence and/or amount of the debt, and/or the terms of the repayment schedule (for repayment schedules established other than by written agreement under § 105-57.004(b)(2) of this part). A copy of the request for a hearing must also be sent
to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA) at 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405.
(b)
Types of hearing or review.
(1) For purposes of this section, whenever GSA is required to afford a debtor a hearing, the hearing official will provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when he/she determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity.
(2) If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is appropriate, he/she will establish the time and location of the hearing. An oral hearing may, at the debtor's option, be conducted either in-person or by telephone conference. In-person hearings will be conducted in the hearing official's office located at 1800 M Street NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036, or at another location designated by the hearing official. All personal and travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor. All telephonic charges incurred during a hearing will be the responsibility of GSA.
(3) The debtor may represent himself or herself or may be represented by another person of his or her choice at the hearing. GSA will not compensate the debtor for representation expenses, including hourly fees for attorneys, travel expenses, or costs for reproducing documents.
(4) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, the hearing official will nevertheless conduct a “paper hearing”, that is, the hearing official will decide the issues in dispute based upon a review of the written record. The hearing official will establish a reasonable deadline for the submission of evidence.
(c) Subject to paragraph (k) of this section, if the debtor's written request is received by GSA on or before the 15th business day after the submission of the notice described in § 105-57.004(a) of this part, the Agency will not issue a withholding order under § 105-57.006 of this part until the debtor has been provided the requested hearing and a decision in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section has been rendered.
(d) If the debtor's written request for a hearing is received by GSA after the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice described in § 105-57.004(a) of this part, GSA may consider the request timely filed and provide a hearing if the debtor can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control. However, GSA will not delay issuance of a withholding order unless the Agency determines that the delay in filing the request was caused by factors over which the debtor had no control, or GSA receives information that the Agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order.
(e) After the debtor requests a hearing, the hearing official will notify the debtor of—
(1) The date and time of a telephonic hearing;
(2) The date, time, and location of an in-person oral hearing; or
(3) The deadline for the submission of evidence for a written hearing.
(f)
Burden of proof.
(1) GSA will have the burden of establishing the existence and/or amount of the debt.
(2) Thereafter, if the debtor disputes the existence and/or amount of the debt, the debtor must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the debtor may present evidence that the terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the debtor, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(g) The hearing official will arrange and maintain a written transcript of any hearing provided under this section. The transcript will be made available to either party in the event of an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701 through 706. All charges associated with the taking of the transcript will be the responsibility of GSA. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing; however, witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
(h) The hearing official will issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, as soon as practicable, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the request for such hearing was received by GSA. If the hearing official is unable to provide the debtor with a hearing and render a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing—
(1) GSA will not issue a withholding order until the hearing is held and a decision rendered; or
(2) If GSA had previously issued a withholding order to the debtor's employer, the Agency will suspend the withholding order beginning on the 61st day after the receipt of the hearing request and continuing until a hearing is held and a decision is rendered.
(i) The written decision will include—
(1) A summary of the facts presented;
(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis and conclusions; and
(3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(j) The hearing official's decision will be the final Agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
(k) In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, or to provide written submissions within the time set by the hearing official, will be deemed to have waived his or her right to appear and present evidence.
[68 FR 68761, Dec. 10, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 29247, May 20, 2013]
§ 105-57.006
Wage garnishment order.
(a) Unless GSA receives information it believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order, the Agency will send, by first class mail, overnight delivery service or hand delivery, a SF 329A (Letter to Employer
Important Notice to Employer), a SF 329B (Wage Garnishment Order), a SF 329C (Wage Garnishment Worksheet), and a SF 329D (Employer Certification), to the debtor's employer—
(1) Within 30 days after the debtor fails to make a timely request for a hearing (i.e., within 15 business days after the mailing of the notice described in § 105-57.004(a) of this part); or
(2) If a timely request for a hearing is made by the debtor, within 30 days after a final decision is made by the hearing official to proceed with garnishment.
(b) The withholding order sent to the employer under paragraph (a) of this section will contain the signature of, or the image of the signature of, the Administrator or his or her delegate. The order will contain only the information necessary for the employer to comply with the withholding order. Such information includes the debtor's name, address, and social security number, as well as instructions for withholding and information as to where payments are to be sent.
(c) GSA will retain a copy of the evidence of service indicating the date of submission of the order. The evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
§ 105-57.007
Certification by employer.
The employer must complete and return the SF 329D (Employer Certification) to GSA within the time frame prescribed in the instructions to the form. The certification will address matters such as information about the debtor's employment status and disposable pay available for withholding.
§ 105-57.008
Amounts withheld.
(a) After receipt of the garnishment order issued under this part, the employer shall deduct from all disposable pay paid to the applicable debtor during each pay period the amount of garnishment described in paragraph (b) of this section. The employer may use the SF 329C (Wage Garnishment Worksheet) to calculate the amount to be deducted from the debtor's disposable pay.
(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the amount of garnishment will be the lesser of—
(1) The amount indicated on the garnishment order up to 15 percent of the debtor's disposable pay; or
(2) The amount set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) (Restriction on Garnishment), which is the amount by which a debtor's disposable pay exceeds an amount equivalent to thirty times the minimum wage. See 29 CFR 870.10.
(c) When a debtor's pay is subject to withholding orders with priority, the following will apply:
(1) Unless otherwise provided by Federal law, withholding orders issued under this part will be paid in the amounts set forth under paragraph (b) of this section and will have priority over other withholding orders which are served later in time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, withholding orders for family support will have priority over withholding orders issued under this part.
(2) If amounts are being withheld from a debtor's pay pursuant to a withholding order served on an employer before a withholding order issued pursuant to this part, or if a withholding order for family support is served on an employer at any time, the amounts withheld pursuant to the withholding order issued under this part will be the lesser of—
(i) The amount calculated under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) An amount equal to 25 percent of the debtor's disposable pay less the amount(s) withheld under the withholding order(s) with priority.
(3) If a debtor owes more than one debt to GSA, the Agency may issue multiple withholding orders provided the total amount garnished from the debtor's pay for such orders does not exceed the amount set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) An amount greater than that set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be withheld upon the written consent of the debtor.
(e) The employer shall promptly pay to GSA all amounts withheld in accordance with the withholding order issued pursuant to this part.
(f) An employer will not be required to vary its normal pay and disbursement cycles in order to comply with the withholding order.
(g) Any assignment or allotment by an employee of his or her earnings will be void to the extent it interferes with or prohibits execution of the withholding order issued under this part, except for any assignment or allotment made pursuant to a family support judgment or order.
(h) The employer will withhold the appropriate amount from the debtor's wages for each pay period until the employer receives notification from GSA to discontinue wage withholding. The garnishment order will indicate a reasonable period of time within which the employer is required to commence wage withholding, usually the first payday after the employer receives the order. However, if the first payday is within ten (10) days after the receipt of the garnishment order, the employer may begin deductions on the second payday.
(i) Payments received through a wage garnishment order will be applied in the following order:
(1) To outstanding penalties.
(2) To administrative costs incurred by GSA to collect the debt.
(3) To interest accrued on the debt at the rate established by the terms of the obligation under which it arose or by applicable law.
(4) To outstanding principal.
§ 105-57.009
Exclusions from garnishment.
GSA will not garnish the wages of a debtor who it knows has been involuntarily separated from employment until the debtor has been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. The debtor has the burden of informing GSA of the circumstances surrounding an involuntary separation from employment.
§ 105-57.010
Financial hardship.
(a) A debtor whose wages are subject to a wage withholding order under this part, may, at any time, request a review by GSA of the amount garnished, based on materially changed circumstances such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness which result in financial hardship.
(b) A debtor requesting a review under paragraph (a) of this section shall submit the basis for claiming the current amount of garnishment results in a financial hardship to the debtor, along with supporting documentation.
(c) If a financial hardship is found, GSA will downwardly adjust, by an amount and for a period of time agreeable to the Agency, the amount garnished to reflect the debtor's financial condition. GSA will notify the employer of any adjustments to the amounts to be withheld.
§ 105-57.011
Ending garnishment.
(a) Once GSA has fully recovered the amounts owed by the debtor, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs consistent with the FCCS, the Agency will send the debtor's employer notification to discontinue wage withholding.
(b) At least annually, GSA will review its debtors' accounts to ensure that garnishment has been terminated for accounts that have been paid in full.
§ 105-57.012
Actions prohibited by the employer.
An employer may not discharge, refuse to employ, or take disciplinary action against the debtor due to the issuance of a withholding order under this part. See 31 U.S.C. 3720D(e).
§ 105-57.013
Refunds.
(a) If a hearing official, at a hearing held pursuant to § 105-57.005 of this part, determines that a debt is not legally due and owing to the United States, GSA will promptly refund any amount collected by means of administrative wage garnishment.
(b) Unless required by Federal law or contract, refunds under this part will not bear interest.
§ 105-57.014
Right of action.
GSA may sue any employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to an employee in accordance with §§ 105-057.006 and 105-57.008 of this part, plus attorney's fees, costs, and if applicable, punitive damages. However, a suit may not be filed before the termination of the collection action involving a particular debtor, unless earlier filing is necessary to avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this part, “termination of the collection action” occurs when GSA has terminated collection action in accordance with the FCCS or other applicable standards. In any event, termination of the collection action will have been deemed to occur if GSA has not received any payments to satisfy the debt from the particular debtor whose wages were subject to garnishment, in whole or in part, for a period of one (1) year.
Pt. 105-60

# PART 105-60—PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY RECORDS AND INFORMATIONAL MATERALS

# Subpart A—General Policy
Sec.
105-60.000
Scope of part.
105-60.001
General policy.

# Subpart B—Proactive Disclosures
105-60.100
Public availability of information.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Making Requests
105-60.200
Making a request.
105-60.201
Description of records sought.

# Subpart D—Responding to Requests
105-60.300
Responsibility for responding to FOIA requests.
105-60.301
Acknowledging FOIA requests.
105-60.302
Responding to FOIA requests.
105-60.303
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
105-60.304
Time requirements to respond to FOIA requests.
105.60.305
Unusual circumstances.
105.60.306
Expedited processing.

# Subpart E—Acknowledging the FOIA Request
105-60.400
Applying FOIA exemptions.

# Subpart F—Final Responses to the FOIA Request
105-60.500
Final response procedures and rules.

# Subpart G—Handling Confidential Commercial Information
105-60.600
Procedural and lawful considerations.
105-60.601
Submitter's opportunity to object to disclosure.

# Subpart I—Appeals
105-60.700
Submitting an appeal.
105-60.701
Adjudication of appeals.
105-60.702
Requirements to preserve FOIA records.

# Subpart J—Fees
105-60.800
General provisions.
105-60.801
Definitions pertaining to fee assessments.
105-60.802
Fees to be charged.
105-60.803
Restrictions on charging fees.
105-60.804
Fee schedule.
105-60.805
Anticipated fees.
105-60.806
Advanced payments.
105-60.807
Fee waivers and fee reductions.

# Subpart K—Other Rights and Services
105-60.900
Coda.

# Subpart L—Production or Disclosure by Present or Former General Services Administration Employees in Response to Subpoenas or Similar Demands in Judicial or Administrative Proceedings
105-60.1001
Purpose and scope of subpart.
105-60.1002
Definitions.
105-60.1003
Acceptance of service of a subpoena duces tecum or other legal demand on behalf of the General Services Administration.
105-60.1004
Production or disclosure prohibited unless approved by the Appropriate Authority.
105-60.1005
Procedure in the event of a demand for production or disclosure.
105-60.1006
Procedure where response to demand is required prior to receiving instructions.
105-60.1007
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
105-60.1008
Fees, expenses, and costs.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552; 40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
85 FR 5138, Jan. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Policy
§ 105-60.000
Scope of part.
This part contains the rules that the U.S. General Services Administration, hereinafter GSA, follows in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”), 5 U.S.C. 552. The rules in this part should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB Guidelines”). Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with Privacy Act regulations as well as under this part.
§ 105.60.001
General policy.
(a) In compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), as amended 5 U.S.C. 552, a positive and continuing obligation exists for GSA to make available to the fullest extent practicable upon request by members of the public, all records and informational materials that are generated, maintained, and controlled by GSA.
(b) This subpart also covers exemptions from disclosure of these records; procedures for the public to inspect or obtain copies of GSA records.
(c) The regulations promulgated in this subpart are consistent with amendments to 5 U.S.C. 552a as well as other applicable Federal laws germane to disclosure of information to the public.
(d) This subpart applies to all GSA organizations, portfolios, business lines, regional offices and components. The aforementioned units may establish additional rules for processing FOIA requests due to unique program requirements; however, such rules shall be consistent with these rules and have the concurrence of the GSA Administrator and GSA Chief FOIA Officer.
(e) Any internal GSA policies or procedures inconsistent with the policies and procedures promulgated in this subpart are superseded by this subpart to the extent of that inconsistency.
(f) This subpart does not entitle any person to any service or to the disclosure of any GSA records that are not required to be disclosed under the FOIA.

# Subpart B—Proactive Disclosures
§ 105-60.100
Public availability of information.
Records that FOIA in 5 U.S. Code section 552(a)(2) requires GSA to make available for public inspection in an electronic format can be accessed via GSA's website at
www.gsa.gov
. Additionally, the GSA FOIA Reading Room, and the FOIA Online System. GSA is responsible for determining which of
its records shall be made publicly available, for identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records. These records shall be made available electronically via the GSA FOIA Reading Room. GSA shall ensure that its online FOIA Library of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. GSA maintains a FOIA Requester Service Center, the office that oversees FOIA requests for all of GSA, and a FOIA Public Liaison to assist individuals in locating records particular to an agency. A list of agency FOIA Public Liaisons is available at:
http://www.foia.gov/
.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Making Requests
§ 105-60.200
Making a request.
(a) To make a request for GSA records, a requester shall file their request to the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center via one of the following, via the FOIAonline website: (
https://foiaonline.gov/foiaonline/action/public/home
). From FOIAonline you can submit FOIA requests to GSA and other participating FOIAonline agencies, track the status of requests, search for requests submitted by others, access previously released records, and generate agency-specific FOIA processing reports.
(b) If it is not reasonably possible for a requester to submit an electronic request via FOIAonline, the requester shall submit their request via U.S. Mail to the following address: GSA FOIA Requester Service Center (H3), Room 7308, 1800 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20405. Fax: 202-501-2727. Alternatively, a FOIA requester may email its FOIA request to
gsa.foia@gsa.gov
(Subject: FOIA Request via Email).
(c) FOIA request description
requirements:
(1) The requester shall provide the following items of contact information when submitting a request to GSA:
(i) Full name with honorific (Mr., Ms., Mrs., Dr., etc.);
(ii) Complete mailing address; and
(iii) Telephone number.
(2) This requirement is applicable to both FOIA requests submitted electronically and via U.S. mail, respectively.
(3) Although it is not a mandatory requirement, GSA also recommends the requester provide a personal/business email address for remittance as well.
(d) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself shall comply with the verification of identity requirements as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) Where a request for records pertains to another individual, a requester may receive access to the requested records by submitting: Either a notarized authorization signed by the individual permitting that he or she explicitly grants access to the requested records pursuant to the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 or by submitting proof that the individual is deceased (
e.g.,
a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, GSA can require a requester to supply additional information such as a Certification of Identity Form in order to sufficiently verify the individual submitting the request and/or also verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
§ 105-60.201
Description of records sought.
(a) Requesters shall describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable GSA personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include the following information in their FOIA request, which may help GSA identify the requested records the date/timeframe the requested information was created or occurred, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, contract number, leasing identification number, or reference number and if known, the component of GSA housing the records.
(b) Before submitting a FOIA request, requesters may contact the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center or GSA FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. If after
receiving a request, GSA determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, GSA shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with their assigned Government Information Specialist or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, GSA's response to the request may be delayed.
(c) In order to efficiently respond to FOIA requests within the required 20-business-day timeframe per 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A), GSA may close an unperfected request 10 business days after GSA notifies the requester of the information needed to perfect the request. If the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, it is unperfected. A perfected FOIA request is a FOIA request for records that adequately describes the records sought, is made in accordance with GSA's regulations, has been received by the GSA FOIA Requester Service center, and for which there is no remaining question about the payment or amount of applicable fees.
(d) Requesters may specify whether they prefer to receive paper copies of the records or receive the records electronically. GSA shall accommodate the request if the record is readily reproducible in the requested form.

# Subpart D—Responding to Requests
§ 105-60.300
Responsibility for responding to FOIA requests.
(a) The GSA FOIA Requester Service Center is responsible for managing all requests for records submitted to GSA from initial receipt of the FOIA request through the agency's final decision to release in whole or in part, or withhold the requested records.
(b) Upon receiving a request for records, the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center shall determine whether the requested records reside within GSA. If GSA does not have ownership of the requested records, the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center shall make a good faith effort to redirect the requester to the appropriate record location or/entity that has control and ownership of the requested record, if known.
(c) If GSA has possession of the requested records, the FOIA Requester Service Center shall work in coordination with the appropriate GSA component/or program office to fulfill the FOIA request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552.
§ 105-60.301
Acknowledging FOIA requests.
(a) To the extent practicable, GSA shall communicate with requesters electronically via the FOIAonline web portal and/or email.
(b) Upon receipt of a request, GSA shall send requesters an acknowledgement letter within 2 business days containing a brief description of the records sought so requesters may more easily keep track of their requests.
(c) When a request is submitted via FOIAonline, the system automatically generates a tracking number, which allows for easy identification of each request. This tracking number shall be included in the acknowledgement letter.
(d) When GSA receives a request not directly entered by the requester into FOIAonline (
i.e.,
email, fax, standard mail, etc.) the FOIA Requester Service Center shall immediately upload the request into the FOIAonline system and it shall be assigned a tracking number that shall be communicated to the requester.
§ 105-60.302
Responding to FOIA requests.
(a) GSA shall provide an estimated date by which the agency expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material or searches in multiple locations, GSA may provide an interim response, meaning the agency releases the records on a rolling basis as the records are located and verified.
(b) In determining which records are responsive to a request, the agency shall include only the records in its possession as of the date the agency receives the perfected FOIA request. If any other date is used, GSA shall inform the requester accordingly. A
record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c) is not considered responsive to a request.
(c) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552, GSA is not required to perform the following in response to a FOIA request:
(1) Answer questions or interrogatories posed as FOIA requests;
(2) Issue guidance/or opinions;
(3) Analyze and/or interpret documents for a requester;
(4) Create records;
(5) Conduct research; or
(6) Initiate investigations.
(d) The GSA Administrator and GSA Chief FOIA Officer and/or their assigned delegates are authorized to grant or deny any requests for records or portions thereof that are generated, maintained, or controlled by GSA.
§ 105-60.303
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
(a) All consultations and referrals received by GSA shall be handled according to the date the other agency received the perfected FOIA request.
(b) GSA may establish agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
(c) When GSA is reviewing records located in response to a FOIA request, GSA shall determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine if the records are releasable under the FOIA. As to any such record, GSA shall proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When GSA receives a request for records that either originated with another agency or is a GSA record that includes information that originated with another agency, GSA should typically consult with that other agency prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
(i) Whenever GSA receives a request for records that are known to be the primary responsibility of another agency, GSA shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding records to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that created the records is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if GSA and the originating agency jointly agree that GSA is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the responsive record(s) may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever GSA refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a record request to another agency, GSA shall maintain documentation that the referral to the other agency has occurred, and shall notify the requester of the referral. The notification to the requester shall include both the name of the agency to which the record request was referred and the contact information for the agency's FOIA office/or personnel.
(iii) This referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could reasonably harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. If a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if GSA locates a record that originates with an intelligence community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. Records meeting these criteria shall be treated as a consultation.
(iv) In such instances, in order to avoid a harm to an interest protected by an FOIA applicable exemption, GSA should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by GSA.
(4)
Classified information.
(i) On receipt of any request involving classified information, GSA shall determine whether the information is currently and properly classified in accordance
with applicable classification rules. Whenever a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another agency under any applicable executive order concerning the classification of records, GSA shall refer request for records to the agency that classified the information or that should consider the information for classification.
(ii) Whenever GSA's records contain information that has been derivatively classified (
i.e.,
it contains information classified by another agency), GSA shall refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that classified the information.
§ 105-60.304
Time requirements to respond to FOIA requests.
(a) Upon receipt of perfected request via U.S. mail, email, or facsimile, the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center shall begin processing the request for records. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(i), GSA has 20 business days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays) to inform the requester of the agency's determination with respect to the request for records, unless in the alternative, the agency has negotiated a different timeframe based on scope and level of effort to prepare the FOIA request response. If a requester does not receive a response to their perfected FOIA request within the statutory timeframe requester may seek judicial review in the U.S. District Court in the district in which the requester resides or has a principal place of business, or where the records are situated, or in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.
(b) GSA shall to the greatest extent practicable respond to FOIA requests by order of receipt of the requests.
(c) GSA shall designate a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards set forth in this subpart. GSA may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors GSA may consider are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. GSA shall advise requesters of the track into which their request falls upon request, and when appropriate, offer the requester an opportunity to narrow the scope and/or modify their requests.
(d) GSA may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests for records were submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert for the same, or similar information to ensure it is fulfilled in a timely manner. GSA cannot aggregate multiple requests for unrelated subject matters.
§ 105-60.305
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever GSA cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined at 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(iii), GSA shall, before expiration of the 20-day statutory time period to respond to a request for records, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which GSA estimates the processing of the request shall be completed. Where the extension of time is anticipated to exceed 10 business days, GSA shall provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. GSA shall make available its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. GSA shall also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.
§ 105-60.306
Expedited processing.
(a) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. In order to qualify for consideration for expedited processing, the request shall reasonably describe the records sought. Expedited requests should be described in sufficient detail to facilitate expedited processing.
(b) A requester who seeks expedited processing shall submit a statement with their FOIA request, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
As a matter of administrative discretion, GSA may waive the formal certification requirement.
(c) GSA may process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:
(1) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(2) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information; or
(3) The loss of substantial due process rights; or
(4) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the Government's integrity that affect public confidence.
(d) GSA shall notify the requester within 10 calendar days of its receipt of a request for expedited processing and of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, GSA shall act on any appeal of that decision within 3 business days.

# Subpart E—Acknowledging the FOIA Request
§ 105-60.400
Applying FOIA exemptions.
(a) 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)-(9) of the Freedom of Information Act provides that the disclosure requirements of FOIA do not apply to matters that are:
(1) Specifically authorized under the criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified pursuant to such executive order (see Executive Order No. 13,526);
(2) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency;
(3) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute other than 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)-(9), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue;
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information that could harm the competitive posture or business interests of a company;
(5) Interagency or intra-agency memorandums or letters that would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the agency, provided that the deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested;
(6) Personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution that furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual;
(8) Contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions; or
(9) Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
(b) GSA will provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record to a requester after redacting the portions of the requested records that are exempt under this section.

# Subpart F—Final Responses to the FOIA Request
§ 105-60.500
Final response procedures and rules.
(a) Once GSA determines that it shall grant a request in full or in part, the requester shall be notified of the decision in writing as well. GSA shall also inform the requester of any fees charged under § 105-60.804 of this part and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The agency shall inform the requester of the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(b) If GSA makes an adverse determination on any part of the FOIA request, it shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include determinations that:
(1) The requested record is exempt from disclosure, in whole or in part;
(2) The FOIA request does not reasonably describe the records sought;
(3) The information requested is not subject to FOIA;
(4) The requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or
(5) The requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester.
(c) Records disclosed in part in response to a FOIA request shall be marked clearly to show the exemption under which the applicable portions of the responsive records were redacted unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
(d) Adverse determinations also include denials involving fee waiver requests, denials for expedited processing, and the administrative closure of FOIA requests due to nonpayment of search and review fees for processing the FOIA request.
(e) Any adverse determination of a FOIA request, in full or in part, shall be signed by the Chief FOIA Officer or his or her designee and shall include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the adverse determination;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the adverse determination, including any FOIA exemption that is the basis for GSA's decision;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption; and
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under subpart I of this part, and a description of the appeal requirements.
(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the agency's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.
(f) Use of record exclusions pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c):
(1) In the event that GSA identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), GSA shall confer with Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) If GSA invokes an exclusion, it shall maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.

# Subpart G—Handling Confidential Commercial Information
§ 105-60.600
Procedural and lawful considerations.
(a) Confidential commercial information means commercial or financial information obtained by GSA from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(b) Submitter means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.
(c) A submitter of confidential commercial information shall use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings/or redact any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations expire 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(d) When notice to submitters is required:
(1) GSA shall promptly provide written notice to the submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if GSA determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) GSA has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) The notice shall either describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, GSA may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.
(e) The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:
(1) GSA determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore shall not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12,600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (c) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such a case, GSA shall give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within reasonable time prior to a specified disclosure date.
§ 105-60.601
Submitter's opportunity to object to disclosure.
(a) GSA shall provide a submitter with 10 business days, within which the submitter shall respond to the notice referenced in § 105-60.600.
(b) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide GSA a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as the basis for nondisclosure, the submitter shall explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential and the harm of the release of the information to the submitter.
(c) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information.
(d) GSA is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(e) GSA shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(f) Whenever GSA decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, the agency shall provide the submitter written notice, which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as the agency intends to release them; and
(3) The specified disclosure date.
(g) Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, GSA shall promptly notify the submitter.
(h) GSA shall notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.

# Subpart I—Appeals
§ 105-60.700
Submitting an appeal.
(a) A requester may appeal any adverse determination (denial of access to records, denial of fee waiver, or denial of expedited processing, etc.) to the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center which is designated as the agency's FOIA Appeals Office.
(b) The appeal shall include:
(1) The FOIAonline tracking number;
(2) The basis for disagreement with GSA's adverse determination that is being appealed; and
(3) A brief statement of the reasons he or she thinks GSA should release the records or provide expedited processing and enclose copies of the initial request and denial.
(c) The requester may submit the appeal electronically to
GSA.FOIA@gsa.gov
. The requester should mark the subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.” In the alternative, the requester may submit an appeal via facsimile to 202-501-2727, or via US mail to U.S. General Services Administration, FOIA Requester Service Center (H3), 1800 F Street NW, 7308, Washington, DC 20405-0001. If the appeal is submitted via US mail, the appeal letter must include the words “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” on both the face of the appeal letter and on the envelope. Failure to follow these procedures will delay processing of the appeal.
(d) The GSA FOIA Officer must receive the requester's appeal no later than 90 calendar days after receipt by the requester of any adverse determination by GSA with respect to the FOIA request. GSA has 20 business days after receipt of a proper appeal to issue a response to the requester's appeal. The 20-workday time limit shall not begin until the GSA FOIA Officer receives the appeal. As noted in § 105.60.305 of this part, the GSA FOIA Officer may extend this time limit in unusual circumstances. GSA will process appeals of denials of expedited processing as soon as possible after receiving them. The GSA FOIA Officer may also extend the time limit in the event of unusual circumstances occur during the processing of appeals as well.
§ 105-60.701
Adjudication of appeals.
(a) The GSA Chief FOIA Officer or his or her designee shall act on behalf of GSA on all appeals under this section.
(b) An appeal ordinarily shall not be adjudicated if the request that is the subject of the appeal becomes a matter of FOIA litigation. GSA shall administratively close the appeal if it becomes the subject of litigation and provide this notice to the requester in writing that the request has been administratively closed.
(c) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, GSA shall take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(d) GSA shall provide its review and decision on any appeal in writing. Any decision that either upholds GSA's original determination in whole or in part shall contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied.
(e) If GSA's decision is remanded or modified on appeal, GSA shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. GSA shall then further process
the request in accordance with that appeal determination and shall respond directly to the requester. If GSA affirms its original decision after timely receipt of an appeal, GSA shall inform the requester via writing as well. GSA shall inform the requester of their right to seek judicial review in the U.S. District Court in the district in which the requester resides or has a principal place of business, or where the records are situated, or in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. GSA shall also inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation.
(f) Engaging in dispute resolution or mediation services provided by OGIS is a voluntary process. Mediation is a voluntary process. If GSA agrees to participate in the mediation services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
§ 105-60.702
Requirements to preserve FOIA records.
GSA shall preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the NARA. GSA shall not dispose of or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under FOIA.

# Subpart J—Fees
§ 105-60.800
General provisions.
(a) GSA shall charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and with OMB Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, FOIA establishes three categories of requesters:
(1) Commercial use requesters;
(2) Noncommercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters; and
(3) All other requesters.
(b) Fees are assessed depending on the category GSA determines the requester falls under in subpart A of this part. Requesters may seek a fee waiver. GSA shall consider requests for fee waiver in accordance with the requirements in § 105-60.807 of this subpart. To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, GSA may contact a requester for additional information. GSA shall ensure that searches, review, and duplication of FOIA records are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner.
(c) GSA shall collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters pay fees by check, credit card, or money order made payable to the U.S. General Services Administration, or by another method as determined by GSA.
§ 105-60.801
Definitions pertaining to fee assessments.
(a) A commercial use request is a request that asks for information that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. GSA's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category shall be made on a case-by-case basis and is based on the requester's intended use of the information. GSA shall notify requesters of their placement in this category.
(b) Direct costs are those expenses that GSA incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus sixteen (16) percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space or the heating or lighting of a facility.
(c) Duplication is reproducing a record to respond to a FOIA request. Duplicating records can occur via paper, audiovisual materials or electronic records.
(d) An educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this
fee category shall show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. Agencies may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research.
(e) A noncommercial scientific institution is an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis. The term `commercial' for purposes of this subpart is that which is defined in paragraph (a) of this section and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category shall show that the request is authorized by a qualifying noncommercial institution, or educational institution of vocational and higher learning and where the records are sought to further scientific, or academic scholarly research, and are not for a commercial use. GSA shall advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(f) Representative of the news media is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, GSA can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. GSA shall advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(g) Review is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes the process of reviewing each individual record for possible redactions and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 105-60.601 of this part. It does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(h) Search is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
§ 105-60.802
Fees to be charged.
In responding to FOIA requests, GSA shall charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under § 105-60.807 of this subpart. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, GSA shall not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.
(a)
Search fees.
(1) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. GSA shall charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the rules and restrictions enumerated in this subpart. GSA may properly charge for time spent searching even if the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center does not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(2) For each half hour (30 minutes) spent by GSA personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, a $24.50 fee shall be assessed
per the guidelines of the fee schedule enumerated in § 105-60.804 of this subpart.
(3) GSA shall charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. GSA shall notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester shall agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.
(4) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by GSA at a Federal records center operated by the NARA, GSA shall charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(b)
Duplication fees.
(1) GSA shall charge duplication fees to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of § 105-60.803 of this subpart. GSA shall honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where the agency can readily reproduce it in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, GSA shall provide one copy per request at the cost of $0.10 per copy. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, GSA shall charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time.
(2) Where paper documents shall be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, GSA shall charge the direct costs.
(3) GSA determines the standard fee for duplication of records as follows:
(i) Per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)—U.S. $0.10.
(ii) Per copy prepared by any other method of duplication—actual direct cost of production.
(c)
Review fees.
GSA shall charge review fees to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees shall be assessed based upon the initial review of the record (
i.e.,
the review conducted by GSA to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record). No charge shall be made for review during the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with GSA or another agency's secondary review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees shall be charged at the same rates as those enumerated in the fee schedule of this section.
§ 105-60.803
Restrictions on charging fees.
(a) When GSA determines that a requester is an educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and that the records are not sought for commercial use, GSA shall not charge search fees.
(b) If GSA fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request for agency records under FOIA, it will not charge search fees, or in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (a) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. GSA will charge duplication fees in accordance with § 105-60.802(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart.
(1) If GSA has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by FOIA, apply and the agency provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 business days.
(2) If GSA has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and that more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, GSA may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. GSA shall have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with FOIA and GSA shall have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or
made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the component may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(3) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(c) No search or review fees shall be charged for a half-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(d) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, GSA shall provide without charge:
(1) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(2) The first 2 hours of search time.
(e) No fee shall be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first 2 hours of search, is equal to or less than $49.00.
§ 105-60.804
Fee schedule.
Table 1 to § 105-60.804 outlines the basic fee categories and applicable fees:
Table 1 to § 105-60.804—Fee Requester Category Table
Requester category
Search fees
Review fees
Duplication fees
Amount
(a) Commercial use requester
Yes
Yes
Yes, first 100 pages, or equivalent volume without charge. Then, U.S. $0.10. per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)—OR, per copy prepared by any other method of duplication—actual direct cost of production
$49.00/hour plus applicable duplication costs.
(b) Educational and noncommercial scientific institutions
No
No
Yes, first 100 pages, or equivalent volume without charge. Then, U.S. $0.10. per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)—OR, per copy prepared by any other method of duplication—actual direct cost of production
Eligible requesters not subject to fees other than duplication costs.
(c) Representative of news media
No
No
Yes, first 100 pages, or equivalent volume without charge. Then, U.S. $0.10. per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)—OR, per copy prepared by any other method of duplication—actual direct cost of production
Eligible requesters not subject to fees other than duplication costs.
(d) All other requesters
Yes (first 2 hours without charge)
No
Yes, first 100 pages, or equivalent volume without charge. Then, U.S. $0.10. per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)—OR, per copy prepared by any other method of duplication—actual direct cost of production
$49.00/hour plus applicable duplication costs.

# Note 1 to § 105-60.804:
GSA's calculated hourly rate for manual search, computer operator/programmer time, and employee time spent reviewing records is set at a flat rate of 49.00 per hour. GSA charges for these FOIA services by the hour at $49.00 and half hour at $24.50.

# Note 2 to § 105-60.804:
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires GSA to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily based fee schedule program, GSA shall inform the requester of the contact information for that program.

# Note 3 to § 105-60.804:
If GSA utilizes a contractor or agency personnel outside of the FOIA Requester Service Center to perform any services described in this subpart, the standard fee is based on the equivalent hourly rates.
§ 105-60.805
Anticipated fees.
(a) When GSA determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section shall exceed $49.00, the agency shall notify the
requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated via writing. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, GSA shall advise the requester accordingly. If the request is not for noncommercial use, the notice shall specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, 2 hours of search time at no charge, and shall advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(b) If GSA notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $49.00, the request shall not be considered received and further work shall not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay. Or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester shall provide the commitment/or designate an exact dollar amount in writing the requester is willing to pay. GSA is not required to accept payments in installments.
(c) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the agency estimates that the total fee shall exceed that amount, GSA shall toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. GSA shall inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester submits the new estimated fee, the time to respond shall resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(d) GSA's FOIA Public Liaison and other FOIA professionals shall be available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(e) Although not required to provide special services, if GSA chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service shall be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(f) GSA may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date the requester is first billed. Interest charges shall be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and shall accrue from the billing date until payment is received by the agency. GSA shall follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Public Law 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(g) When GSA reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert are attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, GSA may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. GSA may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, GSA shall aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters cannot be aggregated.
§ 105-60.806
Advanced payments.
(a) For requests other than those described in this subpart, GSA cannot require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.
(b) When GSA determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section shall exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. GSA
may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(c) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to GSA within 30 calendar days of the billing date, GSA may require that the delinquent requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the agency begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If GSA has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(d) In cases in which GSA requires advance payment, the request shall not be considered received and further work shall not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 10 business days after the date of GSA's fee determination, the request shall be closed.
§ 105-60.807
Fee waivers and fee reductions.
(a) Requests for a fee waiver shall be made when the FOIA request is first submitted to the agency and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or being reviewed per an appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester shall pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(b) Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees:
(1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written rationale as to how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester; and
(2) GSA shall furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are satisfied:
(i) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the Government. The subject of the request shall concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated; and
(ii) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met; and
(A) Disclosure of the requested records shall be meaningfully informative about Government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(B) The disclosure shall contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. GSA shall presume that a representative of the news media shall satisfy this consideration;
(iii) The disclosure shall not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, GSA shall consider the following criteria:
(A) GSA shall identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters shall be
given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(B) If there is an identified commercial interest, GSA shall determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. GSA ordinarily shall presume that, when a news media requester has satisfied factors in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and this paragraph (b)(2), the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market Government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(c) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a fee waiver, a waiver shall be granted for those records.

# Subpart K—Other Rights and Services
§ 105-60.900
Coda.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.

# Subpart L—Production or Disclosure by Present or Former General Services Administration Employees in Response to Subpoenas or Similar Demands in Judicial or Administrative Proceedings

# Source:
85 FR 52050, Aug. 24, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-60.1001
Purpose and scope of subpart.
(a) By virtue of the authority vested in the Administrator of General Services by 5 U.S.C. 301 and 41 U.S.C. 121(c) this subpart establishes instructions and procedures to be followed by current and former employees of the General Services Administration in response to subpoenas or similar demands issued in judicial or administrative proceedings for production or disclosure of material or information obtained as part of the performance of a person's official duties or because of the person's official status. Nothing in these instructions applies to responses to subpoenas or demands issued by the Congress or in Federal grand jury proceedings.
(b) This subpart provides instructions regarding the internal operations of GSA and the conduct of its employees, and is not intended and does not, and may not, be relied upon to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against GSA.
§ 105-60.1002
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Material
means any document, record, file or data, regardless of the physical form or the media by or through which it is maintained or recorded, which was generated or acquired by a current or former GSA employee by reason of the performance of that person's official duties or because of the person's official status, or any other tangible item,
e.g.,
personal property possessed or controlled by GSA.
(b)
Information
means any knowledge or facts contained in material, and any knowledge or facts acquired by current or former GSA employee as part of the performance of that person's official duties or because of that person's official status.
(c)
Demand
means any subpoena, order, or similar demand for the production or disclosure of material, information or testimony regarding such material or information, issued by a court or other authority in a judicial or administrative proceeding, excluding congressional subpoenas or demands in Federal grand jury proceedings, and served upon a present or former GSA employee.
(d)
Appropriate authority
means the following officials who are delegated authority to approve or deny responses to demands for material, information or testimony:
(1) The Counsel to the Inspector General for material and information
which is the responsibility of the GSA Office of Inspector General or testimony of current or former employees of the Office of the Inspector General;
(2) The Counsel to the GSA Board of Contract Appeals for material and information which is the responsibility of the Board of Contract Appeals or testimony of current or former Board of Contract Appeals employees;
(3) The GSA General Counsel, Associate General Counsel(s) or Regional Counsel for all material, information, or testimony not covered by paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
§ 105-60.1003
Acceptance of service of a subpoena duces tecum or other legal demand on behalf of the General Services Administration.
(a) The Administrator of General Services and the following officials are the only GSA personnel authorized to accept service of a subpoena or other legal demand on behalf of GSA: The GSA General Counsel and Associate General Counsel(s) and, with respect to material or information which is the responsibility of a regional office, the Regional Administrator and Regional Counsel. The Inspector General and Counsel to the Inspector General, as well as the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Contract Appeals, are authorized to accept service for material or information which are the responsibility of their respective organizations.
(b) A present or former GSA employee not authorized to accept service of a subpoena or other demand for material, information or testimony obtained in an official capacity shall respectfully inform the process server that he or she is not authorized to accept service on behalf of GSA and refer the process server to an appropriate official listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) A Regional Administrator or Regional Counsel shall notify the General Counsel of a demand which may raise policy concerns or affect multiple regions.
§ 105-60.1004
Production or disclosure prohibited unless approved by the Appropriate Authority.
No current or former GSA employee shall, in response to a demand, produce any material or disclose, through testimony or other means, any information covered by this subpart, without prior approval of the Appropriate Authority.
§ 105-60.1005
Procedure in the event of a demand for production or disclosure.
(a) Whenever service of a demand is attempted in person or via mail upon a current or former GSA employee for the production of material or the disclosure of information covered by this subpart, the employee or former employee shall immediately notify the Appropriate Authority through his or her supervisor or his or her former service, staff office, or regional office. The supervisor shall notify the Appropriate Authority. For current or former employees of the Office of Inspector General located in regional offices, Counsel to the Inspector General shall be notified through the immediate supervisor or former employing field office.
(b) The Appropriate Authority shall require that the party seeking material or testimony provide the Appropriate Authority with an affidavit, declaration, statement, and/or a plan as described in paragraphs (c) (1), (2), and (3) of this section if not included with or described in the demand. The Appropriate Authority may waive this requirement for a demand arising out of proceedings to which GSA or the United States is a party. Any waiver will be coordinated with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) in proceedings in which GSA, its current or former employees, or the United States are represented by DOJ.
(c)(1)
Oral testimony.
If oral testimony is sought by a demand, the Appropriate Authority shall require the party seeking the testimony or the party's attorney to provide, by affidavit or other statement, a detailed summary of the testimony sought and its relevance to the proceedings. Any authorization for the testimony of a current or former GSA employee shall be limited to the scope of the demand as summarized in such statement or affidavit.
(2)
Production of material.
When information other than oral testimony is sought by a demand, the Appropriate
Authority shall require the party seeking production or the party's attorney to provide a detailed summary, by affidavit or other statement, of the information sought and its relevance to the proceeding.
(3)
Required plan or other information.
The Appropriate Authority may require a plan or other information from the party seeking testimony or production of material of all demands reasonably foreseeable, including, but not limited to, names of all current and former GSA employees from whom testimony or production is or will likely be sought, areas of inquiry, for current employees the length of time away from duty anticipated, and identification of documents to be used in each deposition or other testimony, where appropriate.
(d) The Appropriate Authority will notify the current or former employee, the appropriate supervisor, and such other persons as circumstances may warrant, whether disclosure or production is authorized, and of any conditions or limitations to disclosure or production.
(e) Factors to be considered by the Appropriate Authority in responding to demands:
(1) Whether disclosure or production is appropriate under rules of procedure governing the proceeding out of which the demand arose;
(2) The relevance of the testimony or documents to the proceedings;
(3) The impact of the relevant substantive law concerning applicable privileges recognized by statute, common law, judicial interpretation or similar authority;
(4) The information provided by the issuer of the demand in response to requests by the Appropriate Authority pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section;
(5) The steps taken by the issuer of the demand to minimize the burden of disclosure or production on GSA, including but not limited to willingness to accept authenticated copies of material in lieu of personal appearance by GSA employees;
(6) The impact on pending or potential litigation involving GSA or the United States as a party;
(7) In consultation with the head of the GSA organizational component affected, the burden on GSA which disclosure or production would entail; and
(8) Any additional factors unique to a particular demand or proceeding.
(f) The Appropriate Authority shall not approve a disclosure or production which would:
(1) Violate a statute or a specific regulation;
(2) Reveal classified information, unless appropriately declassified by the originating agency;
(3) Reveal a confidential source or informant, unless the investigative agency and the source or informant consent;
(4) Reveal records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes which would interfere with enforcement proceedings or disclose investigative techniques and procedures the effectiveness of which would be impaired;
(5) Reveal trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential without prior consultation with the person from whom it was obtained; or
(6) Be contrary to a recognized privilege.
(g) The Appropriate Authority's determination, including any reasons for denial or limitations on disclosure or production, shall be made as expeditiously as possible and shall be communicated in writing to the issuer of the demand and appropriate current or former GSA employee(s). In proceedings in which GSA, its current or former employees, or the United States are represented by DOJ, the determination shall be coordinated with DOJ which may respond to the issuer of the subpoenas or demand in lieu of the Appropriate Authority.
§ 105-60.1006
Procedure where response to demand is required prior to receiving instructions.
(a) If a response to a demand is required before the Appropriate Authority's decision is issued, a GSA attorney designated by the Appropriate Authority for the purpose shall appear with the employee or former employee upon whom the demand has been made, and shall furnish the judicial or other
authority with a copy of the instructions contained in this subpart. The attorney shall inform the court or other authority that the demand has been or is being referred for the prompt consideration by the Appropriate Authority. The attorney shall respectfully request the judicial or administrative authority to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions.
(b) The designated GSA attorney shall coordinate GSA's response with DOJ's Civil Division or the relevant Office of the United States Attorney and may request that a DOJ or Assistant United States Attorney appear with the employee in addition to or in lieu of a designated GSA attorney.
(c) If an immediate demand for production or disclosure is made in circumstances which preclude the appearance of a GSA or DOJ attorney on the behalf of the employee or the former employee, the employee or former employee shall respectfully make a request to the demanding authority for sufficient time to obtain advice of counsel.
§ 105-60.1007
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other authority declines to stay the effect of the demand in response to a request made in accordance with § 105-60.606 pending receipt of instructions, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of instructions by the Appropriate Authority not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the employee or former employee upon whom the demand has been made shall respectfully decline to comply, citing these instructions and the decision of the United States Supreme Court in United States ex rel.
Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
§ 105-60.1008
Fees, expenses, and costs.
(a) In consultation with the Appropriate Authority, a current employee who appears as a witness pursuant to a demand shall ensure that he or she receives all fees and expenses, including travel expenses, to which witnesses are entitled pursuant to rules applicable to the judicial or administrative proceedings out of which the demand arose.
(b) Witness fees and reimbursement for expenses received by a GSA employee shall be disposed of in accordance with rules applicable to Federal employees in effect at the time.
(c) Reimbursement to the GSA for costs associated with producing material pursuant to a demand shall be determined in accordance with rules applicable to the proceedings out of which the demand arose.
Pt. 105-62

# PART 105-62—DOCUMENT SECURITY AND DECLASSIFICATION
Sec.
105-62.000
Scope of part.

# Subpart 105-62.1—Classified Materials
105-62.101
Security classification categories.
105-62.102
Authority to originally classify.
105-62.103
Access to GSA-originated materials.

# Subpart 105-62.2—Declassification and Downgrading
105-62.201
Declassification and downgrading.
105-62.202
Review of classified materials for declassification purposes.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 486(c); and E.O. 12065 dated June 28, 1978.

# Source:
44 FR 64805, Nov. 8, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-62.000
Scope of part.
This part prescribes procedures for safeguarding national security information and material within GSA. They explain how to identify, classify, downgrade, declassify, disseminate, and protect such information in the interests of national security. They also supplement and conform with Executive Order 12065 dated June 28, 1978, subject: National Security Information, and the Implementing Directive dated September 29, 1978, issued through the Information Security Oversight Office.

# Subpart 105-62.1—Classified Materials
§ 105-62.101
Security classification categories.
As set forth in Executive Order 12065, official information or material which requires protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interests of the national defense or foreign relations of the United States (hereinafter collectively termed “national security”) shall be classified in one of three categories: Namely, Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential, depending on its degree of significance to the national security. No other categories shall be used to identify official information or material as requiring protection in the interests of national security except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. The three classification categories are defined as follows:
(a)
Top Secret.
Top Secret refers to that national security information which requires the highest degree of protection, and shall be applied only to such information as the unauthorized disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security. Examples of exceptionally grave damage include armed hostilities against the United States or its allies, disruption of foreign relations vitally affecting the national security, intelligence sources and methods, and the compromise of vital national defense plans or complex cryptologic and communications systems. This classification shall be used with the utmost restraint.
(b)
Secret.
Secret refers to that national security information or material which requires a substantial degree of protection, and shall be applied only to such information as the unauthorized disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause serious damage to the national security. Examples of serious damage include disruption of foreign relations significantly affecting the national security, significant impairment of a program or policy directly related to the national security, and revelation of significant military plans or intelligence operations. This classification shall be used sparingly.
(c)
Confidential.
Confidential refers to other national security information which requires protection, and shall be applied only to such information as the unauthorized disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause identifiable damage to the national security.
§ 105-62.102
Authority to originally classify.
(a)
Top secret, secret, and confidential.
The authority to originally classify information as Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential may be exercised only by the Administrator and is delegable only to the Director, Information Security Oversight Office.
(b)
Limitations on delegation of classification authority.
Delegations of original classification authority are limited to the minimum number absolutely required for efficient administration. Delegated original classification authority may not be redelegated.
[47 FR 5416, Feb. 5, 1982]
§ 105-62.103
Access to GSA-originated materials.
Classified information shall not be disseminated outside the executive branch of the Government without the express permission of the GSA Security Officer except as otherwise provided in this § 105-62.103.
(a)
Access by historical researchers.
Persons outside the executive branch who are engaged in historical research projects, may be authorized access to classified information or material, provided that:
(1) A written determination is made by the Administrator of General Services that such access is clearly consistent with the interests of national security.
(2) Access is limited to that information over which GSA has classification jurisdiction.
(3) The material requested is reasonably accessible and can be located with a reasonable amount of effort.
(4) The person agrees to safeguard the information and to authorize a review of his or her notes and manuscript for determination that no classified information is contained therein by signing a statement entitled “Conditions Governing Access to Official Records for Historical Research Purposes.”
(5) An authorization for access shall be valid for a period of 2 years from the date of issuance and may be renewed under the provisions of this § 105-62.103(a).
(b)
Access by former Presidential appointees.
Persons who previously occupied policymaking positions to which they were appointed by the President may not remove classified information or material upon departure from office as all such material must remain under the security control of the U.S. Government. Such persons may be authorized access to classified information or material which they originated, received, reviewed, signed, or which was addressed to them while in public office, provided that the GSA element having classification jurisdiction for such information or material makes a written determination that access is consistent with the interests of national security, approval is granted by the GSA Security Officer, and the individual seeking access agrees:
(1) To safeguard the information,
(2) To authorize a review of his or her notes for determination that no classified information is contained therein, and
(3) To ensure that no classified information will be further disseminated or published.
(c)
Access during judicial proceedings.
Classified information will not normally be released in the course of any civilian judicial proceeding. In special circumstances however, and upon the receipt of an order or subpoena issued by a Federal court, the Administrator may authorize the limited release of classified information if he or she determines that the interests of justice cannot otherwise be served. Appropriate safeguards will be established to protect such classified material released for use in judicial proceedings.
(d)
Access to material in NARS custody.
The Archivist of the United States prepares procedures governing access to materials transferred to NARS custody. These procedures are issued by the Administrator of General Services in 41 CFR part 105-61.
(e)
Access by the General Accounting Office and congressional committees.
Classified information may be released to the General Accounting Office (GAO) and congressional committees when specifically authorized by the GSA Security Officer except as otherwise provided by law.

# Subpart 105-62.2—Declassification and Downgrading
§ 105-62.201
Declassification and downgrading.
(a)
Authority to downgrade and declassify.
The authority to downgrade and declassify national security information or material shall be exercised as follows:
(1) Information or material may be downgraded or declassified by the GSA official authorizing the original classification, by a successor in capacity, by a supervisory official of either, or by the Information Security Oversight Committee on appeal.
(2) Downgrading and declassification authority may also be exercised by an official specifically authorized by the Administrator.
(3) In the case of classified information or material officially transferred to GSA by or under statute or Executive order in conjunction with a transfer of functions and not merely for storage purposes, GSA shall be deemed the originating agency for all purposes under these procedures including downgrading and declassification.
(4) In the case of classified information or material held in GSA not officially transferred under paragraph (a)(3) of this section but originated in an agency which has since ceased to exist, GSA is deemed the originating agency. Such information or material may be downgraded and declassified 30 calendar days after consulting with any other agencies having an interest in the subject matter.
(5) Classified information or material under the final declassification jurisdiction of GSA which has been transferred to NARS for accession into the Archives of the United States may be downgraded and declassified by the Archivist of the United States in accordance with Executive Order 12065, directives of the Information Security Oversight Office, and the systematic review guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services.
(6) It is presumed that information which continues to meet classification requirements requires continued protection. In some cases, however, the need to protect such information may be outweighed by the public interest in disclosure of the information, and in these cases the information should be declassified. When such questions arise they shall be referred to the Administrator, the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, or in accordance with the procedures for mandatory review described in § 105-62.202(b).
(b)
Declassification.
Declassification of information shall be given emphasis comparable to that accorded classification. Information classified under Executive Order 12065 and prior orders shall be declassified as early as national security considerations permit. Decisions concerning declassification shall be based on the loss of sensitivity of the information with the passage of time or on the occurrence of an event which permits declassification. When information is reviewed for declassification it shall be declassified unless the declassification authority established in § 105-62.202 determines that the information continues to meet the classification requirements prescribed despite the passage of time.
(c)
Downgrading.
Classified information that is marked for automatic downgrading is downgraded accordingly without notification to holders. Classified information that is not marked for automatic downgrading may be assigned a lower classification designation by the originator or by an official authorized to declassify the same information. Notice of downgrading shall be provided to known holders of the information.
§ 105-62.202
Review of classified materials for declassification purposes.
(a)
Systematic review for declassification.
Except for foreign government information, classified information constituting permanently valuable records of GSA as defined by 44 U.S.C. 2103, and information in the possession and under control of NARA, under 44 U.S.C. 2107 or 2107 note, shall be reviewed for declassification as it becomes 20 years old. Transition to systematic review at 20 years shall be implemented as rapidly as practicable and shall be completed by December 1, 1988. Foreign government information shall be reviewed for declassification as it becomes 30 years old.
(b)
Mandatory review for declassification.
All classified information upon request by a member of the public or a Government employee or agency to declassify and release such information under the provisions of Executive Order 12065 shall be reviewed by the responsible GSA element for possible declassification in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.
(c)
Submission of requests for review.
Requests for mandatory review of classified information shall be submitted in accordance with the following:
(1) Requests originating within GSA shall in all cases be submitted directly to the service or staff office that originated the information.
(2) For expeditious action, requests from other governmental agencies or from members of the public should be submitted directly to the service or staff office that originated the material, or, if the originating element is not known, or no longer exists, the requester shall submit the request to the GSA Security Officer who shall cause such request to be reviewed.
(d)
Requirements for processing.
Requests for declassification review and release of information shall be processed in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section subject to the following conditions:
(1) The request is in writing and reasonably describes the information sought with sufficient particularity to enable the element to identify it.
(2) The requester shall be asked to correct a request that does not comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, to provide additional information.
(3) If within 30 days the requester does not correct the request, describe the information sought with sufficient particularity or narrow the scope of the request, the element that received the request shall notify the requester and state the reason why no action will be taken on the request.
(e)
Processing of requests.
Requests that meet the foregoing requirements
for processing will be acted upon as follows:
(1) GSA action upon the initial request shall be completed within 60 days.
(2) Receipt of the request shall be acknowledged within 7 days.
(3) The designated service or staff office shall determine if the requested information may be declassified and shall make such information available to the requester, unless withholding it is otherwise warranted under applicable law. If the information may not be released in whole or in part, the requester shall be given a brief statement as to the reasons for denial, a notice of the right to appeal the determination to the Deputy Administrator (the notice shall include the Deputy Administrator's name, title, and address), and a notice that such an appeal must be filed with the Deputy Administrator within 60 days in order to be considered.
(f)
Foreign government information.
Except as provided hereinafter, requests for mandatory review for the declassification of classified documents that contain foreign government information shall be processed and acted upon in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. If the request involves information that was initially received or classified by GSA, then the corresponding service or staff office shall be designated by the GSA Security Officer to determine whether the foreign government information in the document may be declassified and released in accordance with GSA policy or guidelines, after consulting with other agencies that have subject matter interest as necessary. If GSA is not the agency that received or classified the foreign government information, it shall refer the request to the appropriate agency. In those cases where agency policy or guidelines do not apply, consultation with the foreign originator, through the GSA Security Officer, may be made prior to final action on the request.
(g)
Information classified outside the service or staff office.
When a service or staff office receives a request for declassification of information in a document which is in the custody of the service or staff office but was classified by another service or staff office or by another Government agency, the service or staff office shall refer the request to the classifying service or staff office or Government agency, together with a copy of the document containing the information requested when practicable, and shall notify the requester of the referral, unless the agency that classified the information objects on the grounds that its association with the information requires protection. When a GSA service or staff office receives such a referral, it shall process the request in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph and, if so requested, shall notify the referring service, staff office, or agency of the determination made on the request.
(h)
Action on appeal.
The following procedures shall be followed when denials of requests for declassification are appealed:
(1) The Deputy Administrator shall, within 15 days of the date of the appeal, convene a meeting of the GSA Information Security Oversight Committee (ISOC) that shall include the GSA Security Officer, or his or her representative, and the GSA official who denied the original request (and, at the option of that official, any subordinates or personnel from other agencies that participated in the decision for denial).
(2) The ISOC shall learn from the official the reasons for denying the request, concentrating in particular upon which requirement continued classification is based and the identifiable damage that would result if the information were declassified. The ISOC shall also learn from the official the part or parts of the information that is classified and if by deleting minor segments of the information it might not then be declassified.
(3) The ISOC's decision to uphold or deny the appeal, in whole or in part, shall be based upon the unanimous opinion of its membership. In the event that unanimity cannot be attained, the matter shall be referred to the Administrator, whose decision shall be final.
(4) Based upon the outcome of the appeal, a reply shall be made to the person making the appeal that either encloses the requested information or
part of the information, or explains why the continued classification of the information is required. A copy of the reply shall be sent to the GSA official who originally denied the request for declassification, to the GSA Security Officer, and to any other agency expressing an interest in the decision.
(5) Final action on appeals shall be completed within 30 days of the date of the appeal.
(i)
Prohibition.
No service of staff office in possession of a classified document may refuse to confirm the existence of the document in response to a request for the document under the provisions for mandatory review, unless the fact of its existence would itself be classifiable.
(j)
Presidential papers.
Information less than 10 years old which was originated by the President, by the White House staff, or by committees or commissions appointed by the President, or by others acting on behalf of the President, is exempted from mandatory review for declassification. Such information 10 years old or older is subject to mandatory review for declassification in accordance with procedures developed by the Archivist of the United States which provide for consultation with GSA on matters of primary subject interest to this agency.
Pt. 105-64

# PART 105-64—GSA PRIVACY ACT RULES
Sec.
105-64.000
What is the purpose of this part?
105-64.001
What terms are defined in this part?

# Subpart 105-64.1—Policies and Responsibilities
105-64.101
Who is responsible for enforcing these rules?
105-64.102
What is GSA's policy on disclosure of information in a system of records?
105-64.103
What is GSA's policy on collecting and using information in a system of records?
105-64.104
What must the system manager tell me when soliciting personal information?
105-64.105
When may Social Security Numbers (SSNs) be collected?
105-64.106
What is GSA's policy on information accuracy in a system of records?
105-64.107
What standards of conduct apply to employees with privacy-related responsibilities?
105-64.108
How does GSA safeguard personal information?
105-64.109
How does GSA handle other agencies' records?
105-64.110
When may GSA establish computer matching programs?
105-64.111
What is GSA's policy on directives that may conflict with this part?

# Subpart 105-64.2—Access to Records
105-64.201
How do I get access to my records?
105-64.202
How do I request access in person?
105-64.203
How do I request access in writing?
105-64.204
Can parents and guardians obtain access to records?
105-64.205
Who will provide access to my records?
105-64.206
How long will it take to get my record?
105-64.207
Are there any fees?
105-64.208
What special conditions apply to release of medical records?
105-64.209
What special conditions apply to accessing law enforcement and security records?

# Subpart 105-64.3—Denial of Access to Records
105-64.301
Under what conditions will I be denied access to a record?
105-64.302
How will I be denied access?
105-64.303
How do I appeal a denial to access a record?
105-64.304
How are administrative appeal decisions made?
105-64.305
What is my recourse to an appeal denial?

# Subpart 105-64.4—Amending Records
105-64.401
Can I amend my record?
105-64.402
What records are not subject to amendment?
105-64.403
What happens when I submit a request to amend a record?
105-64.404
What must I do if I agree to an alternative amendment?
105-64.405
Can I appeal a denial to amend a record?
105-64.406
How will my appeal be handled?
105-64.407
How do I file a Statement of Disagreement?
105-64.408
What is my recourse to a denial decision?

# Subpart 105-64.5—Disclosure of Records
105-64.501
Under what conditions may a record be disclosed without my consent?
105-64.502
How do I find out if my record has been disclosed?
105-64.503
What is an accounting of disclosures?
105-64.504
Under what conditions will I be denied an accounting of disclosures?

# Subpart 105-64.6—Establishing or Revising Systems of Records in GSA
105-64.601
Procedures for establishing system of records.

# Subpart 105-64.7—Assistance and Referrals
105-64.701
Submittal of requests for assistance and referrals.

# Subpart 105-64.8—Privacy Complaints
105-64.801
How to file a privacy complaint.
105-64.802
Can I appeal a decision to a privacy complaint?
105-64.803
How will my appeal by handled?
Appendix A to Part 105-64—Addresses for Geographically Dispersed Records

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
74 FR 66246, Dec. 15, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-64.000
What is the purpose of this part?
This part implements the General Services Administration (GSA) rules under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The rules cover the GSA systems of records from which information is retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. These rules set forth GSA's policies and procedures for accessing, reviewing, amending, and disclosing records covered by the Privacy Act. GSA will comply with all existing and future privacy laws.
§ 105-64.001
What terms are defined in this part?
GSA defines the following terms to ensure consistency of use and understanding of their meaning under this part:
Agency
means any organization covered by the Privacy Act as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552a (a)(1). GSA is such an agency.
Computer matching program
means the computerized comparison of two or more Federal personnel or payroll systems of records, or systems of records used to establish or verify an individual's eligibility for Federal benefits or to recoup delinquent debts.
Disclosure of information
means providing a record or the information in a record to someone other than the individual of record.
Exempt records
means records exempted from access by an individual under the Privacy Act, subsections (j)(1), Central Intelligence Agency, (j)(2) and (k)(2), law enforcement, (k)(1), Section 552 (b)(1), (k)(3), protective services to the President,(k)(4), statistical records, (k)(5), employee background investigations, (k)(6), federal service disclosure, and (k)(7), promotion in armed services.
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or a legal resident alien on whom GSA maintains Privacy Act records. An individual may be addressed as
you
when information is provided for the individual's use.
Personally Identifiable Information
(PII) means information about a person that contains some unique identifier, including but not limited to name or Social Security Number, from which the identity of the person can be determined. In OMB Circular M-06-19, the term “Personally Identifiable Information” is defined as any information about an individual maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as their name, Social Security Number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, biometric records, including any other personal information which can be linked to an individual.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual within a system of records which contains the individual's name or any other personal identifier such as number or symbol, fingerprint, voiceprint, or photograph. The information may relate to education, financial transactions, medical conditions, employment, or criminal history collected in connection with an individual's interaction with GSA.
Request for access
means a request by an individual to obtain or review his or her record or information in the record.
Routine use
means disclosure of a record outside GSA for the purpose for which it is intended, as specified in the systems of records notices.
Solicitation
means a request by an officer or employee of GSA for an individual to provide information about himself or herself for a specified purpose.
System of records
means a group of records from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual, or by any number, symbol, or other identifier assigned to that individual.
System manager
means the GSA associate responsible for a system of records and the information in it, as noted in the
Federal Register
systems of records notices.
Un-redacted SSN Mailed Documents Listing
(USMDL) means the Agency approved list, as posted at
www.gsa.gov/reference/gsa-privacy-program,
designating those documents for which the inclusion of the Social Security account number (SSN) is determined to be necessary to fulfill a compelling Agency business need when the documents are requested by individuals outside the Agency or other Federal agencies, as determined by the Administrator or their designee.
[74 FR 66246, Dec. 15, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 32140, May 19, 2023]

# Subpart 105-64.1—Policies and Responsibilities
§ 105-64.101
Who is responsible for enforcing these rules?
GSA Heads of Services and Staff Offices and Regional Administrators are responsible for ensuring that all systems of records under their jurisdiction meet the provisions of the Privacy Act and these rules. System managers are responsible for the system(s) of records assigned to them. The GSA Privacy Act Officer oversees the GSA Privacy Program and establishes privacy-related policy and procedures for the agency under the direction of the GSA Senior Agency Official for Privacy.
§ 105-64.102
What is GSA's policy on disclosure of information in a system of records?
No information contained in a Privacy Act system of records will be disclosed to third parties without the written consent of you, the individual of record, except under the conditions cited in § 105-64.501.
§ 105-64.103
What is GSA's policy on collecting and using information in a system of records?
System managers must collect information that is used to determine your rights, benefits, or privileges under GSA programs directly from you whenever practical, and use the information only for the intended purpose(s).
§ 105-64.104
What must the system manager tell me when soliciting personal information?
When soliciting information from you or a third party for a system of records, system managers must: Cite the authority for collecting the information; say whether providing the information is mandatory or voluntary; give the purpose for which the information will be used; state the routine uses of the information; and describe the effect on you, if any, of not providing the information. This information is found in the Privacy Act Statement. Any form that asks for personal information will contain this statement.
§ 105-64.105
When may Social Security Numbers (SSNs) be collected?
(a) Statutory or regulatory authority must exist for collecting Social Security Numbers for record systems that use the SSNs as a method of identification. Systems without statutory or regulatory authority implemented after January 1, 1975, will not collect Social Security Numbers.
(b) In compliance with OMB M-07-16 (Safeguarding Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information) collection and storage of SSN will be limited to systems where no other identifier is currently available. While GSA will strive to reduce the collection and storage of SSN and other PII we recognize that some systems continue to need to collect this information.
§ 105-64.106
What is GSA's policy on information accuracy in a system of records?
System managers will ensure that all Privacy Act records are accurate, relevant, necessary, timely, and complete. All GSA systems are reviewed annually. Those systems that contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII) are reviewed to ensure they are relevant, necessary, accurate, up-to-date, and covered by the appropriate legal or regulatory authority. A listing of GSA Privacy Act Systems can be found at the following link (
http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC
contentId = 21567
).
§ 105-64.107
What standards of conduct apply to employees with privacy-related responsibilities?
(a) Employees who design, develop, operate, or maintain Privacy Act record systems will protect system security, avoid unauthorized disclosure of information, both verbal and written, and ensure that no system of records is maintained without public notice. All such employees will follow the standards of conduct in 5 CFR part 2635, 5 CFR part 6701, 5 CFR part 735, and 5 CFR part 2634 to protect personal information.
(b) Employees who have access to privacy act records will avoid unauthorized disclosure of personal information, both written and verbal, and ensure they have met privacy training requirements. All such employees will follow GSA orders HCO 9297.1 GSA Data Release Policy, HCO 9297.2A GSA Information Breach Notification Policy, HCO 2180.1 GSA Rules of Behavior for Handling Personally Identifiable Information (PII), CIO P 2100.1E CIO P GSA Information Technology (IT) Security Policy, and CIO 2104.1 GSA Information Technology (IT) General Rules of Behavior.
(c)(1) The following conditions must be met for the inclusion of an unredacted (full) SSN or partially redacted (truncated) SSN on any document sent by mail on behalf of the agency:
(i) The inclusion of the full SSN or truncated SSN of an individual must be required or authorized by law; and
(ii) The document must be listed on the USMDL.
(2) Even when the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(1) are met, employees shall redact SSNs in all documents sent by mail where feasible. Where full redaction is not possible due to agency requirements, partial redaction to create a truncated SSN shall be preferred to no redaction.
(3) In no case shall any complete or partial SSN be visible on the outside of any envelope or package sent by mail or displayed on correspondence that is visible through the window of an envelope or package.
[74 FR 66246, Dec. 15, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 32140, May 19, 2023]
§ 105-64.108
How does GSA safeguard personal information?
(a) System managers will establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of records, protect the records against possible threats or hazards, and permit access only to authorized persons. Automated systems will incorporate security controls such as password protection, verification of identity of authorized users, detection of break-in attempts, firewalls, or encryption, as appropriate.
(b) System managers will ensure that employees and contractors who have access to personal information in their system will have the proper background investigation and meet all privacy training requirements.
§ 105-64.109
How does GSA handle other agencies' records?
In cases where GSA has either permanent or temporary custody of other agencies' records, system managers will coordinate with those agencies on any release of information. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) records that are in GSA's custody are subject to OPM's Privacy Act rules.
§ 105-64.110
When may GSA establish computer matching programs?
(a) System managers will establish computer matching programs or agreements for sharing information with other agencies only with the consent and under the direction of the GSA
Data Integrity Board that will be established when and if computer matching programs are used at GSA.
(b) GSA will designate which positions comprise the Data Integrity Board and develop a policy that defines the roles and responsibilities of these positions.
§ 105-64.111
What is GSA's policy on directives that may conflict with this part?
These rules take precedence over any GSA directive that may conflict with the requirements stated here. GSA officials will ensure that no such conflict exists in new or existing directives.

# Subpart 105-64.2—Access to Records
§ 105-64.201
How do I get access to my records?
You may request access to your record in person or by writing to the system manager or, in the case of geographically dispersed records, to the office maintaining the records (
see
appendix A to this part). Parents or guardians may obtain access to records of minors or when a court has determined that the individual of record is incompetent.
§ 105-64.202
How do I request access in person?
If appearing in person, you must properly identify yourself through photographic identification such as an agency identification badge, passport, or driver's license. Records will be available during normal business hours at the offices where the records are maintained. You may examine the record and be provided a copy on request. If you want someone else to accompany you when reviewing a record, you must first sign a statement authorizing the disclosure of the record; the statement will be maintained with your record.
§ 105-64.203
How do I request access in writing?
If you request access in writing, mark both the envelope and the request letter “Privacy Act Request”. Include in the request your full name and address; a description of the records you seek; the title and number of the system of records as published in the
Federal Register;
a brief description of the nature, time, and place of your association with GSA; and any other information you believe will help in locating the record.
§ 105-64.204
Can parents and guardians obtain access to records?
If you are the parent or guardian of a minor, or of a person judicially determined to be incompetent, you must provide full information about the individual of record. You also must properly identify yourself and provide a copy of the birth certificate of the individual, or a court order establishing guardianship, whichever applies.
§ 105-64.205
Who will provide access to my record?
The system manager will make a record available to you on request, unless special conditions apply, such as for medical, law enforcement, and security records.
§ 105-64.206
How long will it take to get my record?
The system manager will make a record available within 10 workdays after receipt of your request. If a delay of more than 10 workdays is expected, the system manager will notify you in writing of the reason for the delay and when the record will be available. The system manager may ask you for additional information to clarify your request. The system manager will have an additional 10 workdays after receipt of the new information to provide the record to you, or provide another acknowledgment letter if a delay in locating the record is expected.
§ 105-64.207
Are there any fees?
No fees are charged for records when the total fee is less than $25. The system manager may waive the fee above this amount if providing records without charge is customary or in the public interest. When the cost exceeds $25, the fee for a paper copy is 10 cents per page, and the fee for materials other than paper copies is the actual cost of reproduction. For fees above $250, advance payment is required. You should pay by check or money order made
payable to the General Services Administration, and provide it to the system manager.
§ 105-64.208
What special conditions apply to release of medical records?
Medical records containing information that may have an adverse effect upon a person will be released only to a physician designated in writing by you, or by your guardian or conservator. Medical records in an Official Personnel Folder (OPF) fall under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and will be referred to OPM for a response.
§ 105-64.209
What special conditions apply to accessing law enforcement and security records?
Law enforcement and security records are generally exempt from disclosure to individuals except when the system manager, in consultation with legal counsel and the Head of the Service or Staff Office or Regional Administrator or their representatives, determines that information in a record has been used or is being used to deny you any right, privilege, or benefit for which you are eligible or entitled under Federal law. If so, the system manager will notify you of the existence of the record and disclose the information, but only to the extent that the information does not identify a confidential source. If disclosure of information could reasonably be expected to identify a confidential source, the record will not be disclosed to you unless it is possible to delete all such information. A confidential source is a person or persons who furnished information during Federal investigations with the understanding that his or her identity would remain confidential.

# Subpart 105-64.3—Denial of Access to Records
§ 105-64.301
Under what conditions will I be denied access to a record?
The system manager will deny access to a record that is being compiled in the reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding or to records that are specifically exempted from disclosure by GSA in its system of records notices, published in the
Federal Register.
Exempted systems include the Investigation Case Files, Internal Evaluation Case Files, and Security Files. These systems are exempted to maintain the effectiveness and integrity of investigations conducted by the Office of Inspector General, and others, as part of their duties and responsibilities involving Federal employment, contracts, and security.
§ 105-64.302
How will I be denied access?
If you request access to a record in an exempt system of records, the system manager will consult with the Head of Service or Staff Office or Regional Administrator or their representatives, legal counsel, and other officials as appropriate, to determine if all or part of the record may be disclosed. If the decision is to deny access, the system manager will provide a written notice to you giving the reason for the denial and your appeal rights.
§ 105-64.303
How do I appeal a denial to access a record?
If you are denied access to a record in whole or in part, you may file an administrative appeal within 30 days of the denial. The appeal should be in writing and addressed to: GSA Privacy Act Officer (CIB), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405. Mark both the envelope and the appeal letter “Privacy Act Appeal”.
§ 105-64.304
How are administrative appeal decisions made?
The GSA Privacy Act Officer will conduct a review of your appeal by consulting with legal counsel and appropriate officials. The Privacy Act Officer may grant record access if the appeal is granted. If the decision is to reject the appeal, the Privacy Act Officer will provide all pertinent information about the case to the Deputy Administrator and ask for a final administrative decision. The Deputy Administrator may grant access to a record, in which case the Privacy Act Officer will notify you in writing, and the system manager will make the record available to you. If the Deputy Administrator denies the appeal, he or she will notify you in writing of the reason for
rejection and of your right to a judicial review. The administrative appeal review will take no longer than 30 workdays after the Privacy Act Officer receives the appeal. The Deputy Administrator may extend the time limit by notifying you in writing of the extension and the reason for it before the 30 days are up.
§ 105-64.305
What is my recourse to an appeal denial?
You may file a civil action to have the GSA administrative decision overturned within two years after the decision is made. You may file in a Federal District Court where you live or have a principal place of business, where the records are maintained, or in the District of Columbia.

# Subpart 105-64.4—Amending Records
§ 105-64.401
Can I amend my record?
You may request to amend your record by writing to the system manager with the proposed amendment. Mark both the envelope and the letter “Privacy Act Request to Amend Record”.
§ 105-64.402
What records are not subject to amendment?
You may not amend the following records under the law:
(a) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath.
(b) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings which constitute the official record of the proceedings.
(c) Pre-sentence reports that are maintained within a system of records but are the property of the courts.
(d) Records exempted from amendment by notice published in the
Federal Register.
§ 105-64.403
What happens when I submit a request to amend a record?
The system manager will consult with the Head of Service or Staff Office or Regional Administrator or their representatives, and legal counsel. They will determine whether to amend an existing record by comparing its accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness with the amendment you propose. The system manager will notify you within 10 workdays whether your proposed amendment is approved or denied. In case of an expected delay, the system manager will acknowledge receipt of your request in writing and provide an estimate of when you may expect a decision. If your request to amend is approved, the system manager will amend the record and send an amended copy to you and to anyone who had previously received the record. If your request to amend is denied, the system manager will advise you in writing, giving the reason for denial, a proposed alternative amendment if possible, and your appeal rights. The system manager also will notify the GSA Privacy Act Officer of any request for amendment and its disposition. Any amendment to a record may involve a person's Official Personnel Folder (OPF). OPF regulations are governed by OPM regulations, including alternate amendments and appeals of denials, and not GSA regulations.
§ 105-64.404
What must I do if I agree to an alternative amendment?
If you agree to the alternative amendment proposed by the system manager, you must notify the manager in writing of your concurrence. The system manager will amend the record and send an amended copy to you and to anyone else who had previously received the record.
§ 105-64.405
Can I appeal a denial to amend a record?
You may file an appeal within 30 workdays of a denial to amend your record by writing to the: GSA Privacy Act Officer (CIB), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405. Mark both the envelope and the appeal letter “Privacy Act Amendment Appeal.” Appeals to amend records in a GSA employee's official personnel file will be sent to the Office of Personnel Management, Washington, DC 20415.
§ 105-64.406
How will my appeal be handled?
The GSA Privacy Act Officer will consult with legal counsel and appropriate GSA officials concerning your appeal. If they decide to reject your appeal, the Privacy Act Officer will provide the Deputy Administrator with all pertinent information about the case and request a final administrative decision. The Deputy Administrator may approve your amendment, in which case the Privacy Act Officer will notify you in writing, and the system manager will amend the record and send an amended copy to you and anyone who had previously been provided with the record. If the Deputy Administrator denies the appeal, he or she will notify you in writing of the reason for denial, of your right to a judicial review, and of your right to file a Statement of Disagreement. The amendment appeal review will be made within 30 workdays after the Privacy Act Officer receives your appeal. The Deputy Administrator may extend the time limit by notifying you in writing of the reason for the extension before the 30 days are up.
§ 105-64.407
How do I file a Statement of Disagreement?
You may file a Statement of Disagreement with the system manager within 30 days of the denial to amend a record. The statement should explain why you believe the record to be inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely, or incomplete. The system manager will file the statement with your record, provide a copy to anyone who had previously received the record, and include a copy of it in any future disclosure.
§ 105-64.408
What is my recourse to a denial decision?
You may file a civil action to have the GSA decision overturned within two years after denial of an amendment appeal. You may file the civil action in a Federal District Court where you live or have a principal place of business, where the records are maintained, or in the District of Columbia.

# Subpart 105-64.5—Disclosure of Records
§ 105-64.501
Under what conditions may a record be disclosed without my consent?
A system manager may disclose your record without your consent under the Privacy Act when the disclosure is: To GSA officials or employees in the performance of their official duties; required by the Freedom of Information Act; for a routine use stated in a
Federal Register
notice; to the Bureau of the Census for use in fulfilling its duties; for statistical research or reporting, and only when the record is not individually identifiable; to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) when the record has been determined to be of historical or other value that warrants permanent retention; to a U.S. law enforcement agency or instrumentality for a civil or criminal law enforcement purpose; under compelling circumstances affecting an individual's health and safety, and upon disclosure a notification will be sent to the individual; to Congress or its committees and subcommittees when the record material falls within their jurisdiction; to the Comptroller General or an authorized representative in the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office (GAO); under a court order; or to a consumer reporting agency under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, 31 U.S.C. 3711.
§ 105-64.502
How do I find out if my record has been disclosed?
You may request an accounting of the persons or agencies to whom your record has been disclosed, including the date and purpose of each disclosure, by writing to the system manager. Mark both the envelope and the letter “Privacy Act Accounting Request”. The system manager will provide the requested information in the same way as that for granting access to records; see Subpart 105-64.2, providing no restrictions to disclosure or accounting of disclosures applies.
§ 105-64.503
What is an accounting of disclosures?
The system manager maintains an account of each record disclosure for five years or for the life of the record, whichever is longer. The accounting of disclosure information includes the name of the person or agency to whom your record has been provided, the date, the type of information disclosed, and the reason for disclosure. Other pertinent information, such as justifications for disclosure and any written consent that you may have provided, is also included. No accounting needs to be maintained for disclosures to GSA officials or employees in the performance of their duties, or disclosures under the Freedom of Information Act.
§ 105-64.504
Under what conditions will I be denied an accounting of disclosures?
The system manager will deny your request for an accounting of disclosures when the disclosures are to GSA officials or employees in the performance of their duties or disclosures under the Freedom of Information Act, for which no accounting is required; law enforcement agencies for law enforcement activities; and systems of records exempted by notice in the
Federal Register.
You may appeal a denial using the same procedures as those for denial of access to records,
see
Subpart 105-64.3.

# Subpart 105-64.6—Establishing or Revising Systems of Records in GSA
§ 105-64.601
Procedures for establishing system of records.
The following procedures apply to any proposed new or revised system of records:
(a) Before establishing a new or revising an existing system of records, the system manager, with the concurrence of the appropriate Head of Service or Staff Office, will provide to the GSA Privacy Act Officer a proposal describing and justifying the new system or revision.
(b) A Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) will be filled out to determine if a system notice needs to be completed.
(c) The GSA Privacy Act Officer will work with the program office to create the draft system of notice document.
(d) The GSA Privacy Office will work with various offices to take the draft system notice through the concurrence process.
(e) The GSA Privacy Act Officer will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of intent to establish or revise the system of records at least 30 calendar days before the planned system establishment or revision date.
(f) The new or revised system becomes effective 30 days after the notice is published in the
Federal Register
unless submitted comments result in a revision to the notice, in which case, a new revised notice will be issued.
(g) When publishing a new system notice letters will be sent to the Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and the Docket Library Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget.

# Subpart 105-64.7—Assistance and Referrals
§ 105-64.701
Submittal of requests for assistance and referrals.
Address requests for assistance involving GSA Privacy Act rules and procedures, or for referrals to system managers or GSA officials responsible for implementing these rules to: GSA Privacy Act Officer (CIB), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405.

# Subpart 105-64.8—Privacy Complaints
§ 105-64.801
How to file a privacy complaint.
E-mail your complaint to
gsa.privacyact@gsa.gov
or send to: GSA Privacy Act Officer (CIB), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405. Please provide as much details about the complaint in the communication. Provide contact information where you prefer all communication to be sent. The Privacy Officer will conduct an investigation and consult with appropriate GSA
officials and legal counsel to render a decision within 30 workdays of the complaint being received by the privacy office. The decision will be sent by the method the complaint was received.
§ 105-64.802
Can I appeal a decision to a privacy complaint?
You may file an appeal within 30 workdays of a denial of a privacy complaint by writing to: GSA Privacy Act Officer (CIB), General Services Administration, 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405. Mark both the envelope and appeal letter “Privacy Act Complaint appeal”.
§ 105-64.803
How will my appeal be handled?
The Privacy Act Officer will consult with legal counsel and the appropriate GSA officials concerning your appeal. The decision will be made by the Senior Agency Official for Privacy. The decision will be sent within 30 workdays of the appeal being received by the privacy office. The decision provided in the appeal letter is the final recourse.
Pt. 105-64, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 105-64—Addresses for Geographically Dispersed Records
Address requests for physically dispersed records, as noted in the system of records notices, to the Regional Privacy Act Coordinator, General Services Administration, at the appropriate regional GSA office, as follows:
Great Lakes Region
(includes Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Minnesota, and Wisconsin), 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604-1696.
Greater Southwest Region
(includes Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Texas), 819 Taylor Street, Fort Worth, TX 76102.
Mid-Atlantic Region
(includes Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia, but excludes the National Capital Region), The Strawbridge Building, 20 North 8th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107-3191.
National Capital Region
(includes the District of Columbia; the counties of Montgomery and Prince George's in Maryland; the city of Alexandria, Virginia; and the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William in Virginia), 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC 20407.
New England Region
(includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont), 10 Causeway Street, Boston, MA 02222.
Northeast and Caribbean Region
(includes New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands), 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278.
Northwest/Arctic Region
(includes Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington), 400 15th Street, SW., Auburn, WA 98001-6599.
Pacific Rim Region
(includes Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada), 450 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102-3400.
Rocky Mountain Region
(includes Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming), U.S. General Services Administration, DFC, Bldg. 41, Rm. 210, P.O. Box 25006, Denver, CO 80225-0006.
Southeast-Sunbelt Region
(includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee), Office of the Regional Administrator (4A), 77 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, GA 30303.
The Heartland Region
(includes Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska), 1500 East Bannister Road, Kansas City, MO 64131-3088.
Pt. 105-67

# PART 105-67—SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
105-67.100
Scope of subpart.
105-67.101
Debarred, suspended and ineligible contractors.

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).
§ 105-67.100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes policies and procedures governing the debarment or suspension of contractors from purchases of Federal personal property (see FPMR part 101-45).
[51 FR 13500, Apr. 21, 1986]
§ 105-67.101
Debarred, suspended and ineligible contractors.
The policies, procedures and requirements of subpart 509.4 of the General Services Administration Acquisition Regulation (GSAR) are incorporated by reference and made applicable to contracts for, and to contractors who engage in, the purchase of Federal personal property.
[51 FR 13500, Apr. 21, 1986]
Pt. 105-68

# PART 105-68—GOVERNMENTWIDE DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT)
Sec.
105-68.25
How is this part organized?
105-68.50
How is this part written?
105-68.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?

# Subpart A—General
105-68.100
What does this part do?
105-68.105
Does this part apply to me?
105-68.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
105-68.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
105-68.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
105-68.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
105-68.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
105-68.135
May the General Services Administration exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
105-68.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
105-68.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
105-68.200
What is a covered transaction?
105-68.205
Why is it important to know if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
105-68.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
105-68.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
105-68.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
105-68.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
105-68.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
105-68.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
105-68.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
105-68.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
105-68.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
105-68.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
105-68.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
105-68.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the General Services Administration?
105-68.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 105-68.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
105-68.345
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 105-68.335?
105-68.350
What must I do if I learn of the information required under § 105-68.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the General Services Administration?

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
105-68.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
105-68.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 105-68.355?
105-68.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 105-68.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of GSA Officials Regarding Transactions
105-68.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
105-68.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
105-68.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
105-68.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
105-68.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
105-68.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
105-68.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
105-68.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
105-68.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
105-68.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
105-68.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 105-68.335?
105-68.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 105-68.355 to the next higher tier?

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
105-68.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
105-68.505
Who uses the EPLS?
105-68.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
105-68.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
105-68.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
105-68.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
105-68.530
Where can I find the EPLS?

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
105-68.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
105-68.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
105-68.610
What procedures does the General Services Administration use in suspension and debarment actions?
105-68.615
How does the General Services Administration notify a person of a suspension and debarment action?
105-68.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
105-68.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment action?
105-68.630
May the General Services Administration impute the conduct of one person to another?
105-68.635
May the General Services Administration settle a debarment or suspension action?
105-68.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
105-68.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the General Services Administration agrees to a voluntary exclusion?

# Subpart G—Suspension
105-68.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
105-68.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
105-68.710
When does a suspension take effect?
105-68.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
105-68.720
How may I contest a suspension?
105-68.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
105-68.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
105-68.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
105-68.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
105-68.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
105-68.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
105-68.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
105-68.760
How long may my suspension last?

# Subpart H—Debarment
105-68.800
What are the causes for debarment?
105-68.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
105-68.810
When does a debarment take effect?
105-68.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
105-68.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
105-68.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
105-68.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the proposed debarment is based?
105-68.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
105-68.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
105-68.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
105-68.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
105-68.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
105-68.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
105-68.865
How long may my debarment last?
105-68.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
105-68.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
105-68.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
105-68.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
105-68.900
Adequate evidence.
105-68.905
Affiliate.
105-68.910
Agency.
105-68.915
Agent or representative.
105-68.920
Civil judgment.
105-68.925
Conviction.
105-68.930
Debarment.
105-68.935
Debarring official.
105-68.940
Disqualified.
105-68.945
Excluded or exclusion.
105-68.950
Excluded Parties List System.
105-68.955
Indictment.
105-68.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
105-68.965
Legal proceedings.
105-68.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
105-68.975
Notice.
105-68.980
Participant.
105-68.985
Person.
105-68.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
105-68.995
Principal.
105-68.1000
Respondent.
105-68.1005
State.
105-68.1010
Suspending official.
105-68.1015
Suspension.
105-68.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Appendix to Part 105-68—Covered Transactions

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
68 FR 66626, 66627, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-68.25
How is this part organized?
(a) This part is subdivided into ten subparts. Each subpart contains information related to a broad topic or specific audience with special responsibilities, as shown in the following table:
In subpart . . .
You will find provisions related to . . .
A
general information about this rule.
B
the types of GSA transactions that are covered by the Governmentwide nonprocurement suspension and debarment system.
C
the responsibilities of persons who participate in covered transactions.
D
the responsibilities of GSA officials who are authorized to enter into covered transactions.
E
the responsibilities of Federal agencies for the
Excluded Parties List System
(Disseminated by the General Services Administration).
F
the general principles governing suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion and settlement.
G
suspension actions.
H
debarment actions.
I
definitions of terms used in this part.
J
[Reserved]
(b) The following table shows which subparts may be of special interest to you, depending on who you are:
If you are . . .
See subpart(s) . . .
(1) a participant or principal in a nonprocurement transaction
A, B, C, and I.
(2) a respondent in a suspension action
A, B, F, G and I.
(3) a respondent in a debarment action
A, B, F, H and I.
(4) a suspending official
A, B, D, E, F, G and I.
(5) a debarring official
A, B, D, E, F, H and I.
(6) a (n) GSA official authorized to enter into a covered transaction
A, B, D, E and I.
(7) Reserved
J.
§ 105-68.50
How is this part written?
(a) This part uses a “plain language” format to make it easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Pronouns used within this part, such as “I” and “you,” change from subpart to subpart depending on the audience being addressed. The pronoun “we” always is the General Services Administration.
(c) The “Covered Transactions” diagram in the appendix to this part shows the levels or “tiers” at which the General Services Administration enforces an exclusion under this part.
§ 105-68.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?
This part uses terms throughout the text that have special meaning. Those terms are defined in Subpart I of this part. For example, three important terms are—
(a)
Exclusion or excluded,
which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
(b)
Disqualification or disqualified,
which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
(c)
Ineligibility or ineligible,
which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.

# Subpart A—General
§ 105-68.100
What does this part do?
This part adopts a governmentwide system of debarment and suspension for GSA nonprocurement activities. It also provides for reciprocal exclusion of persons who have been excluded under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and provides for the consolidated listing of all persons who are excluded, or disqualified by statute, executive order, or other legal authority. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 105-68.105
Does this part apply to me?
Portions of this part (see table at § 105-68.25(b)) apply to you if you are a(n)—
(a) Person who has been, is, or may reasonably be expected to be, a participant or principal in a covered transaction;
(b) Respondent (a person against whom the General Services Administration has initiated a debarment or suspension action);
(c) GSA debarring or suspending official; or
(d) GSA official who is authorized to enter into covered transactions with non-Federal parties.
§ 105-68.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
(a) To protect the public interest, the Federal Government ensures the integrity of Federal programs by conducting business only with responsible persons.
(b) A Federal agency uses the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system to exclude from Federal programs persons who are not presently responsible.
(c) An exclusion is a serious action that a Federal agency may take only to protect the public interest. A Federal agency may not exclude a person or commodity for the purposes of punishment.
§ 105-68.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
With the exceptions stated in §§ 105-68.120, 105-68.315, and 105-68.420, a person who is excluded by the General Services Administration or any other Federal agency may not:
(a) Be a participant in a(n) GSA transaction that is a covered transaction under subpart B of this part;
(b) Be a participant in a transaction of any other Federal agency that is a covered transaction under that agency's regulation for debarment and suspension; or
(c) Act as a principal of a person participating in one of those covered transactions.
§ 105-68.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
(a) The Administrator of General Services may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Administrator of General Services grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.
§ 105-68.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under its nonprocurement common rule on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in Federal procurement transactions under the FAR. Therefore, an exclusion under this part has reciprocal effect in Federal procurement transactions.
§ 105-68.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under the FAR on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in nonprocurement covered transactions under this part. Therefore, an exclusion under the FAR has reciprocal effect in Federal nonprocurement transactions.
§ 105-68.135
May the General Services Administration exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
Given a cause that justifies an exclusion under this part, we may exclude any person who has been involved, is currently involved, or may reasonably be expected to be involved in a covered transaction.
§ 105-68.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
Check the
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
to determine whether a person is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS
and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 105-68.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?
Except if provided for in Subpart J of this part, this part—
(a) Addresses disqualified persons only to—
(1) Provide for their inclusion in the
EPLS;
and
(2) State responsibilities of Federal agencies and participants to check for disqualified persons before entering into covered transactions.
(b) Does not specify the—
(1) GSA transactions for which a disqualified person is ineligible. Those transactions vary on a case-by-case basis, because they depend on the language of the specific statute, Executive order, or regulation that caused the disqualification;
(2) Entities to which the disqualification applies; or
(3) Process that the agency uses to disqualify a person. Unlike exclusion, disqualification is frequently not a discretionary action that a Federal agency takes.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 105-68.200
What is a covered transaction?
A covered transaction is a nonprocurement or procurement transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of this part. It may be a transaction at—
(a) The primary tier, between a Federal agency and a person (see appendix to this part); or
(b) A lower tier, between a participant in a covered transaction and another person.
§ 105-68.205
Why is it important if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
The importance of a covered transaction depends upon who you are.
(a) As a participant in the transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart C of this part. Those include responsibilities to the person or Federal agency at the next higher tier from whom you received the transaction, if any. They also include responsibilities if you subsequently enter into other covered transactions with persons at the next lower tier.
(b) As a Federal official who enters into a primary tier transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart D of this part.
(c) As an excluded person, you may not be a participant or principal in the transaction unless—
(1) The person who entered into the transaction with you allows you to continue your involvement in a transaction that predates your exclusion, as permitted under § 105-68.310 or § 105-68.415; or
(2) A(n) GSA official obtains an exception from the Administrator of General Services to allow you to be involved in the transaction, as permitted under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
All nonprocurement transactions, as defined in § 105-68.970, are covered transactions unless listed in § 105-68.215. (See appendix to this part.)
§ 105-68.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
The following types of nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions:
(a) A direct award to—
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization;
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
(b) A benefit to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted). For example, if a person receives social security benefits under the Supplemental Security Income provisions of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.,
those benefits are not covered transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
(c) Federal employment.
(d) A transaction that the General Services Administration needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster.
(e) A permit, license, certificate, or similar instrument issued as a means to regulate public health, safety, or the environment, unless the General Services Administration specifically designates it to be a covered transaction.
(f) An incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations.
(g) Any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law.
§ 105-68.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
(a) Covered transactions under this part—
(1) Do not include any procurement contracts awarded directly by a Federal agency; but
(2) Do include some procurement contracts awarded by non-Federal participants in nonprocurement covered transactions (see appendix to this part).
(b) Specifically, a contract for goods or services is a covered transaction if any of the following applies:
(1) The contract is awarded by a participant in a nonprocurement transaction that is covered under § 105-68.210, and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000.
(2) The contract requires the consent of a(n) GSA official. In that case, the contract, regardless of the amount, always is a covered transaction, and it does not matter who awarded it. For example, it could be a subcontract awarded by a contractor at a tier below a nonprocurement transaction, as shown in the appendix to this part.
(3) The contract is for federally-required audit services.
§ 105-68.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?
As a participant in a transaction, you will know that it is a covered transaction because the agency regulations governing the transaction, the appropriate agency official, or participant at the next higher tier who enters into the transaction with you, will tell you that you must comply with applicable portions of this part.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
§ 105-68.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
When you enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier, you must verify that the person with whom you intend to do business is not excluded or disqualified. You do this by:
(a) Checking the
EPLS;
or
(b) Collecting a certification from that person if allowed by this rule; or
(c) Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that person.
§ 105-68.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as a participant may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person, unless the General Services Administration grants an exception under § 105-68.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you have obtained an exception under the disqualifying statute, Executive order, or regulation.
§ 105-68.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue covered transactions with an excluded person if the transactions were in existence when the agency excluded the person. However, you are not required to continue the transactions, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, unless the General Services Administration grants an exception under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction if you were using the services of that person in the transaction before the person was excluded. However, you are not required to continue using that person's services as a principal. You should make a decision about whether to discontinue that person's services only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not begin to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction unless the General Services Administration grants an exception under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
Yes, you as a participant are responsible for determining whether any of your principals of your covered transactions is excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction. You may decide the method and frequency by which you do so. You may, but you are not required to, check the
EPLS.
§ 105-68.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
If as a participant you knowingly do business with an excluded person, we may disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, debar or suspend you, or take other remedies as appropriate.
§ 105-68.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
Before entering into a covered transaction with a participant at the next lower tier, you must require that participant to—
(a) Comply with this subpart as a condition of participation in the transaction. You may do so using any method(s), unless § 105-68.440 requires you to use specific methods.
(b) Pass the requirement to comply with this subpart to each person with
whom the participant enters into a covered transaction at the next lower tier.

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
§ 105-68.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the General Services Administration?
Before you enter into a covered transaction at the primary tier, you as the participant must notify the GSA office that is entering into the transaction with you, if you know that you or any of the principals for that covered transaction:
(a) Are presently excluded or disqualified;
(b) Have been convicted within the preceding three years of any of the offenses listed in § 105-68.800(a) or had a civil judgment rendered against you for one of those offenses within that time period;
(c) Are presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses listed in § 105-68.800(a); or
(d) Have had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated within the preceding three years for cause or default.
§ 105-68.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 105-68.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
As a primary tier participant, your disclosure of unfavorable information about yourself or a principal under § 105-68.335 will not necessarily cause us to deny your participation in the covered transaction. We will consider the information when we determine whether to enter into the covered transaction. We also will consider any additional information or explanation that you elect to submit with the disclosed information.
§ 105-68.345
What happens if I fail to disclose information required under § 105-68.335?
If we later determine that you failed to disclose information under § 105-68.335 that you knew at the time you entered into the covered transaction, we may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 105-68.350
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 105-68.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the General Services Administration?
At any time after you enter into a covered transaction, you must give immediate written notice to the GSA office with which you entered into the transaction if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 105-68.335; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 105-68.335.

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
§ 105-68.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
Before you enter into a covered transaction with a person at the next higher tier, you as a lower tier participant must notify that person if you know that you or any of the principals are presently excluded or disqualified.
§ 105-68.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 105-68.355?
If we later determine that you failed to tell the person at the higher tier that you were excluded or disqualified at the time you entered into the covered transaction with that person, we may pursue any available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 105-68.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 105-68.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?
At any time after you enter into a lower tier covered transaction with a
person at a higher tier, you must provide immediate written notice to that person if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 105-68.355; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 105-68.355.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of GSA Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 105-68.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as an agency official may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person unless you obtain an exception under § 105-68.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 105-68.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
As an agency official, you may not enter into a covered transaction with a participant if you know that a principal of the transaction is excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
After entering into a covered transaction with a participant, you as an agency official may not approve a participant's use of an excluded person as a principal under that transaction, unless you obtain an exception under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
(a) You as an agency official may continue covered transactions with an excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, if the transactions were in existence when the person was excluded. You are not required to continue the transactions, however, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, unless you obtain an exception under § 105-68.120.
§ 105-68.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
If a transaction at a lower tier is subject to your approval, you as an agency official may not approve—
(a) A covered transaction with a person who is currently excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 105-68.120; or
(b) A transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 105-68.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
As an agency official, you must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you—
(a) Enter into a primary tier covered transaction;
(b) Approve a principal in a primary tier covered transaction;
(c) Approve a lower tier participant if agency approval of the lower tier participant is required; or
(d) Approve a principal in connection with a lower tier transaction if agency approval of the principal is required.
§ 105-68.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
You check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified in two ways:
(a) You as an agency official must check the
EPLS
when you take any action listed in § 105-68.425.
(b) You must review information that a participant gives you, as required by § 105-68.335, about its status or the status of the principals of a transaction.
§ 105-68.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
You as an agency official must require each participant in a primary tier covered transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of this part as a condition of participation in the transaction; and
(b) Communicate the requirement to comply with Subpart C of this part to persons at the next lower tier with whom the primary tier participant enters into covered transactions.
§ 105-68.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
To communicate the requirement, you must include a term or condition in the transaction requiring the participants' compliance with subpart C of this part and requiring them to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
[68 FR 66627, Nov. 26, 2003]
§ 105-68.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
If a participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person, you as an agency official may refer the matter for suspension and debarment consideration. You may also disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, or take any other appropriate remedy.
§ 105-68.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 105-68.335?
If you as an agency official determine that a participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 105-68.335, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with you, you may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 105-68.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 105-68.355 to the next higher tier?
If you as an agency official determine that a lower tier participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 105-68.355, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with a participant at the next higher tier, you may pursue any remedies available to you, including the initiation of a suspension or debarment action.

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
§ 105-68.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
The
EPLS
is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.
§ 105-68.505
Who uses the EPLS?
(a) Federal agency officials use the
EPLS
to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 105-68.430.
(b) Participants also may, but are not required to, use the
EPLS
to determine if—
(1) Principals of their transactions are excluded or disqualified, as required under § 105-68.320; or
(2) Persons with whom they are entering into covered transactions at the next lower tier are excluded or disqualified.
(c) The
EPLS
is available to the general public.
§ 105-68.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
In accordance with the OMB guidelines, the General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS.
When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 105-68.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
(a) At a minimum, the
EPLS
indicates—
(1) The full name (where available) and address of each excluded or disqualified person, in alphabetical order, with cross references if more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for the action;
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action; and
(7) The Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), or other similar code approved by the GSA, of the excluded or disqualified person, if available.
(b)(1) The database for the
EPLS
includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
(2) Agencies disclose the SSN of an individual to verify the identity of an individual, only if permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if appropriate, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a).
§ 105-68.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
Federal officials who take actions to exclude persons under this part or officials who are responsible for identifying disqualified persons must enter the following information about those persons into the
EPLS
:
(a) Information required by § 105-68.515(a);
(b) The Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of the excluded or disqualified person, including the social security number (SSN) for an individual, if the number is available and may be disclosed under law;
(c) Information about an excluded or disqualified person, generally within five working days, after—
(1) Taking an exclusion action;
(2) Modifying or rescinding an exclusion action;
(3) Finding that a person is disqualified; or
(4) Finding that there has been a change in the status of a person who is listed as disqualified.
§ 105-68.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
If you have questions about a person in the
EPLS,
ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the
EPLS.
You may find the agency point of contact from the
EPLS.
§ 105-68.530
Where can I find the EPLS?
(a) You may access the
EPLS
through the Internet, currently at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
(b) As of November 26, 2003, you may also subscribe to a printed version. However, we anticipate discontinuing the printed version. Until it is discontinued, you may obtain the printed version by purchasing a yearly subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or by calling the Government Printing Office Inquiry and Order Desk at (202) 783-3238.

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
§ 105-68.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
When we receive information from any source concerning a cause for suspension or debarment, we will promptly report and investigate it. We refer the question of whether to suspend or debar you to our suspending or debarring official for consideration, if appropriate.
§ 105-68.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
Suspension differs from debarment in that—
A suspending official . . .
A debarring official . . .
(a) Imposes suspension as a temporary status of ineligibility for procurement and nonprocurement transactions, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings
Imposes debarment for a specified period as a final determination that a person is not presently responsible.
(b) Must—
(1) Have
adequate evidence
that there may be a cause for debarment of a person; and
(2) Conclude that
immediate action
is necessary to protect the Federal interest
Must conclude, based on a
preponderance of the evidence,
that the person has engaged in conduct that warrants debarment.
(c) Usually imposes the suspension
first,
and then promptly notifies the suspended person, giving the person an opportunity to contest the suspension and have it lifted
Imposes debarment
after
giving the respondent notice of the action and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 105-68.610
What procedures does the General Services Administration use in suspension and debarment actions?
In deciding whether to suspend or debar you, we handle the actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness.
(a) For suspension actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart G of this part.
(b) For debarment actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart H of this part.
§ 105-68.615
How does the General Services Administration notify a person of a suspension or debarment action?
(a) The suspending or debarring official sends a written notice to the last known street address, facsimile number, or e-mail address of—
(1) You or your identified counsel; or
(2) Your agent for service of process, or any of your partners, officers, directors, owners, or joint venturers.
(b) The notice is effective if sent to any of these persons.
§ 105-68.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
Yes, when more than one Federal agency has an interest in a suspension or debarment, the agencies may consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their suspension and debarment actions.
§ 105-68.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment?
If you are suspended or debarred, the suspension or debarment is effective as follows:
(a) Your suspension or debarment constitutes suspension or debarment of all of your divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the suspension or debarment decision is limited—
(1) By its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions, or other organizational elements; or
(2) To specific types of transactions.
(b) Any affiliate of a participant may be included in a suspension or debarment action if the suspending or debarring official—
(1) Officially names the affiliate in the notice; and
(2) Gives the affiliate an opportunity to contest the action.
§ 105-68.630
May the General Services Administration impute conduct of one person to another?
For purposes of actions taken under this rule, we may impute conduct as follows:
(a)
Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
(b)
Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
(c)
Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
§ 105-68.635
May the General Services Administration settle a debarment or suspension action?
Yes, we may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Federal Government.
§ 105-68.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
Yes, if we enter into a settlement with you in which you agree to be excluded, it is called a voluntary exclusion and has governmentwide effect.
§ 105-68.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the General Services Administration agrees to a voluntary exclusion?
(a) Yes, we enter information regarding a voluntary exclusion into the
EPLS.
(b) Also, any agency or person may contact us to find out the details of a voluntary exclusion.

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 105-68.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
Suspension is a serious action. Using the procedures of this subpart and subpart F of this part, the suspending official may impose suspension only when that official determines that—
(a) There exists an indictment for, or other adequate evidence to suspect, an offense listed under § 105-68.800(a), or
(b) There exists adequate evidence to suspect any other cause for debarment listed under § 105-68.800(b) through (d); and
(c) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.
§ 105-68.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
(a) In determining the adequacy of the evidence to support the suspension, the suspending official considers how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. During this assessment, the suspending official may examine the basic documents, including grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, contracts, and other relevant documents.
(b) An indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual and/or legal matters, constitutes adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
(c) In deciding whether immediate action is needed to protect the public interest, the suspending official has wide discretion. For example, the suspending official may infer the necessity for immediate action to protect the public interest either from the nature of the circumstances giving rise to a cause for suspension or from potential business relationships or involvement with a program of the Federal Government.
§ 105-68.710
When does a suspension take effect?
A suspension is effective when the suspending official signs the decision to suspend.
§ 105-68.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
After deciding to suspend you, the suspending official promptly sends you a Notice of Suspension advising you—
(a) That you have been suspended;
(b) That your suspension is based on—
(1) An indictment;
(2) A conviction;
(3) Other adequate evidence that you have committed irregularities which seriously reflect on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with you; or
(4) Conduct of another person that has been imputed to you, or your affiliation with a suspended or debarred person;
(c) Of any other irregularities in terms sufficient to put you on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) upon which we relied under § 105-68.700 for imposing suspension;
(e) That your suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or resulting legal or debarment proceedings;
(f) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, subpart F of this part, and any other GSA procedures governing suspension decision making; and
(g) Of the governmentwide effect of your suspension from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 105-68.720
How may I contest a suspension?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a suspension, you or your representative must provide the suspending official with information in opposition to the suspension. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 105-68.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make rrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the suspending official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Suspension.
(b) We consider the notice to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 105-68.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the suspending official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Suspension. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, state, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Suspension that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the General Services Administration may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 105-68.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) Your suspension is based upon an indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other finding by a Federal, State, or local body for which an opportunity to contest the facts was provided;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Suspension;
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the suspension are not factual in nature, or are not material to the suspending official's initial decision to suspend, or the official's decision whether to continue the suspension; or
(4) On the basis of advice from the Department of Justice, an office of the United States Attorney, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office, that substantial interests of the government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced by conducting fact-finding.
(b) You will have an opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the suspending official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 105-68.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
(a) Suspension proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The suspending official may use flexible procedures to allow you to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the suspending official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base a final suspension decision.
(b) You as a respondent or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the suspending official to consider.
§ 105-68.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the General Services Administration agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 105-68.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
(a) The suspending official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the suspending official's initial decision to suspend you;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or opposition to, the suspension; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(b) The suspending official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any resulting findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 105-68.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
The suspending official must make a written decision whether to continue, modify, or terminate your suspension within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the suspending official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The suspending official may extend that period for good cause.
§ 105-68.760
How long may my suspension last?
(a) If legal or debarment proceedings are initiated at the time of, or during your suspension, the suspension may continue until the conclusion of those proceedings. However, if proceedings are not initiated, a suspension may not exceed 12 months.
(b) The suspending official may extend the 12 month limit under paragraph (a) of this section for an additional 6 months if an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests an extension in writing. In no event may a suspension exceed 18 months without initiating proceedings under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The suspending official must notify the appropriate officials under paragraph (b) of this section of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12 month period expires to allow the officials an opportunity to request an extension.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 105-68.800
What are the causes for debarment?
We may debar a person for—
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for—
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects your present responsibility;
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as—
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction;
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, before August 25, 1995;
(2) Knowingly doing business with an ineligible person, except as permitted under § 105-68.120;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 105-68.640 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701); or
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects your present responsibility.
§ 105-68.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
After consideration of the causes in § 105-68.800 of this subpart, if the debarring official proposes to debar you, the official sends you a Notice of Proposed Debarment, pursuant to § 105-68.615, advising you—
(a) That the debarring official is considering debarring you;
(b) Of the reasons for proposing to debar you in terms sufficient to put you on notice of the conduct or transactions upon which the proposed debarment is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) under § 105-68.800 upon which the debarring official relied for proposing your debarment;
(d) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, subpart F of this part,
and any other GSA procedures governing debarment; and
(e) Of the governmentwide effect of a debarment from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 105-68.810
When does a debarment take effect?
A debarment is not effective until the debarring official issues a decision. The debarring official does not issue a decision until the respondent has had an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 105-68.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a proposed debarment, you or your representative must provide the debarring official with information in opposition to the proposed debarment. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 105-68.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the debarring official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Proposed Debarment.
(b) We consider the Notice of Proposed Debarment to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 105-68.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the debarring official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in § 105-68.860. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Proposed Debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the General Services Administration may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 105-68.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) Your debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment; or
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the proposed debarment are not factual in nature, or are not material to the debarring official's decision whether to debar.
(b) You will have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the debarring official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 105-68.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
(a) Debarment proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow you as a respondent to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the debarring official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base the decision whether to debar.
(b) You or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the debarring official to consider.
§ 105-68.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the General Services Administration agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 105-68.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
(a) The debarring official may debar you for any of the causes in § 105-68.800. However, the official need not debar you even if a cause for debarment exists. The official may consider the seriousness of your acts or omissions and the mitigating or aggravating factors set forth at § 105-68.860.
(b) The debarring official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the debarring official's proposed debarment;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed debarment; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(c) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any resultant findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 105-68.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
(a) In any debarment action, we must establish the cause for debarment by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard of proof is met.
§ 105-68.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
(a) We have the burden to prove that a cause for debarment exists.
(b) Once a cause for debarment is established, you as a respondent have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the debarring official that you are presently responsible and that debarment is not necessary.
§ 105-68.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
This section lists the mitigating and aggravating factors that the debarring official may consider in determining whether to debar you and the length of your debarment period. The debarring official may consider other factors if appropriate in light of the circumstances of a particular case. The existence or nonexistence of any factor, such as one of those set forth in this section, is not necessarily determinative of your present responsibility. In making a debarment decision, the debarring official may consider the following factors:
(a) The actual or potential harm or impact that results or may result from the wrongdoing.
(b) The frequency of incidents and/or duration of the wrongdoing.
(c) Whether there is a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing. For example, if you have been found by another Federal agency or a State agency to have engaged in wrongdoing similar to that found in the debarment action, the existence of this fact may be used by the debarring official in determining that you have a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing.
(d) Whether you are or have been excluded or disqualified by an agency of the Federal Government or have not been allowed to participate in State or local contracts or assistance agreements on a basis of conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(e) Whether you have entered into an administrative agreement with a Federal agency or a State or local government that is not governmentwide but is based on conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(f) Whether and to what extent you planned, initiated, or carried out the wrongdoing.
(g) Whether you have accepted responsibility for the wrongdoing and recognize the seriousness of the misconduct that led to the cause for debarment.
(h) Whether you have paid or agreed to pay all criminal, civil and administrative liabilities for the improper activity, including any investigative or administrative costs incurred by the government, and have made or agreed to make full restitution.
(i) Whether you have cooperated fully with the government agencies during the investigation and any court or administrative action. In determining the extent of cooperation, the debarring official may consider when the cooperation began and whether you disclosed all pertinent information known to you.
(j) Whether the wrongdoing was pervasive within your organization.
(k) The kind of positions held by the individuals involved in the wrongdoing.
(l) Whether your organization took appropriate corrective action or remedial measures, such as establishing ethics training and implementing programs to prevent recurrence.
(m) Whether your principals tolerated the offense.
(n) Whether you brought the activity cited as a basis for the debarment to the attention of the appropriate government agency in a timely manner.
(o) Whether you have fully investigated the circumstances surrounding the cause for debarment and, if so, made the result of the investigation available to the debarring official.
(p) Whether you had effective standards of conduct and internal control systems in place at the time the questioned conduct occurred.
(q) Whether you have taken appropriate disciplinary action against the individuals responsible for the activity which constitutes the cause for debarment.
(r) Whether you have had adequate time to eliminate the circumstances within your organization that led to the cause for the debarment.
(s) Other factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case.
§ 105-68.865
How long may my debarment last?
(a) If the debarring official decides to debar you, your period of debarment will be based on the seriousness of the cause(s) upon which your debarment is based. Generally, debarment should not exceed three years. However, if circumstances warrant, the debarring official may impose a longer period of debarment.
(b) In determining the period of debarment, the debarring official may consider the factors in § 105-68.860. If a suspension has preceded your debarment, the debarring official must consider the time you were suspended.
(c) If the debarment is for a violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, your period of debarment may not exceed five years.
§ 105-68.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
(a) The debarring official must make a written decision whether to debar within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the debarring official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The debarring official may extend that period for good cause.
(b) The debarring official sends you written notice, pursuant to § 105-68.615 that the official decided, either—
(1) Not to debar you; or
(2) To debar you. In this event, the notice:
(i) Refers to the Notice of Proposed Debarment;
(ii) Specifies the reasons for your debarment;
(iii) States the period of your debarment, including the effective dates; and
(iv) Advises you that your debarment is effective for covered transactions and contracts that are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee grants an exception.
§ 105-68.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
Yes, as a debarred person you may ask the debarring official to reconsider the debarment decision or to reduce the time period or scope of the debarment. However, you must put your request in writing and support it with documentation.
§ 105-68.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
The debarring official may reduce or terminate your debarment based on—
(a) Newly discovered material evidence;
(b) A reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which your debarment was based;
(c) A bona fide change in ownership or management;
(d) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(e) Other reasons the debarring official finds appropriate.
§ 105-68.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?
(a) Yes, the debarring official may extend a debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b) However, the debarring official may not extend a debarment solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based.
(c) If the debarring official decides that a debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official must follow the applicable procedures in this subpart, and subpart F of this part, to extend the debarment.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 105-68.900
Adequate evidence.
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
§ 105-68.905
Affiliate.
Persons are
affiliates
of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
(a) Interlocking management or ownership;
(b) Identity of interests among family members;
(c) Shared facilities and equipment;
(d) Common use of employees; or
(e) A business entity which has been organized following the exclusion of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the excluded person.
§ 105-68.910
Agency.
Agency
means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.
§ 105-68.915
Agent or representative.
Agent or representative
means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.
§ 105-68.920
Civil judgment.
Civil judgment
means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
§ 105-68.925
Conviction.
Conviction
means—
(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or
(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.
§ 105-68.930
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.
§ 105-68.935
Debarring official.
(a)
Debarring official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 105-68.940
Disqualified.
Disqualified
means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
(a) The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276(a));
(b) The equal employment opportunity acts and Executive orders; or
(c) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7606), Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368) and Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799).
§ 105-68.945
Excluded or exclusion.
Excluded or exclusion
means—
(a) That a person or commodity is prohibited from being a participant in covered transactions, whether the person has been suspended; debarred; proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; voluntarily excluded; or
(b) The act of excluding a person.
§ 105-68.950
Excluded Parties List System
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The
EPLS
system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.
§ 105-68.955
Indictment.
Indictment
means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
§ 105-68.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
Ineligible or ineligibility
means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.
§ 105-68.965
Legal proceedings.
Legal proceedings
means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.
§ 105-68.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
(a)
Nonprocurement transaction
means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Grants.
(2) Cooperative agreements.
(3) Scholarships.
(4) Fellowships.
(5) Contracts of assistance.
(6) Loans.
(7) Loan guarantees.
(8) Subsidies.
(9) Insurances.
(10) Payments for specified uses.
(11) Donation agreements.
(b) A nonprocurement transaction at any tier does not require the transfer of Federal funds.
§ 105-68.975
Notice.
Notice
means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 105-68. 615.)
§ 105-68.980
Participant.
Participant
means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.
§ 105-68.985
Person.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.
§ 105-68.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
§ 105-68.995
Principal.
Principal
means—
(a) An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person within a participant with management or supervisory responsibilities related to a covered transaction; or
(b) A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who—
(1) Is in a position to handle Federal funds;
(2) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or,
(3) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the covered transaction.
§ 105-68.1000
Respondent.
Respondent
means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.
§ 105-68.1005
State.
(a)
State
means—
(1) Any of the states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(4) Any territory or possession of the United States; or
(5) Any agency or instrumentality of a state.
(b) For purposes of this part,
State
does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.
§ 105-68.1010
Suspending official.
(a)
Suspending official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 105-68.1015
Suspension.
Suspension
is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.
§ 105-68.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
(a)
Voluntary exclusion
means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
(b)
Voluntarily excluded
means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 105-68, App.

# Appendix to Part 105-68—Covered Transactions
ER26NO03.000
Pt. 105-69

# PART 105-69—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
105-69.100
Conditions on use of funds.
105-69.105
Definitions.
105-69.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
105-69.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
105-69.205
Professional and technical services.
105-69.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
105-69.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
105-69.400
Penalties.
105-69.405
Penalty procedures.
105-69.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
105-69.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
105-69.600
Semi-annual compilation.
105-69.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 105-69—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 105-69—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Sec. 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6753, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 105-69.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 105-69.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct
appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as
soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 105-69.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required
at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 105-69.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 105-69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 105-69.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 105-69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and
solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 105-69.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 105-69.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 105-69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 105-69.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 105-69.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 105-69.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 105-69.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 105-69.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 105-69.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 105-69.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 105-69, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 105-69—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure
Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 105-69, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 105-69—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC21OC91.008
EC21OC91.009
EC21OC91.010
Pt. 105-70

# PART 105-70—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986
Sec.
105-70.000
Scope.
105-70.001
Basis.
105-70.002
Definitions.
105-70.003
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
105-70.004
Investigation.
105-70.005
Review by the reviewing official.
105-70.006
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
105-70.007
Complaint.
105-70.008
Service of complaint.
105-70.009
Answer.
105-70.010
Default upon failure to file an answer.
105-70.011
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
105-70.012
Notice of hearing.
105-70.013
Parties to the hearing.
105-70.014
Separation of functions.
105-70.015
Ex parte contacts.
105-70.016
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
105-70.017
Rights of parties.
105-70.018
Authority of the ALJ.
105-70.019
Prehearing conferences.
105-70.020
Disclosure of documents.
105-70.021
Discovery.
105-70.022
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
105-70.023
Subpoena for attendance at hearing.
105-70.024
Protective order.
105-70.025
Fees.
105-70.026
Form, filing and service of papers.
105-70.027
Computation of time.
105-70.028
Motions.
105-70.029
Sanctions.
105-70.030
The hearing and burden of proof.
105-70.031
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
105-70.032
Location of hearing.
105-70.033
Witnesses.
105-70.034
Evidence.
105-70.035
The record.
105-70.036
Post-hearing briefs.
105-70.037
Initial decision.
105-70.038
Reconsideration of initial decision.
105-70.039
Appeal to Authority Head.
105-70.040
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
105-70.041
Stay pending appeal.
105-70.042
Judicial review.
105-70.043
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
105-70.044
Right to administrative offset.
105-70.045
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
105-70.046
Compromise or settlement.
105-70.047
Limitations.

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 31 U.S.C. 3809.

# Source:
52 FR 45188, Nov. 25, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105-70.000
Scope.
This part (a) establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents, and (b) specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
§ 105-70.001
Basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99-509, 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), to be codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. 31 U.S.C. 3809 of the statute requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute.
§ 105-70.002
Definitions.
The following shall have the meanings ascribed to them below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(a)
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
(b)
Authority
means the General Services Administration.
(c)
Authority Head
means the Administrator or Deputy Administrator of General Services.
(d)
Benefit
means, in the context of statements, anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.
(e)
Claim
means any request, demand or submission—
(1) Made to the Authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);
(2) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Authority or to a party to a contract with the Authority—
(i) For property or services if the United States—
(A) Provided such property or services;
(B) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(C) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(ii) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—
(A) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded, or
(B) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request of demand; or
(3) Made to the Authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
(f)
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 105-70.007.
(g)
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 105-70.007 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 105-70.003.
(h)
Individual
means a natural person.
(i)
Initial Decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 105-70.010 or § 105-70.037, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
(j)
Investigating Official
means the Inspector General of the General Services Administration or an officer or employee of the Office of the Inspector General designated by the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
(k)
Knows or has reason to know
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
(1) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(2) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(3) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
(l)
Makes,
wherever it appears, shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires, “making” or “made”, shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
(m)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization.
(n)
Representative
means an attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. (An individual may appear
pro se;
a corporate officer or an owner may represent a business entity.)
(o)
Reviewing Official
means the General Counsel of the General Services Administration or his designee who is—
(1) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; and
(2) Not employed in the organizational unit of the authority in which the investigating official is employed; and
(3) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
(p)
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
(1) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(2) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—
(i) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
