U.S. persons are reminded that requests that are on their face boycott-related or that are for action obviously in furtherance or support of an unsanctioned foreign boycott are subject to this part of the EAR, irrespective of the country of origination. For example, requests containing references to “blacklisted companies,” “Israel boycott list,” “non-Israeli goods,” or other phrases or words indicating a boycott purpose would be subject to the appropriate provisions of the Department's antiboycott regulations in this part.
[86 FR 30536, June 9, 2021]
Pt. 762

# PART 762—RECORDKEEPING
Sec.
762.1
Scope.
762.2
Records to be retained.
762.3
Records exempt from recordkeeping requirements.
762.4
Original records required.
762.5
Reproduction of original records.
762.6
Period of retention.
762.7
Producing and inspecting records.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.

# Source:
61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 762.1
Scope.
In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C.
(a)
Transactions subject to this part.
The recordkeeping provisions of this part apply to the following transactions:
(1) Transactions involving restrictive trade practices or boycotts described in part 760 of the EAR;
(2) Exports of commodities, software, or technology from the United States and any known reexports, transfers (in-country), transshipment, or diversions of items exported from the United States;
(3) Exports to Canada, if, at any stage in the transaction, it appears that a person in a country other than the United States or Canada has an interest therein, or that the item involved is to be reexported, transshipped, or diverted from Canada to another foreign country; or
(4) Any other transactions subject to the EAR, including, but not limited to, the prohibitions against servicing, forwarding and other actions for or on behalf of end-users of proliferation concern contained in §§ 736.2(b)(7) and 744.6 of the EAR. This part also applies to all negotiations connected with those transactions, except that for export control matters a mere preliminary inquiry or offer to do business and negative response thereto shall not constitute negotiations, unless the inquiry or offer to do business proposes a transaction that a reasonably prudent exporter would believe likely to lead to a violation of the EAA, the EAR or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
(b)
Persons subject to this part.
Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who, as principal or agent (including a forwarding agent), participates in any transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, and any person in the United States or abroad who is required to make and maintain records under any provision of the EAR, shall keep and maintain all records described in § 762.2 of this part that are made or obtained by that person and shall produce them in a manner provided by § 762.7 of this part.
[61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 22249, Apr. 29, 2005; 78 FR 13471, Feb. 28, 2013; 87 FR 57106, Sept. 16, 2022]
§ 762.2
Records to be retained.
(a)
Records required to be retained.
The records required to be retained under this part 762 include the following:
(1) Export control documents as defined in part 772 of the EAR, except parties submitting documents electronically to BIS via the SNAP-R system are not required to retain copies of documents so submitted;
(2) Memoranda;
(3) Notes;
(4) Correspondence;
(5) Contracts;
(6) Invitations to bid;
(7) Books of account;
(8) Financial records;
(9) Restrictive trade practice or boycott documents and reports;
(10) Notification from BIS of an application being returned without action; notification by BIS of an application being denied; notification by BIS of the results of a commodity classification or encryption review request conducted by BIS;
(11) The serial number, make, model, and caliber for any firearm controlled in ECCNs 0A501.a, 0A506, or 0A507 and for shotguns with barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in 0A502 and 0A508 that have been exported. The “exporter” or any other party to the transaction (see § 758.3 of the EAR), that creates or receives such records is a person responsible for retaining this record; and
(12) Other records pertaining to the types of transactions described in § 762.1(a) of this part, which are made or obtained by a person described in § 762.1(b) of this part.
(b)
Records retention references.
Paragraph (a) of this section describes records that are required to be retained. Other parts, sections, or supplements of the EAR which require the retention of records or contain recordkeeping provisions, include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) § 732.6, Steps for other requirements;
(2) § 734.4(g),
de minimis
calculation (method);
(3) Section 734.9(h), Foreign Direct Product (FDP) supply chain certification;
(4) Part 736, General Prohibitions;
(5) § 740.1, Introduction (to License Exceptions);
(6) § 740.9(a)(3)(i)(B), Tools of trade: Temporary exports, reexports, and transfers (in country) of technology by U.S. persons (TMP);
(7) § 740.10(c), Servicing and replacement of parts and equipment (RPL);
(8) § 740.11(b)(2)(iii) and (iv), Exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) made for or on behalf of a department or agency of the U.S. Government and Items exported at the direction of the U.S. Department of Defense (GOV);
(9) § 740.12, Humanitarian donations (GFT);
(10) § 740.13(h), Technology and software—unrestricted (TSU);
(11) § 740.20(g), Responses to License Exception STA eligibility requests for “600 series” end items (STA);
(12) § 743.1, Wassenaar reports;
(13) § 743.2, High Performance Computers;
(14) § 743.4(c)(1) and (c)(2), Conventional arms reporting;
(15) § 745.1, Annual reports;
(16) § 745.2, End-use certificates;
(17) § 746.3 Iraq;
(18) [Reserved]
(19) § 748.1(d)(2), Procedure for requesting authorization to file paper applications, notifications, or requests;
(20) § 748.4(b), Disclosure of parties on license applications and the power of attorney;
(21) § 748.6, General instructions for license applications;
(22) § 748.9, Support documents for license applications;
(23) § 748.10, PRC End-User Statement;
(24) § 748.11, Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser;
(25) § 748.12, Firearms Convention (FC) Import Certificate;
(26) [Reserved]
(27) Supplement No. 2 to Part 748 paragraph (c)(2), Security Safeguard Plan requirement
;
(28) § 750.7, Issuance of license and acknowledgment of conditions;
(29) § 750.8, Revocation or suspension of license;
(30) § 750.9, Duplicate licenses;
(31) § 750.10, Transfer of licenses for export;
(32)-(39) [Reserved]
(40) § 754.4, Unprocessed western red cedar;
(41) § 758.1 and § 758.2, Automated Export System record;
(42) § 758.1(h), Record and proof of agent's authority;
(43) § 758.3(b), Routed Export Transactions;
(44) § 758.6, Destination control statements;
(45) § 760.5, Reporting requirements;
(46) § 762.2, Records to be retained;
(47) § 764.2, Violations;
(48) § 764.5, Voluntary self-disclosure;
(49) § 766.10, Subpoenas;
(50) § 772.2, “Specially designed” definition, note to paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6);
(51) § 740.20, note to paragraph (c)(1), License Exception STA prior approval on a BIS or DDTC license (STA);
(52) § 744.15(b), UVL statement as well as any logs or records created for multiple exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country);
(53) § 750.7(c)(2), Notification of name change by advisory opinion request;
(54) § 748.13, Certain Hong Kong import and export licenses;
and
(55) § 740.23, License Exception MED.
(56) § 740.25, License Exception HBM.
(57) § 740.26, License Exception RFF.
(c)
Special recordkeeping requirement
—(1)
Libya.
Persons in receipt of a specific license granted by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) for the export to Libya of any item subject to the EAR must maintain a record of those items transferred to Libya pursuant to such specific license and record when the items are consumed or destroyed in the normal course of their use in Libya, reexported to a third country not requiring further authorization from BIS, or returned to the United States. This requirement applies only to items subject to a license requirement under the EAR for export to Libya as of April 29, 2004. These records must include the following information:
(i) Date of export or reexport and related details (including means of transport);
(ii) Description of items (including ECCN) and value of items in U.S. Dollars;
(iii) Description of proposed end-use and locations in Libya where items are intended to be used;
(iv) Parties other than specific OFAC licensee who may be given temporary access to the items; and
(v) Date of consumption or destruction, if the items are consumed or destroyed in the normal course of their use in Libya, or the date of reexport to a third country not requiring further authorization from BIS, or return to the United States.
(2) [Reserved]
[61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 762.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 762.3
Records exempt from recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The following types of records have been determined to be exempt from the recordkeeping requirement procedures:
(1) Export information page;
(2) Special export file list;
(3) Vessel log from freight forwarder;
(4) Inspection certificate;
(5) Warranty certificate, except for a warranty certificate issued for an address located outside the United States for any firearm controlled in ECCNs 0A501.a or .b, 0A506 or 0A507 and for shotguns with barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in 0A502 or 0A508;
(6) Guarantee certificate;
(7) Packing material certificate;
(8) Goods quality certificate;
(9) Notification to customer of advance meeting;
(10) Letter of indemnity;
(11) Financial release form;
(12) Financial hold form;
(13) Export parts shipping problem form;
(14) Draft number log;
(15) Expense invoice mailing log;
(16) Financial status report;
(17) Bank release of guarantees;
(18) Cash sheet;
(19) Commission payment back-up;
(20) Commissions payable worksheet;
(21) Commissions payable control;
(22) Check request forms;
(23) Accounts receivable correction form;
(24) Check request register;
(25) Commission payment printout;
(26) Engineering fees invoice;
(27) Foreign tax receipt;
(28) Individual customer credit status;
(29) Request for export customers code forms;
(30) Acknowledgement for receipt of funds;
(31) Escalation development form;
(32) Summary quote;
(33) Purchase order review form;
(34) Proposal extensions;
(35) Financial proposal to export customers;
and
(36) Sales summaries.
(b) [Reserved]
[61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25469, May 9, 1997; 85 FR 4180, Jan. 23, 2020; 89 FR 34710, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 762.4
Original records required.
The regulated person must maintain the original records in the form in which that person receives or creates them unless that person meets all of the conditions of § 762.5 of this part relating to reproduction of records. If the original record does not meet the standards of legibility and readability described in § 762.5 of this part and the regulated person intends to rely on that record to meet the recordkeeping requirements of the EAR, that person must retain the original record. With respect to documents that BIS issues to a party in SNAP-R, either an electronically stored copy in a format that makes the document readable with software possessed by that party or a paper print out of the complete document is deemed to be an original record for purposes of this section.
[61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 17055, Apr. 5, 2010]
§ 762.5
Reproduction of original records.
(a) The regulated person may maintain reproductions instead of the original records provided all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(b) In order to maintain the records required by § 762.2 of this part, the regulated persons defined in § 762.1 of this part may use any photographic, photostatic, miniature photographic, micrographic, automated archival storage, or other process that completely, accurately, legibly and durably reproduces the original records (whether on paper, microfilm, or through electronic digital storage techniques). The process must meet all of the following requirements, which are applicable to all systems:
(1) The system must be capable of reproducing all records on paper.
(2) The system must record and be able to reproduce all marks, information, and other characteristics of the original record, including both obverse and reverse sides of paper documents in legible form.
(3) When displayed on a viewer, monitor, or reproduced on paper, the records must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability. (For purposes of this section, legible and legibility mean the quality of a letter or numeral that enable the observer to identify it positively and quickly to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. Readable and readability mean the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognized as complete words or numbers.)
(4) The system must preserve the initial image (including both obverse and reverse sides of paper documents) and record all changes, who made them and when they were made. This information must be stored in such a manner that none of it may be altered once it is initially recorded.
(5) The regulated person must establish written procedures to identify the individuals who are responsible for the operation, use and maintenance of the system.
(6) The regulated person must establish written procedures for inspection and quality assurance of records in the system and document the implementation of those procedures.
(7) The system must be complete and contain all records required to be kept by this part or the regulated person must provide a method for correlating, identifying and locating records relating to the same transaction(s) that are kept in other record keeping systems.
(8) The regulated person must keep a record of where, when, by whom, and
on what equipment the records and other information were entered into the system.
(9) Upon request by the Office of Export Enforcement, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, or any other agency of competent jurisdiction, the regulated person must furnish, at the examination site, the records, the equipment and, if necessary, knowledgeable personnel for locating, reading, and reproducing any record in the system.
(c)
Requirements applicable to systems based on the storage of digital images.
For systems based on the storage of digital images, the system must provide accessibility to any digital image in the system. With respect to records of transactions, including those involving restrictive trade practices or boycott requirements or requests. The system must be able to locate and reproduce all records relating to a particular transaction based on any one of the following criteria:
(1) The name(s) of the parties to the transaction;
(2) Any country(ies) connected with the transaction; or
(3) A document reference number that was on any original document.
(d)
Requirements applicable to a system based on photographic processes.
For systems based on photographic, photostatic, or miniature photographic processes, the regulated person must maintain a detailed index of all records in the system that is arranged in such a manner as to allow immediate location of any particular record in the system.
§ 762.6
Period of retention.
(a)
Five year retention period.
All records required to be kept by the EAR must be retained for five years from the latest of the following times:
(1) The export from the United States of the item involved in the transaction to which the records pertain or the provision of financing, transporting or other service for or on behalf of end-users of proliferation concern as described in §§ 736.2(b)(7) and 744.6 of the EAR;
(2) Any known reexport, transfer (in-country), transshipment, or diversion of such item;
(3) Any other termination of the transaction, whether formally in writing or by any other means; or
(4) In the case of records of pertaining to transactions involving restrictive trade practices or boycotts described in part 760 of the EAR, the date the regulated person receives the boycott-related request or requirement.
(b)
Destruction or disposal of records.
If the Bureau of Industry and Security or any other government agency makes a formal or informal request for a certain record or records, such record or records may not be destroyed or disposed of without the written authorization of the agency concerned. This prohibition applies to records pertaining to voluntary disclosures made to BIS in accordance with § 764.5(c)(4)(ii) and other records even if such records have been retained for a period of time exceeding that required by paragraph (a) of this section.
[61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 3946, Jan. 29, 2007; 87 FR 57106, Sept. 16, 2022]
§ 762.7
Producing and inspecting records.
(a)
Persons located in the United States.
Persons located in the United States may be asked to produce books, records, and other information that are required to be kept by any provision of the EAR, or any license, order, or authorization issued thereunder and to make them available for inspection and copying by any authorized official of the BIS, or any other official of the United States designated by BIS, without any charge or expense to such official. OEE and the Office of Antiboycott Compliance encourage voluntary cooperation with such requests. When voluntary cooperation is not forthcoming, OEE and the Office of Antiboycott Compliance are authorized to issue subpoenas requiring persons to appear and testify, or to produce books, records, and other writings. In instances where a person does not comply with a subpoena, the Department of Commerce may petition a district court to have the subpoena enforced.
(b)
Persons located outside of the United States.
Persons located outside of the United States that are required
to keep books, records, and other information by any provision of the EAR or by any license, order, or authorization issued thereunder shall produce all books, records, and other information required to be kept, or reproductions thereof, and make them available for inspection and copying upon request by an authorized official of BIS without any charge or expense to such official. BIS may designate any other official of the United States to exercise the authority of BIS under this subsection.
[85 FR 73416, Nov. 18, 2020]
Pt. 764

# PART 764—ENFORCEMENT AND PROTECTIVE MEASURES
Sec.
764.1
Introduction.
764.2
Violations.
764.3
Sanctions.
764.4
Reporting of violations.
764.5
Voluntary self-disclosure.
764.6
Protective administrative measures.
764.7
Activities involving items that may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya.
764.8
Voluntary self-disclosures for boycott violations.
Supplement No. 1 to Part 764—Standard Terms of Orders Denying Export Privileges

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4611-4613; 50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.

# Source:
61 FR 12902, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 764.1
Introduction.
In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part specifies conduct that constitutes a violation of the ECRA and/or the EAR and the sanctions that may be imposed for such violations. Antiboycott violations are described in part 760 of the EAR, and the violations and sanctions specified in part 764 also apply to conduct relating to part 760, unless otherwise stated. This part describes administrative sanctions that may be imposed by BIS. This part also describes criminal sanctions that may be imposed by a United States court and other sanctions that are neither administrative nor criminal pursuant to sections 11A, B, and C of the Export Administration Act EAA and other statutes. Information is provided on how to report and disclose violations. Finally, this part identifies protective administrative measures that BIS may take in the exercise of its regulatory authority.
[85 FR 73416, Nov. 18, 2020]
§ 764.2
Violations.
(a)
Engaging in prohibited conduct.
No person may engage in any transaction or take any other action prohibited by or contrary to, or refrain from engaging in any transaction or take any other action required by ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
(b)
Causing, aiding, or abetting a violation.
No person may cause or aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, procure, permit, or approve the doing of any act prohibited, or the omission of any act required, by ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
(c)
Solicitation and attempt.
No person may solicit or attempt a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.
(d)
Conspiracy.
No person may conspire or act in concert with one or more persons in any manner or for any purpose to bring about or to do any act that constitutes a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.
(e)
Acting with knowledge of a violation.
No person may order, buy, remove, conceal, store, use, sell, loan, dispose of, transfer, transport, finance, forward, or otherwise service, in whole or in part, or conduct negotiations to facilitate such activities with respect to, any item that has been, is being, or is about to be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country), or that is otherwise subject to the EAR, with knowledge that a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder, has occurred, is about to occur, or is intended to occur in connection with the item.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Misrepresentation and concealment of facts.
(1) No person may make any false or misleading representation, statement, or certification, or falsify or conceal any material fact, either directly to BIS or an official of any other
United States agency, or indirectly through any other person:
(i) In the course of an investigation or other action subject to the EAR; or
(ii) In connection with the preparation, submission, issuance, use, or maintenance of any “export control document” or any report filed or required to be filed pursuant to the EAR; or
(iii) For the purpose of or in connection with effecting an export, reexport, transfer (in-country) or other activity subject to the EAR.
(2) All representations, statements, and certifications made by any person are deemed to be continuing in effect. Every person who has made any representation, statement, or certification must notify BIS, and any other relevant agency, in writing, of any change of any material fact or intention from that previously represented, stated, or certified, immediately upon receipt of any information that would lead a reasonably prudent person to know that a change of material fact or intention has occurred or may occur in the future.
(h)
Evasion.
No person may engage in any transaction or take any other action with intent to evade the provisions of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
(i)
Failure to comply with reporting, recordkeeping requirements.
No person may fail or refuse to comply with any reporting or recordkeeping requirement of ECRA, the EAR, or of any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.
(j)
License alteration.
Except as specifically authorized in the EAR or in writing by BIS, no person may alter any license, authorization, export control document, or order issued under ECRA or the EAR.
(k)
Acting contrary to the terms of a denial order.
No person may take any action that is prohibited by a denial order or a temporary denial order issued by BIS to prevent imminent violations of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
[85 FR 73416, Nov. 18, 2020]
§ 764.3
Sanctions.
(a)
Administrative.
Violations of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder are subject to the administrative sanctions described in this section and to any other liability, sanction, or penalty available under law. The protective administrative measures that are described in § 764.6 of this part are distinct from administrative sanctions.
(1)
Civil monetary penalty.
(i) A civil monetary penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in ECRA may be imposed for each violation, and in the event that any provision of the EAR is continued or revised by IEEPA or any other authority, the maximum monetary civil penalty for each violation shall be that provided by such other authority.
(ii) The payment of any civil penalty may be made a condition, for a period not exceeding two years after the imposition of such penalty, to the granting, restoration, or continuing validity of any export license, license exception, permission, or privilege granted or to be granted to the person upon whom such penalty is imposed.
(iii) The payment of any civil penalty may be deferred or suspended in whole or in part during any probation period that may be imposed. Such deferral or suspension shall not bar the collection of the penalty if the conditions of the deferral, suspension, or probation are not fulfilled.
(2)
Denial of export privileges.
An order may be issued that restricts the ability of the named persons to engage in exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) involving items subject to the EAR, or that restricts access by named persons to items subject to the EAR. An order denying export privileges may be imposed either as a sanction for a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any other statute set forth at 50 U.S.C. 4819(e)(1)(B); or as a protective administrative measure described in § 764.6(c) or (d) of this part. An order denying export privileges may suspend or revoke any or all outstanding licenses issued under the EAR to a person named in the denial order or in which such person has an interest; may deny or restrict exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) by or to such person of
any item subject to the EAR; and may restrict dealings in which that person may benefit from any export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of such items. The standard terms of a denial order are set forth in supplement no. 1 to this part. A non-standard denial order, narrower in scope, may be issued. Authorization to engage in actions otherwise prohibited by a denial order may be given by the Office of Exporter Services, in consultation with the Office of Export Enforcement, upon a written request by a person named in the denial order or by a person seeking permission to deal with a named person. Submit such requests to: Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Exporter Services, Room 2099b, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20230.
(3)
Exclusion from practice.
Any person acting as an attorney, accountant, consultant, freight forwarder, or in any other representative capacity for any license application or other matter before BIS may be excluded by order from any or all such activities before BIS.
(b)
Criminal.
Whoever willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids and abets in the commission of, an unlawful act described in 50 U.S.C. 4819(a) shall be fined not more than $1,000,000; and in the case of the individual, shall be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(c)
Other sanctions.
Conduct that violates ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder, and other conduct specified in sections 11A, B, and C of the EAA may be subject to sanctions or other measures in addition to criminal and administrative sanctions under ECRA or the EAR. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Statutory sanctions.
Statutorily-mandated sanctions may be imposed on account of specified conduct related to weapons proliferation. Such statutory sanctions are not civil or criminal penalties, but restrict imports and procurement (See section 11A of the EAA, Multilateral Export Control Violations, and section 11C of the EAA, Chemical and Biological Weapons Proliferation), or restrict export licenses (See section 11B of the EAA, Missile Proliferation Violations, and the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-Proliferation Act of 1992).
(2)
Other sanctions and measures
—(i)
Seizure and forfeiture.
Any property seized pursuant to export laws and regulations administered or enforced by the Secretary is subject to forfeiture. (50 U.S.C. 4819(d) and 4820(j); 22 U.S.C. 401; and 13 U.S.C. 305).
(ii)
Actions by other agencies.
(A) The Department of State may not issue licenses or approvals for the export or reexport of defense articles and defense services controlled under the Arms Export Control Act to persons convicted of criminal offenses specified at 22 U.S.C. 2778(g)(1)(A), or to persons denied export privileges by BIS or another agency; and may deny such licenses or approvals where the applicant is indicted for, or any party to the export is convicted of, those specified criminal offenses. (22 CFR 126.7(a) and 127.11(a)).
(B) The Department of Defense, among other agencies, may suspend the right of any person to contract with the United States Government based on export control violations. (Federal Acquisition Regulations at 48 CFR 9.407-2).
[85 FR 73417, Nov. 18, 2020]
§ 764.4
Reporting of violations.
(a)
Where to report.
If a person learns that an export control violation of the EAR has occurred or may occur, that person may notify:
Office of Export Enforcement, Bureau of Industry and Security,U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room H-4520, Washington, D.C. 20230, Tel: (202) 482-1208, Facsimile: (202) 482-0964
or, for violations of part 760 of the EAR:
Office of Antiboycott Compliance, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room H-6099C, Washington, D.C. 20230, Tel: (202) 482-2381, Facsimile: (202) 482-0913.
(b)
Failure to report violations.
Failure to report potential violations may result in the unwarranted issuance of licenses or exports without the required
licenses to the detriment of the interests of the United States.
(c)
Reporting requirement distinguished.
The reporting provisions in paragraph (a) of this section are not “reporting requirements” within the meaning of § 764.2(i) of this part.
(d)
Formerly embargoed destinations.
Reporting requirements for activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) that involve items subject to the EAR which may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya prior to the lifting of the comprehensive embargo on Libya are found in § 764.7 of the EAR.
[61 FR 12902, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 14391, Mar. 22, 2005]
§ 764.5
Voluntary self-disclosure.
(a)
General policy.
BIS strongly encourages disclosure to the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) if you believe that you may have violated the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. As described in supplement no. 1 to part 766, voluntary self-disclosure is a mitigating factor, and a firm's deliberate decision not to disclose significant apparent violations is an aggravating factor in determining what administrative sanctions, if any, will be sought by OEE. A deliberate decision not to disclose occurs when a firm uncovers a significant apparent violation that it has committed but then chooses not to file a VSD.
(b)
Limitations.
(1) The provisions of this section do not apply to disclosures of violations relating to part 760 of the EAR.
(2) The provisions of this section apply only when information is provided to OEE for its review in determining whether to take administrative action under part 766 of the EAR for violations of the export control provisions of the EAR.
(3) The provisions of this section apply only when information is received by OEE for review prior to the time that OEE, or any other agency of the United States Government, has learned the same or substantially similar information from another source and has commenced an investigation or inquiry in connection with that information.
(4) While voluntary self-disclosure is a mitigating factor in determining what administrative sanctions, if any, will be sought by OEE, it is a factor that is considered together with all other factors in a case. The weight given to voluntary self-disclosure is solely within the discretion of OEE, and the mitigating effect of voluntary self-disclosure may be outweighed by aggravating factors. Voluntary self-disclosure does not prevent transactions from being referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. In such a case, OEE would notify the Department of Justice of the voluntary self-disclosure, but the consideration of that factor is within the discretion of the Department of Justice.
(5) A firm will not be deemed to have made a disclosure under this section unless the individual making the disclosure did so with the full knowledge and authorization of the firm's senior management.
(6) The provisions of this section do not, nor should they be relied on to, create, confer, or grant any rights, benefits, privileges, or protection enforceable at law or in equity by any person, business, or entity in any civil, criminal, administrative, or other matter.
(c)
Voluntary self-disclosures involving minor or technical violations
—(1)
General.
Any person wanting to voluntarily disclose a minor or technical violation should submit an abbreviated narrative report, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A minor or technical violation is one that does not contain any aggravating factors present as defined in section III(A) of supplement no. 1 to part 766. Examples of minor or technical violations include, but are not limited to, immaterial Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing errors, inadvertent record keeping violations resulting from failed file retrieval or retention mechanisms (
e.g.,
physical damage caused by flood or fire and/or electronic corruption due to malware, virus, or outage), incorrect use of one license exception where other license exceptions were available, etc.
(2)
Abbreviated narrative report.
The abbreviated narrative report should be submitted by email to
bis_vsd_intake@bis.doc.gov
or in writing to the address in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. The email subject line
should include the word “abbreviated” if it is an abbreviated VSD.:
(i) The notification should include:
(A) The name of the person making the disclosure and should designate a contact person regarding the abbreviated narrative report and provide that contact person's current business street address, email address, and telephone number; and
(B) A description of the general nature and extent of the violations (including, but not limited to, the destination and parties involved in any transaction, and the number, classification, and value of any items involved). Parties may itemize the various minor or technical violations in list or spreadsheet form.
(ii) The Director of OEE at their discretion may request a full narrative report pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section if OEE suspects the presence of aggravating factors which will be due in 180 days from the date of the OEE Director's request.
(3)
Bundling of minor/technical violations.
Parties may bundle multiple minor or technical violations into one overarching submission, if the violations occurred within the preceding quarter. Parties may submit such minor or technical violations into a single VSD submission on a quarterly basis using the abbreviated narrative account process identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Voluntary self-disclosures involving significant violations
—(1)
General.
Any person wanting to voluntarily disclose a significant violation should, in the manner outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, initially notify OEE as soon as possible after violations are discovered, and then conduct a thorough review of all export-related transactions where violations are suspected. A significant violation is one that involves one or more aggravating factors as defined in section III(A) of supplement no. 1 to part 766. Those unsure of whether their possible disclosure relates to a minor or technical violation, or a significant violation, should follow the procedure in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for a significant violation.
(2)
Initial notification
—(i)
Manner and content of initial notification.
The initial notification should be submitted by email to
bis_vsd_intake@bis.doc.gov
or in writing to the address in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. The notification should include the name of the person making the disclosure and a brief description of the suspected violations and should designate a contact person regarding the initial notification and provide that contact person's current business street address, email address, and telephone number. The notification should describe the general nature and extent of the violations. OEE recognizes that there may be situations where it will not be practical to make an initial notification in writing. For example, written notification may not be practical if a shipment leaves the United States without the required license, yet there is still an opportunity to prevent acquisition of the items by unauthorized persons. In such situations, OEE should be contacted promptly at the office listed in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(ii)
Initial notification date.
For purposes of calculating when a complete narrative account must be submitted under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, the initial notification date is the date the notification is received by OEE. OEE will notify the disclosing party in writing of the date that it receives the initial notification. At OEE's discretion, such writing from OEE may be on paper, or in an email message or facsimile transmission from OEE, or by any other method for the transmission of written communications. Where it is not practical to make an initial notification in writing, the person making the notification should confirm the oral notification in writing as soon as possible.
(iii)
Timely completion of narrative accounts.
The full narrative account required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section must be received by OEE within 180 days of the initial notification date for purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, absent an extension from the Director of OEE. If the person making the initial notification subsequently completes and submits to OEE the narrative account required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section such that OEE receives it within 180 days of the initial
notification date, or within the additional time, if any, granted by the Director of OEE pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, the disclosure, including violations disclosed in the narrative account that were not expressly mentioned in the initial notification, will be deemed to have been made on the initial notification date for purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the initial notification was made in compliance with paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. Failure to meet the deadline (either the initial 180-day deadline or an extended deadline granted by the Director of OEE) would not be an additional violation of the EAR, but such failure may reduce or eliminate the mitigating impact of the voluntary disclosure under supplement no. 1 to this part. For purposes of determining whether the deadline has been met under this paragraph, a complete narrative account must contain all of the pertinent information called for in paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section, and the voluntary self-disclosure must otherwise meet the requirements of this section.
(iv)
Deadline extensions.
The Director of OEE may extend the 180-day deadline upon a determination in his or her discretion that U.S. Government interests would be served by an extension or that the person making the initial notification has shown that more than 180 days is reasonably needed to complete the narrative account.
(A)
Conditions for extension.
The Director of OEE in his or her discretion may place conditions on the approval of an extension. For example, the Director of OEE may require that the disclosing person agree to toll the statute of limitations with respect to violations disclosed in the initial notification or discovered during the review for or preparation of the narrative account, and/or require the disclosing person to undertake specified interim remedial compliance measures.
(B)
Contents of request.
(
1
) In most instances 180 days should be adequate to complete the narrative account. Requests to extend the 180-day deadline set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section will be determined by the Director of OEE pursuant to his or her authority under this paragraph (d)(2)(iv) based upon his consideration and evaluation of U.S. Government interests and the facts and circumstances surrounding the request and any related investigations. Such requests should show specifically that the person making the request:
(
i
) Began its review promptly after discovery of the violations;
(
ii
) Has been conducting its review and preparation of the narrative account as expeditiously as can be expected, consistent with the need for completeness and accuracy;
(
iii
) Reasonably needs the requested extension despite having begun its review promptly after discovery of the violations and having conducted its review and preparation of the narrative account as expeditiously as can be expected consistent with the need for completeness and accuracy; and
(
iv
) Has considered whether interim compliance or other corrective measures may be needed and has undertaken such measures as appropriate to prevent recurring or additional violations.
(
2
) Such requests also should set out a proposed timeline for completion and submission of the narrative account that is reasonable under the applicable facts and circumstances and should also designate a contact person regarding the request and provide that contact person's current business street address, email address, and telephone number. Requests may also include additional information that the person making the request reasonably believes is pertinent to the request under the applicable facts and circumstances.
(C)
Timing of requests.
Requests for an extension should be made before the 180-day deadline and as soon as possible once a disclosing person determines that it will be unable to meet the deadline or the extended deadline where an extension previously has been granted, and possesses the information needed to prepare an extension request in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. Requests for extension that are not received before the deadline for completing the narrative account has passed will not be considered. Parties who request an extension shortly before the deadline incur the risk that the Director of OEE will be
unable to consider the request, determine whether or not to grant the extension, and communicate his or her decision before the deadline, and that any subsequently submitted narrative account will be considered untimely under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(3)
Full narrative.
After the initial notification, a thorough review should be conducted of export-related transactions where violations with potentially aggravating factors are suspected (as defined in section III(A) of supplement no. 1 to part 766). OEE recommends that the review cover a period of five years prior to the date of the initial notification. If your review goes back less than five years, you risk failing to discover violations that may later become the subject of an investigation. Any violations not voluntarily disclosed do not receive consideration under this section. However, the failure to make such disclosures will not be treated as a separate violation unless some other section of the EAR or other provision of law requires disclosure. Upon completion of the review, OEE should be furnished with a narrative account that sufficiently describes the suspected violations so that their nature and gravity can be assessed. The narrative account should also describe the nature of the review conducted and measures that may have been taken to minimize the likelihood that violations will occur in the future. The narrative account should include:
(i) The kind of violation involved, for example, a shipment without the required license or dealing with a party denied export privileges;
(ii) An explanation of when and how the violations occurred;
(iii) The complete identities and addresses of all individuals and organizations, whether foreign or domestic, involved in the activities giving rise to the violations;
(iv) License numbers;
(v) The description, quantity, value in U.S. dollars and ECCN or other classification of the items involved; and
(vi) A description of any mitigating circumstances.
(4)
Supporting documentation.
(i) The narrative account should be accompanied by copies of documents that explain and support it, including:
(A) Licensing documents such as licenses, license applications, import certificates and end-user statements;
(B) Shipping documents such as Shipper's Export Declarations, air waybills, bills of lading and packing lists; and
(C) Other documents such as letters, facsimiles, telexes and other evidence of written or oral communications, internal memoranda, purchase orders, invoices, letters of credit and brochures.
(ii) Any relevant documents not attached to the narrative account must be retained by the person making the disclosure until OEE requests them, or until a final decision on the disclosed information has been made. After a final decision, the documents should be maintained in accordance with the recordkeeping rules in part 762 of the EAR (15 CFR part 762).
(5)
Certification.
A certification must be submitted stating that all of the representations made in connection with the voluntary self-disclosure are true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief. Certifications made by a corporation or other organization should be signed by an official of the corporation or other organization with the authority to do so. § 764.2(g), relating to false or misleading representations, applies in connection with the disclosure of information under this section.
(6)
Oral presentations.
OEE believes that oral presentations are generally not necessary to augment the written narrative account and supporting documentation. If the person making the disclosure believes otherwise, a request for a meeting should be included with the disclosure.
(7)
Where to make voluntary self-disclosures.
The information constituting a voluntary self-disclosure or any other correspondence pertaining to a voluntary self-disclosure may be submitted by email to
bis_vsd_intake@bis.doc.gov
or mailed to: Director, Office of Export Enforcement, 1401 Constitution Ave., Room H4514, Washington, DC 20230, Tel: (202) 482-5036.
(e)
Dual-track processing of Voluntary Self-Disclosures by the Office of Export Enforcement.
(1) For VSDs that involve
minor or technical infractions, including abbreviated VSDs, OEE will generally resolve the VSD within 60 days of a final VSD submission with one of the actions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Inform the person making the disclosure that, based on the facts disclosed, it plans to take no action; or
(ii) Issue a warning letter.
(2) For VSDs that indicate significant violations, OEE will conduct an investigation, and as quickly as the facts and circumstances of a given case permit, OEE may take any of the following actions:
(i) Inform the person making the disclosure that, based on the facts disclosed, it plans to take no action;
(ii) Issue a warning letter;
(iii) Issue a proposed charging letter pursuant to § 766.18 of the EAR and attempt to settle the matter;
(iv) Issue a charging letter pursuant to § 766.3 of the EAR if a settlement is not reached; and/or
(v) Refer the matter to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution.
(f)
Criteria.
Supplement no. 1 to part 766 describes how BIS typically exercises its discretion regarding whether to pursue an administrative enforcement case under part 766 and what administrative sanctions to seek in settling such a case.
(g)
Treatment of unlawfully exported items.
(1) Any person taking certain actions with knowledge that a violation of ECRA or the EAR has occurred has violated § 764.2(e).
(i) Any person who has made a voluntary self-disclosure knows that a violation may have occurred. Therefore, at the time that a voluntary self-disclosure is made, the person making the disclosure may request permission from BIS to engage in the activities described in § 764.2(e) that would otherwise be prohibited.
(ii) Any person may also notify the Director of OEE that a violation has occurred and request permission from BIS to engage in the activities described in § 764.2(e) that would otherwise be prohibited.
(iii) Actions to return to the United States an item that has been unlawfully exported and disclosed under this section only require notification to the Director of OEE. Items subject to a violation that have been returned to the United States do not require further authorization under this paragraph (g) for future activities, provided that those future activities comply with any applicable EAR requirements.
(2) How to submit a request under paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section: A request should be submitted on letterhead, signed, and sent to the Director of the Office of Exporter
Services at
emcd@bis.doc.gov
with a copy sent to
bis_vsd_intake@bis.doc.gov.
The request should be specific and detail the following information: nature of the violation including when and how the violations occurred; description, quantity, value in U.S. dollars and ECCN or other classification of the items involved; license numbers, if applicable; identities and addresses of all individuals and organizations subject to the request, the scope of the request specifying the § 764.2(e) activities, including end-use, and point of contact. A copy of the initial or final VSD or notification made to the Director of OEE should be attached to the request.
(3) If a request submitted pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section is granted by the Office of Exporter Services in consultation with OEE, future activities with respect to those items that would otherwise violate § 764.2(e) will not constitute violations.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
g

# )(3):
Even if permission is granted, the person making a voluntary self-disclosure pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section is not absolved from liability for any violations disclosed nor relieved of the obligation to obtain any required reexport authorizations.
(4)
Reexports and transfers (in-country).
To reexport or transfer (in-country) items that are the subject of a voluntary self-disclosure or notification, and that have been exported contrary to the provisions of ECRA or the EAR, authorization may be requested from BIS in accordance with the provisions of part 748 of the EAR (15 CFR part 748). If the applicant who submitted the reexport or transfer authorization knows that the items are the subject of a voluntary self-disclosure or notification, the request should state that a
voluntary self-disclosure or notification was made in connection with the export of the items for which authorization is sought and a copy of the voluntary self-disclosure or notification should be included with the license application.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
g

# )(4):
If the items are otherwise eligible for reexport or transfer under a license exception or the No License Required (NLR) designation, a request under this paragraph (g) may be submitted to obtain permission for the use of the license exception or NLR designation for such reexport or transfer, provided the transaction otherwise meets the terms and conditions of the license exception or NLR designation.
(5)
Automated Export System (AES) filing errors.
Disclosures and notifications of AES filing errors reported to OEE under paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, where no other violation of the EAR only require notification to OEE and do not require authorization under this paragraph (g) to engage in activities subject to the EAR. The AES filing must be corrected with the Census Bureau before proceeding with such activities provided the activities meet any applicable EAR requirements. If another violation, such as failure to obtain a required license, has occurred in addition to the AES filing error, authorization under this paragraph (g) is required.
[61 FR 12902, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25469, May 9, 1997; 69 FR 7870, Feb. 20, 2004; 70 FR 22250, Apr. 29, 2005; 78 FR 48605, Aug. 9, 2013; 89 FR 75482, Sept. 16, 2024]
§ 764.6
Protective administrative measures.
(a)
License Exception limitation.
As provided in § 740.2(b) of the EAR, all License Exceptions are subject to revision, suspension, or revocation.
(b)
Revocation or suspension of licenses.
As provided in § 750.8 of the EAR, all licenses are subject to revision, suspension, or revocation.
(c)
Temporary denial orders.
BIS may, in accordance with § 766.24 of the EAR, issue an order temporarily denying export privileges when such an order is necessary in the public interest to prevent the occurrence of an imminent violation.
(d)
Denial based on criminal conviction.
BIS may, in accordance with § 766.25 of the EAR, issue an order denying the export privileges of any person who has been convicted of an offense specified in § 11(h) of the EAA.
§ 764.7
Activities involving items that may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya.
(a)
Introduction.
As set forth in § 764.2(e) of this part, and restated in General Prohibition Ten at § 736.2(b)(10) of the EAR, no person (including a non-U.S. Third Party) may order, buy, remove, conceal, store, use, sell, loan, dispose of, transfer, finance, forward, or otherwise service, in whole or in part, any item subject to the EAR with knowledge that a violation has occurred, or will occur, in connection with the item. This section addresses the application of § 764.2(e) of this part to activities involving items subject to the EAR that may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya before the comprehensive embargo on Libya ended (April 29, 2004) (“installed base” items).
(b)
Libya
—(1)
Activities involving installed base items in Libya for which no license is required.
Subject to the reporting requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part involving installed base items described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that are located in Libya and that were exported or reexported before April 29, 2004 do not require a license from BIS.
(i)
Scope.
An installed base item is within the scope of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if:
(A) It is not on the Commerce Control List in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR;
(B) It is on the Commerce Control List, but is authorized for export or reexport pursuant to a License Exception to Libya; or
(C) It is on the Commerce Control List and controlled only for AT reasons or for NS and AT reasons only, and is not listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Sensitive List (Annex 1) or Very Sensitive List (Annex 2) posted on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Web site (
www.wassenaar.org
) at the Control Lists web page.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
i

# ):
An item being exported or reexported to Libya may require a license based on the classification of the item to be exported or reexported regardless of whether the item will be used in connection with an installed base item. See paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
i

# ):
Not all items listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Annex 1, Sensitive List, and Annex 2, Very Sensitive List, fall under the export licensing jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce. Please refer to the Commerce Control List for additional jurisdictional information related to those items. Also, if you do not have access to the internet to review the Wassenaar Arrangement's Sensitive List and Very Sensitive List, please contact the Office of Exporter Services, Division of Exporter Counseling for assistance at telephone number (202) 482-4811.
(ii)
Reporting requirement.
Any person engaging in activity described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must submit to BIS's Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) a report including all known material facts with respect to how the installed base item arrived in Libya. The report must be submitted to OEE at the address identified in § 764.4(a) of the EAR within ninety (90) days of the first activity relating to the installed base item in Libya. A report may address more than one activity and/or more than one installed base item. An additional report must be submitted if any new material information regarding the export or reexport to Libya of the installed base item is discovered.
(2)
Licensing procedure for activities involving installed base items in Libya
—(i)
License requirement.
Any person seeking to undertake activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of the EAR with respect to any installed base item located in Libya and not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section must obtain a license from BIS prior to engaging in any such activities. License applications should be submitted in accordance with §§ 748.1, 748.4 and 748.6 of the EAR, and should fully describe the relevant activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part which is the basis of the application. License applications should include all known material facts as to how the installed base item originally was exported or reexported to Libya. This section also applies if you know that an item to be exported or reexported to a third party will be used on an installed base item not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Licensing policy.
BIS will review license applications submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section on a case-by-case basis. Favorable consideration will be given for those applications related to civil end-uses in Libya. Applications related to military, police, intelligence, or other sensitive end-uses in Libya will be subject to a general policy of denial.
(3)
Exclusion.
The provisions of this section are not applicable to any activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of the EAR undertaken with respect to an installed base item in Libya by a person who was party to the original illegal export or reexport of the related installed base item to Libya. Such persons should voluntarily self-disclose violations pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 764.5 of this part, which in some cases may allow activities related to unlawfully exported or reexported items to be undertaken based on permission from BIS.
(4)
Relationship to other Libya license requirements.
Notwithstanding this section, a license may be required pursuant to another provision of the EAR to engage in activity involving Libya. If a license is required pursuant to another section of the EAR, and the transaction also involves activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part related to an installed base item in Libya, this information should be specified on the license application. Such applications must also include all known information as to how the installed base item originally arrived in Libya. If granted, the license for the proposed transaction will also authorize the related activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part.
[70 FR 14391, Mar. 22, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 51719, Aug. 31, 2006; 73 FR 49331, Aug. 21, 2008]
§ 764.8
Voluntary self-disclosures for boycott violations.
This section sets forth procedures for disclosing violations of part 760 of the EAR—Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts and violations of part 762—Recordkeeping—with respect to records related to part 760. In this section,
these provisions are referred to collectively as the “antiboycott provisions.” This section also describes BIS's policy regarding such disclosures.
(a)
General policy.
BIS strongly encourages disclosure to the Office of Antiboycott Compliance (OAC) if you believe that you may have violated the antiboycott provisions. Voluntary self-disclosures are a mitigating factor with respect to any enforcement action that OAC might take.
(b)
Limitations.
(1) This section does not apply to disclosures of violations relating to provisions of the EAR other than the antiboycott provisions. Section 764.5 of this part describes how to prepare disclosures of violations of the EAR other than the antiboycott provisions.
(2) The provisions of this section apply only when information is provided to OAC for its review in determining whether to take administrative action under parts 764 and 766 of the EAR for violations of the antiboycott provisions.
(3)
Timing.
The provisions of this section apply only if OAC receives the voluntary self-disclosure as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section before it commences an investigation or inquiry in connection with the same or substantially similar information it received from another source.
(i)
Mandatory reports.
For purposes of this section, OAC's receipt of a report required to be filed under § 760.5 of the EAR that discloses that a person took an action prohibited by part 760 of the EAR constitutes the receipt of information from another source.
(ii)
Requests for advice.
For purposes of this section, a violation that is revealed to OAC by a person who is seeking advice, either by telephone or e-mail, about the antiboycott provisions does not constitute the receipt of information from another source. Such revelation also does not constitute a voluntary self-disclosure or initial notification of a voluntary self-disclosure for purposes of this section.
(4) Although a voluntary self-disclosure is a mitigating factor in determining what administrative sanctions, if any, will be sought by BIS, it is a factor that is considered together with all other factors in a case. The weight given to voluntary self-disclosure is solely within the discretion of BIS, and the mitigating effect of voluntary self-disclosure may be outweighed by aggravating factors. Voluntary self-disclosure does not prevent transactions from being referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. In such a case, BIS would notify the Department of Justice of the voluntary self-disclosure, but the decision as to how to consider that factor is within the discretion of the Department of Justice.
(5) A firm will not be deemed to have made a disclosure under this section unless the individual making the disclosure did so with the full knowledge and authorization of the firm's senior management or of a person with authority to make such disclosures on behalf of the firm.
(6) The provisions of this section do not, nor should they be relied on to, create, confer, or grant any rights, benefits, privileges, or protection enforceable at law or in equity by any person, business, or entity in any civil, criminal, administrative, or other matter.
(c)
Information to be provided
—(1)
General.
Any person wanting to disclose information that constitutes a voluntary self-disclosure should, in the manner outlined below, initially notify OAC as soon as possible after violations are discovered, and then conduct a thorough review of all transactions where violations of the antiboycott provisions are suspected.
(2)
Initial notification.
The initial notification must be in writing and be sent to the address in § 764.8(c)(7) of this part. The notification should include the name of the person making the disclosure and a brief description of the suspected violations. The notification should describe the general nature and extent of the violations. If the person making the disclosure subsequently completes the narrative account required by § 764.8(c)(3) of this part, the disclosure will be deemed to have been made on the date of the initial notification for purposes of § 764.8(b)(3) of this part.
(3)
Narrative account.
After the initial notification, a thorough review should
be conducted of all business transactions where possible antiboycott provision violations are suspected. OAC recommends that the review cover a period of five years prior to the date of the initial notification. If your review goes back less than five years, you risk failing to discover violations that may later become the subject of an investigation. Any violations not voluntarily disclosed do not receive the same mitigation as the violations voluntarily self-disclosed under this section. However, the failure to make such disclosures will not be treated as a separate violation unless some other section of the EAR or other provision of law enforced by BIS requires disclosure. Upon completion of the review, OAC should be furnished with a narrative account that sufficiently describes the suspected violations so that their nature and gravity can be assessed. The narrative account should also describe the nature of the review conducted and measures that may have been taken to minimize the likelihood that violations will occur in the future. The narrative account should include:
(i) The kind of violation involved, for example, the furnishing of a certificate indicating that the goods supplied did not originate in a boycotted country;
(ii) An explanation of when and how the violations occurred, including a description of activities surrounding the violations (e.g., contract negotiations, sale of goods, implementation of letter of credit, bid solicitation);
(iii) The complete identities and addresses of all individuals and organizations, whether foreign or domestic, involved in the activities giving rise to the violations; and
(iv) A description of any mitigating factors.
(4) Supporting documentation.
(i) The narrative account should be accompanied by copies of documents that explain and support it, including:
(A) Copies of boycott certifications and declarations relating to the violation, or copies of documents containing prohibited language or prohibited requests for information;
(B) Other documents relating to the violation, such as letters, facsimiles, telexes and other evidence of written or oral communications, negotiations, internal memoranda, purchase orders, invoices, bid requests, letters of credit and brochures;
(ii) Any relevant documents not attached to the narrative account must be retained by the person making the disclosure until the latest of the following: the documents are supplied to OAC; BIS informs the disclosing party that it will take no action; BIS issues a warning letter for the violation; BIS issues an order that constitutes the final agency action in the matter and all avenues for appeal are exhausted; or the documents are no longer required to be kept under part 762 of the EAR.
(5)
Certification.
A certification must be submitted stating that all of the representations made in connection with the voluntary self-disclosure are true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief. Certifications made by a corporation or other organization should be signed by an official of the corporation or other organization with the authority to do so. Section 764.2(g) of this part relating to false or misleading representations applies in connection with the disclosure of information under this section.
(6)
Oral presentations.
OAC believes that oral presentations are generally not necessary to augment the written narrative account and supporting documentation. If the person making the disclosure believes otherwise, a request for a meeting should be included with the disclosure.
(7)
Where to make voluntary self-disclosures.
The information constituting a voluntary self-disclosure or any other correspondence pertaining to a voluntary self-disclosure should be submitted to: Office of Antiboycott Compliance, 14th and Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Room 6098, Washington, DC 20230, tel: (202) 482-2381, facsimile: (202) 482-0913.
(d)
Action by the Office of Antiboycott Compliance.
After OAC has been provided with the required narrative and supporting documentation, it will acknowledge the disclosure by letter, provide the person making the disclosure with a point of contact, and take whatever additional action, including
further investigation, it deems appropriate. As quickly as the facts and circumstances of a given case permit, BIS may take any of the following actions:
(1) Inform the person making the disclosure that, based on the facts disclosed, it plans to take no action;
(2) Issue a warning letter;
(3) Issue a proposed charging letter and attempt to settle the matter pursuant to § 766.18 of the EAR;
(4) Issue a charging letter pursuant to § 766.3 of the EAR if a settlement is not reached or BIS otherwise deems appropriate; and/or
(5) Refer the matter to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution.
(e)
Criteria.
Supplement no. 2 to part 766 of the EAR describes how BIS typically exercises its discretion regarding whether to pursue an antiboycott administrative enforcement case under part 766 and what administrative sanctions to seek in settling such a case.
[72 FR 39004, July 17, 2007]
Pt. 764, Supp. No. 1

# Supplement No. 1 to Part 764—Standard Terms of Orders Denying Export Privileges
(a)
General.
(1) Orders denying export privileges may be “standard” or “non-standard.” This Supplement specifies terms of the standard order denying export privilege with respect to denial orders issued after March 25, 1996. Denial orders issued prior to March 25, 1996 are to be construed, insofar as possible, as having the same scope and effect as the standard denial order. All denial orders are published in the
Federal Register.
The failure by any person to comply with any denial order is a violation of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (see § 764.2(k) of this part). BIS provides a list of persons currently subject to denial orders on its Web site at
http://www.bis.doc.gov.
(2) Each denial order shall include:
(i) The name and address of any denied persons and any related persons subject to the denial order;
(ii) The basis for the denial order, such as final decision following charges of violation, settlement agreement, section 11(h) of the EAA, or temporary denial order request;
(iii) The period of denial, the effective date of the order, whether and for how long any portion of the denial of export privileges is suspended, and any conditions of probation; and
(iv) Whether any or all outstanding licenses issued under the EAR to the person(s) named in the denial order or in which such person(s) has an interest, are suspended or revoked.
Denial orders issued prior to March 25, 1996, are to be construed, insofar as possible, as having the same scope and effect as the standard denial order.
The introduction to each denial order shall be specific to that order, and shall include: (1) The name and address of any denied persons and any related persons subject to the denial order; (2) the basis for the denial order, such as final decision following charges of violation, settlement agreement, § 11(h) of the EAA, or temporary denial order request; (3) the period of denial, the effective date of the order, whether and for how long any portion of the denial of export privileges is suspended, and any conditions of probation; and (4) whether any or all outstanding licenses issued under the EAR to the person(s) named in the denial order or in which such person(s) has an interest, are suspended or revoked.
(b)
Standard denial order terms.
The following are the standard terms for imposing periods of export denial. Some orders also contain other terms, such as those that impose civil penalties, or that suspend all or part of the penalties or period of denial.
“It is therefore ordered:
First, that [the denied person(s)] may not, directly or indirectly, participate in any way in any transaction involving any commodity, software or technology (hereinafter collectively referred to as “item”) exported or to be exported from the United States that is subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), or in any other activity subject to the EAR, including, but not limited to:
A. Applying for, obtaining, or using any license, license exception, or export control document;
B. Carrying on negotiations concerning, or ordering, buying, receiving, using, selling, delivering, storing, disposing of, forwarding, transporting, financing, or otherwise servicing in any way, any transaction involving any item exported or to be exported from the United States that is subject to the EAR, or in any other activity subject to the EAR; or
C. Benefiting in any way from any transaction involving any item exported or to be exported from the United States that is subject to the EAR, or in any other activity subject to the EAR.
Second, that no person may, directly or indirectly, do any of the following:
A. Export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or on behalf of the denied person any item subject to the EAR;
B. Take any action that facilitates the acquisition or attempted acquisition by a denied person of the ownership, possession, or control of any item subject to the EAR that has been or will be exported from the United States, including financing or other support
activities related to a transaction whereby a denied person acquires or attempts to acquire such ownership, possession or control;
C. Take any action to acquire from or to facilitate the acquisition or attempted acquisition from the denied person of any item subject to the EAR that has been exported from the United States;
D. Obtain from the denied person in the United States any item subject to the EAR with knowledge or reason to know that the item will be, or is intended to be, exported from the United States; or
E. Engage in any transaction to service any item subject to the EAR that has been or will be exported from the United States and which is owned, possessed or controlled by a denied person, or service any item, of whatever origin, that is owned, possessed or controlled by a denied person if such service involves the use of any item subject to the EAR that has been or will be exported from the United States. For purposes of this paragraph, servicing means installation, maintenance, repair, modification or testing.
Third, that, after notice and opportunity for comment as provided in § 766.23 of the EAR, any person, firm, corporation, or business organization related to the denied person by affiliation, ownership, control, or position of responsibility in the conduct of trade or related services may also be made subject to the provisions of this order.
This order, which constitutes the final agency action in this matter, is effective [DATE OF ISSUANCE].”
[61 FR 12902, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 54953, Aug. 27, 2002; 70 FR 8720, Feb. 23, 2005; 78 FR 22727, Apr. 16, 2013; 85 FR 73417, Nov. 18, 2020]
Pt. 766

# PART 766—ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
766.1
Scope.
766.2
Definitions.
766.3
Institution of administrative enforcement proceedings.
766.4
Representation.
766.5
Filing and service of papers other than charging letter.
766.6
Answer and demand for hearing.
766.7
Default.
766.8
Summary decision.
766.9
Discovery.
766.10
Subpoenas.
766.11
Matter protected against disclosure.
766.12
Prehearing conference.
766.13
Hearings.
766.14
Interlocutory review of rulings.
766.15
Proceeding without a hearing.
766.16
Procedural stipulations; extension of time.
766.17
Decision of the administrative law judge.
766.18
Settlement.
766.19
Reopening.
766.20
Record for decision and availability of documents.
766.21
Appeals.
766.22
Review by Under Secretary.
766.23
Related persons.
766.24
Temporary denials.
766.25
Administrative action denying export privileges.
Supplement No. 1 to Part 766—Guidance on Charging and Penalty Determinations in Settlement of Administrative Enforcement Cases
Supplement No. 2 to Part 766—Guidance on Charging and Penalty Determinations in Settlement of Administrative Enforcement Cases Involving Antiboycott Matters

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.

# Source:
61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 766.1
Scope.
In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part describes the procedures for imposing administrative sanctions for violations of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (the EAA), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. Parts 760 and 764 of the EAR specify those actions that constitute violations, and part 764 describes the sanctions that apply. In addition to describing the procedures for imposing sanctions, this part describes the procedures for imposing temporary denial orders to prevent imminent violations of the EAA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. This part also describes the procedures for taking the discretionary protective administrative action of denying the export privileges of persons who have been convicted of violating any of the statutes, including the EAA, listed in section 11(h) of the EAA. Nothing in this part shall be construed as applying to or limiting other administrative or enforcement action relating to the EAA or the EAR, including the exercise of any investigative authorities conferred by the EAA. This part does not confer any procedural
rights or impose any requirements based on the Administrative Procedure Act for proceedings charging violations under the EAA, except as expressly provided for in this part.
§ 766.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following definitions apply:
Administrative law judge.
The person authorized to conduct hearings in administrative enforcement proceedings brought under the EAA or to hear appeals from the imposition of temporary denial orders. The term “judge” may be used for brevity when it is clear that the reference is to the administrative law judge.
Assistant Secretary.
The Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement, Bureau of Industry and Security.
Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).
Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce (formerly the Bureau of Export Administration) and all of its component units, including, in particular for purposes of this part, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Office of Export Enforcement, and the Office of Exporter Services.
Final decision.
A decision or order assessing a civil penalty, denial of export privileges or other sanction, or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further review under this part, but which is subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate Federal district court as authorized by law.
Initial decision.
A decision of the administrative law judge in proceedings involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, which is subject to appellate review by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, but which becomes the final decision in the absence of such an appeal.
Party.
BIS and any person named as a respondent under this part.
Recommended decision.
A decision of the administrative law judge in proceedings involving violations other than those relating to part 760 of the EAR, which is subject to review by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, who issues a written order affirming, modifying or vacating the recommended decision.
Respondent.
Any person named as the subject of a charging letter, proposed charging letter, temporary denial order, or other order proposed or issued under this part.
Under Secretary.
The Under Secretary for Industry and Security, United States Department of Commerce.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 20631, Apr. 26, 2002; 70 FR 8250, Feb. 18, 2005]
§ 766.3
Institution of administrative enforcement proceedings.
(a)
Charging letters.
The Director of the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) or the Director of the Office of Antiboycott Compliance (OAC), as appropriate, or such other Department of Commerce official as may be designated by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Enforcement, may begin administrative enforcement proceedings under this part by issuing a charging letter in the name of BIS. Supplements nos. 1 and 2 to this part describe how BIS typically exercises its discretion regarding the issuance of charging letters. The charging letter shall constitute the formal complaint and will state that there is reason to believe that a violation of the EAA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder, has occurred. It will set forth the essential facts about the alleged violation, refer to the specific regulatory or other provisions involved, and give notice of the sanctions available under part 764 of the EAR. The charging letter will inform the respondent that failure to answer the charges as provided in § 766.6 of this part will be treated as a default under § 766.7 of this part, that the respondent is entitled to a hearing if a written demand for one is requested with the answer, and that the respondent may be represented by counsel, or by other authorized representative who has a power of attorney to represent the respondent. A copy of the charging letter shall be filed with the administrative law judge, which filing shall toll the running of the applicable statute of limitations. Charging letters may be amended or supplemented at any time before an answer is filed, or, with permission of the administrative
law judge, afterwards. BIS may unilaterally withdraw charging letters at any time, by notifying the respondent and the administrative law judge.
(b)
Notice of issuance of charging letter instituting administrative enforcement proceeding.
A respondent shall be notified of the issuance of a charging letter, or any amendment or supplement thereto:
(1) By sending a copy by registered or certified mail or by express mail or commercial courier or delivery service addressed to the respondent at the respondent's last known address;
(2) By leaving a copy with the respondent or with an officer, a managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process for the respondent; or
(3) By leaving a copy with a person of suitable age and discretion who resides at the respondent's last known dwelling.
(4) Delivery of a copy of the charging letter, if made in the manner described in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, shall be evidenced by a certificate of service signed by the person making such service, stating the method of service and the identity of the person with whom the charging letter was left. The certificate of service shall be filed with the administrative law judge.
(c) The date of service of notice of the issuance of a charging letter instituting an administrative enforcement proceeding, or service of notice of the issuance of a supplement or amendment to a charging letter, is the date of its delivery, or of its attempted delivery, by any means described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 7870, Feb. 20, 2004; 72 FR 39005, July 17, 2007; 78 FR 48606, Aug. 9, 2013]
§ 766.4
Representation.
A respondent individual may appear and participate in person, a corporation by a duly authorized officer or employee, and a partnership by a partner. If a respondent is represented by counsel, counsel shall be a member in good standing of the bar of any State, Commonwealth or Territory of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, or be licensed to practice law in the country in which counsel resides if not the United States. A respondent personally, or through counsel or other representative, shall file a notice of appearance with the administrative law judge. BIS will be represented by the Office of Chief Counsel for Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 45633, July 10, 2002]
§ 766.5
Filing and service of papers other than charging letter.
(a)
Filing.
All papers to be filed shall be addressed to EAR Administrative Enforcement Proceedings, U.S. Coast Guard, ALJ Docketing Center, 40 S. Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland, 21202-4022, or such other place as the administrative law judge may designate. Filing by United States mail, first class postage prepaid, by express or equivalent parcel delivery service, or by hand delivery, is acceptable. Filing by mail from a foreign country shall be by airmail. In addition, the administrative law judge may authorize filing of papers by facsimile or other electronic means, provided that a hard copy of any such paper is subsequently filed. A copy of each paper filed shall be simultaneously served on each party.
(b)
Service.
Service shall be made by personal delivery or by mailing one copy of each paper to each party in the proceeding. Service by delivery service or facsimile, in the manner set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, is acceptable. Service on BIS shall be addressed to the Chief Counsel for Industry and Security, Room H-3839, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230. Service on a respondent shall be to the address to which the charging letter was sent or to such other address as respondent may provide. When a party has appeared by counsel or other representative, service on counsel or other representative shall constitute service on that party.
(c)
Date.
The date of filing or service is the day when the papers are deposited in the mail or are delivered in person, by delivery service, or by facsimile.
(d)
Certificate of service.
A certificate of service signed by the party making service, stating the date and manner of service, shall accompany every paper, other than the charging letter, filed and served on parties.
(e)
Computing period of time.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this part or by order of the administrative law judge or the Under Secretary, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday (as defined in Rule 6(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure), in which case the period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays are excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is seven days or less.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 45633, July 10, 2002; 70 FR 8250, Feb. 18, 2005]
§ 766.6
Answer and demand for hearing.
(a)
When to answer.
The respondent must answer the charging letter within 30 days after being served with notice of the issuance of a charging letter instituting an administrative enforcement proceeding, or within 30 days of notice of any supplement or amendment to a charging letter, unless time is extended under § 766.16 of this part.
(b)
Contents of answer.
The answer must be responsive to the charging letter and must fully set forth the nature of the respondent's defense or defenses. The answer must admit or deny specifically each separate allegation of the charging letter; if the respondent is without knowledge, the answer must so state and will operate as a denial. Failure to deny or controvert a particular allegation will be deemed an admission of that allegation. The answer must also set forth any additional or new matter the respondent believes supports a defense or claim of mitigation. Any defense or partial defense not specifically set forth in the answer shall be deemed waived, and evidence thereon may be refused, except for good cause shown.
(c)
Demand for hearing.
If the respondent desires a hearing, a written demand for one must be submitted with the answer. Any demand by BIS for a hearing must be filed with the administrative law judge within 30 days after service of the answer. Failure to make a timely written demand for a hearing shall be deemed a waiver of the party's right to a hearing, except for good cause shown. If no party demands a hearing, the matter will go forward in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.15 of this part.
(d)
English language required.
The answer, all other papers, and all documentary evidence must be submitted in English, or translations into English must be filed and served at the same time.
§ 766.7
Default.
(a)
General.
Failure of the respondent to file an answer within the time provided constitutes a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations in the charging letter. In such event, the administrative law judge, on BIS's motion and without further notice to the respondent, shall find the facts to be as alleged in the charging letter and render an initial or recommended decision containing findings of fact and appropriate conclusions of law and issue or recommend an order imposing appropriate sanctions. The decision and order shall be subject to review by the Under Secretary in accordance with the applicable procedures set forth in § 766.21 or § 766.22 of this part.
(b)
Petition to set aside default
—(1)
Procedure.
Upon petition filed by a respondent against whom a default order has been issued, which petition is accompanied by an answer meeting the requirements of § 766.6(b) of this part, the Under Secretary may, after giving all parties an opportunity to comment, and for good cause shown, set aside the default and vacate the order entered thereon and remand the matter to the
administrative law judge for further proceedings.
(2)
Time limits.
A petition under this section must be made within one year of the date of entry of the order which the petition seeks to have vacated.
§ 766.8
Summary decision.
At any time after a proceeding has been initiated, a party may move for a summary decision disposing of some or all of the issues. The administrative law judge may render an initial or recommended decision and issue or recommend an order if the entire record shows, as to the issue(s) under consideration:
(a) That there is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(b) That the moving party is entitled to a summary decision as a matter of law.
§ 766.9
Discovery.
(a)
General.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, which is relevant to the subject matter of the pending proceeding. The provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure relating to discovery apply to the extent consistent with this part and except as otherwise provided by the administrative law judge or by waiver or agreement of the parties. The administrative law judge may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. These orders may include limitations on the scope, method, time and place of discovery, and provisions for protecting the confidentiality of classified or otherwise sensitive information.
(b)
Interrogatories and requests for admission or production of documents.
A party may serve on any party interrogatories, requests for admission, or requests for production of documents for inspection and copying, and a party concerned may apply to the administrative law judge for such enforcement or protective order as that party deems warranted with respect to such discovery. The service of a discovery request shall be made at least 20 days before the scheduled date of the hearing unless the administrative law judge specifies a shorter time period. Copies of interrogatories, requests for admission and requests for production of documents and responses thereto shall be served on all parties, and a copy of the certificate of service shall be filed with the administrative law judge. Matters of fact or law of which admission is requested shall be deemed admitted unless, within a period designated in the request (at least 10 days after service, or within such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow), the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the requesting party a sworn statement either denying specifically the matters of which admission is requested or setting forth in detail the reasons why the party to whom the request is directed cannot truthfully either admit or deny such matters.
(c)
Depositions.
Upon application of a party and for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may order the taking of the testimony of any person by deposition and the production of specified documents or materials by the person at the deposition. The application shall state the purpose of the deposition and set forth the facts sought to be established through the deposition.
(d)
Enforcement.
The administrative law judge may order a party to answer designated questions, to produce specified documents or things or to take any other action in response to a proper discovery request. If a party does not comply with such an order, the administrative law judge may make a determination or enter any order in the proceeding as the judge deems reasonable and appropriate. The judge may strike related charges or defenses in whole or in part or may take particular facts relating to the discovery request to which the party failed or refused to respond as being established for purposes of the proceeding in accordance with the contentions of the party seeking discovery. In addition, enforcement by a district court of the United States may be sought under section 12(a) of the EAA.
§ 766.10
Subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
Upon the application of any party, supported by a satisfactory
showing that there is substantial reason to believe that the evidence would not otherwise be available, the administrative law judge will issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of such books, records or other documentary or physical evidence for the purpose of the hearing, as the judge deems relevant and material to the proceedings, and reasonable in scope.
(b)
Service.
Subpoenas issued by the administrative law judge may be served in any of the methods set forth in § 766.5(b) of this part.
(c)
Timing.
Applications for subpoenas must be submitted at least 10 days before the scheduled hearing or deposition, unless the administrative law judge determines, for good cause shown, that extraordinary circumstances warrant a shorter time.
§ 766.11
Matter protected against disclosure.
(a)
Protective measures.
It is often necessary for BIS to receive and consider information and documents that are sensitive from the standpoint of national security, foreign policy, business confidentiality, or investigative concern, and that are to be protected against disclosure. Accordingly, and without limiting the discretion of the administrative law judge to give effect to any other applicable privilege, it is proper for the administrative law judge to limit discovery or introduction of evidence or to issue such protective or other orders as in the judge's judgment may be consistent with the objective of preventing undue disclosure of the sensitive documents or information. Where the administrative law judge determines that documents containing the sensitive matter need to be made available to a respondent to avoid prejudice, the judge may direct BIS to prepare an unclassified and nonsensitive summary or extract of the documents. The administrative law judge may compare the extract or summary with the original to ensure that it is supported by the source document and that it omits only so much as must remain classified or undisclosed. The summary or extract may be admitted as evidence in the record.
(b)
Arrangements for access.
If the administrative law judge determines that this procedure is unsatisfactory and that classified or otherwise sensitive matter must form part of the record in order to avoid prejudice to a party, the judge may provide the parties opportunity to make arrangements that permit a party or a representative to have access to such matter without compromising sensitive information. Such arrangements may include obtaining security clearances, obtaining a national interest determination under section 12(c) of the EAA, or giving counsel for a party access to sensitive information and documents subject to assurances against further disclosure, including a protective order, if necessary.
§ 766.12
Prehearing conference.
(a) The administrative law judge, on the judge's own motion or on request of a party, may direct the parties to participate in a prehearing conference, either in person or by telephone, to consider:
(1) Simplification of issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings;
(3) Obtaining stipulations of fact and of documents to avoid unnecessary proof; or
(4) Such other matters as may expedite the disposition of the proceedings.
(b) The administrative law judge may order the conference proceedings to be recorded electronically or taken by a reporter, transcribed and filed with the judge.
(c) If a prehearing conference is impracticable, the administrative law judge may direct the parties to correspond with the judge to achieve the purposes of such a conference.
(d) The administrative law judge will prepare a summary of any actions agreed on or taken pursuant to this section. The summary will include any written stipulations or agreements made by the parties.
§ 766.13
Hearings.
(a)
Scheduling.
The administrative law judge, by agreement with the parties or upon notice to all parties of not less than 30 days, will schedule a hearing. All hearings will be held in Washington, D.C., unless the administrative
law judge determines, for good cause shown, that another location would better serve the interests of justice.
(b)
Hearing procedure.
Hearings will be conducted in a fair and impartial manner by the administrative law judge, who may limit attendance at any hearing or portion thereof to the parties, their representatives and witnesses if the judge deems this necessary or advisable in order to protect sensitive matter (see § 766.11 of this part) from improper disclosure. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law do not apply, and all evidentiary material deemed by the administrative law judge to be relevant and material to the proceeding and not unduly repetitious will be received and given appropriate weight.
(c)
Testimony and record.
Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation. A verbatim record of the hearing and of any other oral proceedings will be taken by reporter or by electronic recording, transcribed and filed with the administrative law judge. A respondent may examine the transcript and may obtain a copy by paying any applicable costs. Upon such terms as the administrative law judge deems just, the judge may direct that the testimony of any person be taken by deposition and may admit an affidavit or declaration as evidence, provided that any affidavits or declarations have been filed and served on the parties sufficiently in advance of the hearing to permit a party to file and serve an objection thereto on the grounds that it is necessary that the affiant or declarant testify at the hearing and be subject to cross-examination.
(d)
Failure to appear.
If a party fails to appear in person or by counsel at a scheduled hearing, the hearing may nevertheless proceed, and that party's failure to appear will not affect the validity of the hearing or any proceedings or action taken thereafter.
§ 766.14
Interlocutory review of rulings.
(a) At the request of a party, or on the judge's own initiative, the administrative law judge may certify to the Under Secretary for review a ruling that does not finally dispose of a proceeding, if the administrative law judge determines that immediate review may hasten or facilitate the final disposition of the matter.
(b) Upon certification to the Under Secretary of the interlocutory ruling for review, the parties will have 10 days to file and serve briefs stating their positions, and five days to file and serve replies, following which the Under Secretary will decide the matter promptly.
§ 766.15
Proceeding without a hearing.
If the parties have waived a hearing, the case will be decided on the record by the administrative law judge. Proceeding without a hearing does not relieve the parties from the necessity of proving the facts supporting their charges or defenses. Affidavits or declarations, depositions, admissions, answers to interrogatories and stipulations may supplement other documentary evidence in the record. The administrative law judge will give each party reasonable opportunity to file rebuttal evidence.
§ 766.16
Procedural stipulations; extension of time.
(a)
Procedural stipulations.
Unless otherwise ordered, a written stipulation agreed to by all parties and filed with the administrative law judge will modify any procedures established by this part.
(b)
Extension of time.
(1) The parties may extend any applicable time limitation, by stipulation filed with the administrative law judge before the time limitation expires.
(2) The administrative law judge may, on the judge's own initiative or upon application by any party, either before or after the expiration of any applicable time limitation, extend the time within which to file and serve an answer to a charging letter or do any other act required by this part.
§ 766.17
Decision of the administrative law judge.
(a)
Predecisional matters.
Except for default proceedings under § 766.7 of this part, the administrative law judge will give the parties reasonable opportunity to submit the following, which will be made a part of the record:
(1) Exceptions to any ruling by the judge or to the admissibility of evidence proffered at the hearing;
(2) Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(3) Supporting legal arguments for the exceptions and proposed findings and conclusions submitted; and
(4) A proposed order.
(b)
Decision and order.
After considering the entire record in the proceeding, the administrative law judge will issue a written decision.
(1)
Initial decision.
For proceedings charging violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, the decision rendered shall be an initial decision. The decision will include findings of fact, conclusions of law, and findings as to whether there has been a violation of the EAA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence of record is insufficient to sustain a finding that a violation has occurred with respect to one or more charges, the judge shall order dismissal of the charges in whole or in part, as appropriate. If the administrative law judge finds that one or more violations have been committed, the judge may issue an order imposing administrative sanctions, as provided in part 764 of the EAR. The decision and order shall be served on each party, and shall become effective as the final decision of the Department 30 days after service, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with § 766.21 of this part.
(2)
Recommended decision.
For proceedings not involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, the decision rendered shall be a recommended decision. The decision will include recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law, and findings as to whether there has been a violation of the EAA, the EAR or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence of record is insufficient to sustain a recommended finding that a violation has occurred with respect to one or more charges, the judge shall recommend dismissal of any such charge. If the administrative law judge finds that one or more violations have been committed, the judge shall recommend an order imposing administrative sanctions, as provided in part 764 of the EAR, or such other action as the judge deems appropriate. The administrative law judge shall immediately certify the record, including the original copy of the recommended decision and order, to the Under Secretary for review in accordance with § 766.22 of this part. The administrative law judge shall also immediately serve the recommended decision on all parties. Because of the time limits established in the EAA for review by the Under Secretary, service upon parties shall be by personal delivery, express mail or other overnight carrier.
(c)
Suspension of sanctions.
Any order imposing administrative sanctions may provide for the suspension of the sanction imposed, in whole or in part and on such terms of probation or other conditions as the administrative law judge or the Under Secretary may specify. Any suspension order may be modified or revoked by the signing official upon application of BIS showing a violation of the probationary terms or other conditions, after service on the respondent of notice of the application in accordance with the service provisions of § 766.3 of this part, and with such opportunity for response as the responsible signing official in his/her discretion may allow. A copy of any order modifying or revoking the suspension shall also be served on the respondent in accordance with the provisions of § 766.3 of this part.
(d)
Time for decision.
Administrative enforcement proceedings not involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR shall be concluded, including review by the Under Secretary under § 766.22 of this part, within one year of the submission of a charging letter, unless the administrative law judge, for good cause shown, extends such period. The charging letter will be deemed to have been submitted to the administrative law judge on the date the respondent files an answer or on the date BIS files a motion for a default order pursuant to § 766.7(a) of this part, whichever occurs first.
§ 766.18
Settlement.
(a)
Cases may be settled before service of a charging letter.
In cases in which settlement is reached before service of a
charging letter, a proposed charging letter will be prepared, and a settlement proposal consisting of a settlement agreement and order will be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for approval and signature. If the Assistant Secretary does not approve the proposal, he/she will notify the parties and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal had been made. If the Assistant Secretary approves the proposal, he/she will issue an appropriate order, and no action will be required by the administrative law judge.
(b)
Cases may also be settled after service of a charging letter.
(1) If the case is pending before the administrative law judge, the judge shall stay the proceedings for a reasonable period of time, usually not to exceed 30 days, upon notification by the parties that they have entered into good faith settlement negotiations. The administrative law judge may, in his/her discretion, grant additional stays. If settlement is reached, a proposal will be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for approval and signature. If the Assistant Secretary approves the proposal, he/she will issue an appropriate order, and notify the administrative law judge that the case is withdrawn from adjudication. If the Assistant Secretary does not approve the proposal, he/she will notify the parties and the case will proceed to adjudication by the administrative law judge as though no settlement proposal had been made.
(2) If the case is pending before the Under Secretary under § 766.21 or § 766.22 of this part, the parties may submit a settlement proposal to the Under Secretary for approval and signature. If the Under Secretary approves the proposal, he/she will issue an appropriate order. If the Under Secretary does not approve the proposal, the case will proceed to final decision in accordance with § 766.21 or § 766.22 of this part, as appropriate.
(c) Any order disposing of a case by settlement may suspend the administrative sanction imposed, in whole or in part, on such terms of probation or other conditions as the signing official may specify. Any such suspension may be modified or revoked by the signing official, in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.17(c) of this part.
(d) Any respondent who agrees to an order imposing any administrative sanction does so solely for the purpose of resolving the claims in the administrative enforcement proceeding brought under this part. This reflects the fact that BIS has neither the authority nor the responsibility for instituting, conducting, settling, or otherwise disposing of criminal proceedings. That authority and responsibility are vested in the Attorney General and the Department of Justice.
(e) Cases that are settled may not be reopened or appealed.
(f) Supplements nos. 1 and 2 to this part describe how BIS typically exercises its discretion regarding the terms under which it is willing to settle particular cases.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 7870, Feb. 20, 2004; 72 FR 39006, July 17, 2007]
§ 766.19
Reopening.
The respondent may petition the administrative law judge within one year of the date of the final decision, except where the decision arises from a default judgment or from a settlement, to reopen an administrative enforcement proceeding to receive any relevant and material evidence which was unknown or unobtainable at the time the proceeding was held. The petition must include a summary of such evidence, the reasons why it is deemed relevant and material, and the reasons why it could not have been presented at the time the proceedings were held. The administrative law judge will grant or deny the petition after providing other parties reasonable opportunity to comment. If the proceeding is reopened, the administrative law judge may make such arrangements as the judge deems appropriate for receiving the new evidence and completing the record. The administrative law judge will then issue a new initial or recommended decision and order, and the case will proceed to final decision and order in accordance with § 766.21 or § 766.22 of this part, as appropriate.
§ 766.20
Record for decision and availability of documents.
(a)
General.
The transcript of hearings, exhibits, rulings, orders, all papers and requests filed in the proceedings and, for purposes of any appeal under § 766.21 of this part or review under § 766.22 of this part, the decision of the administrative law judge and such submissions as are provided for by §§ 766.21 and 766.22 of this part, will constitute the record and the exclusive basis for decision. When a case is settled after the service of a charging letter, the record will consist of any and all of the foregoing, as well as the settlement agreement and the order. When a case is settled before service of a charging letter, the record will consist of the proposed charging letter, the settlement agreement and the order.
(b)
Restricted access.
On the judge's own motion, or on the motion of any party, the administrative law judge may direct that there be a restricted access portion of the record for any material in the record to which public access is restricted by law or by the terms of a protective order entered in the proceedings. A party seeking to restrict access to any portion of the record is responsible for submitting, at the time specified in § 766.20(c)(2) of this part, a version of the document proposed for public availability that reflects the requested deletion. The restricted access portion of the record will be placed in a separate file and the file will be clearly marked to avoid improper disclosure and to identify it as a portion of the official record in the proceedings. The administrative law judge may act at any time to permit material that becomes declassified or unrestricted through passage of time to be transferred to the unrestricted access portion of the record.
(c)
Availability of documents
—(1)
Scope.
(i) For proceedings started on or after October 12, 1979, all charging letters, answers, initial and recommended decisions, and orders disposing of a case will be made available for public inspection in the BIS Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room H-6624, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230. The complete record for decision, as defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be made available on request. In addition, all decisions of the Under Secretary on appeal pursuant to § 766.22 of this part and those final orders providing for denial, suspension or revocation of export privileges shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(ii) For proceedings started before October 12, 1979, the public availability of the record for decision will be governed by the applicable regulations in effect when the proceedings were begun.
(2)
Timing
—(i)
Antiboycott cases.
For matters relating to part 760 of the EAR, documents are available immediately upon filing, except for any portion of the record for which a request for segregation is made. Parties that seek to restrict access to any portion of the record under paragraph (b) of this section must make such a request, together with the reasons supporting the claim of confidentiality, simultaneously with the submission of material for the record.
(ii)
Other cases.
In all other cases, documents other than charging letters filed on or after June 2, 2022, will be available only after the final administrative disposition of the case. In these cases, parties desiring to restrict access to any portion of the record under paragraph (b) of this section must assert their claim of confidentiality, together with the reasons for supporting the claim, before the close of the proceeding.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 34153, June 6, 2022]
§ 766.21
Appeals.
(a)
Grounds.
For proceedings charging violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, a party may appeal to the Under Secretary from an order disposing of a proceeding or an order denying a petition to set aside a default or a petition for reopening, on the grounds:
(1) That a necessary finding of fact is omitted, erroneous or unsupported by substantial evidence of record;
(2) That a necessary legal conclusion or finding is contrary to law;
(3) That prejudicial procedural error occurred, or
(4) That the decision or the extent of sanctions is arbitrary, capricious or an
abuse of discretion. The appeal must specify the grounds on which the appeal is based and the provisions of the order from which the appeal is taken.
(b)
Filing of appeal.
An appeal from an order must be filed with the Office of the Under Secretary for Export Administration, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room H-3898, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230, within 30 days after service of the order appealed from. If the Under Secretary cannot act on an appeal for any reason, the Under Secretary will designate another Department of Commerce official to receive and act on the appeal.
(c)
Effect of appeal.
The filing of an appeal shall not stay the operation of any order, unless the order by its express terms so provides or unless the Under Secretary, upon application by a party and with opportunity for response, grants a stay.
(d)
Appeal procedure.
The Under Secretary normally will not hold hearings or entertain oral argument on appeals. A full written statement in support of the appeal must be filed with the appeal and be simultaneously served on all parties, who shall have 30 days from service to file a reply. At his/her discretion, the Under Secretary may accept new submissions, but will not ordinarily accept those submissions filed more than 30 days after the filing of the reply to the appellant's first submission.
(e)
Decisions.
The decision will be in writing and will be accompanied by an order signed by the Under Secretary giving effect to the decision. The order may either dispose of the case by affirming, modifying or reversing the order of the administrative law judge or may refer the case back to the administrative law judge for further proceedings.
§ 766.22
Review by Under Secretary.
(a)
Recommended decision.
For proceedings not involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, the administrative law judge shall immediately refer the recommended decision and order to the Under Secretary. Because of the time limits provided under the EAA for review by the Under Secretary, service of the recommended decision and order on the parties, all papers filed by the parties in response, and the final decision of the Under Secretary must be by personal delivery, facsimile, express mail or other overnight carrier. If the Under Secretary cannot act on a recommended decision and order for any reason, the Under Secretary will designate another Department of Commerce official to receive and act on the recommendation.
(b)
Submissions by parties.
Parties shall have 12 days from the date of issuance of the recommended decision and order in which to submit simultaneous responses. Parties thereafter shall have eight days from receipt of any response(s) in which to submit replies. Any response or reply must be received within the time specified by the Under Secretary.
(c)
Final decision.
Within 30 days after receipt of the recommended decision and order, the Under Secretary shall issue a written order affirming, modifying or vacating the recommended decision and order of the administrative law judge. If he/she vacates the recommended decision and order, the Under Secretary may refer the case back to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. Because of the time limits, the Under Secretary's review will ordinarily be limited to the written record for decision, including the transcript of any hearing, and any submissions by the parties concerning the recommended decision.
(d)
Delivery.
The final decision and implementing order shall be served on the parties and will be publicly available in accordance with § 766.20 of this part.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 33683, June 15, 2010]
§ 766.23
Related persons.
(a)
General.
In order to prevent evasion, certain types of orders under this part may be made applicable not only to the respondent, but also to other persons then or thereafter related to the respondent by ownership, control, position of responsibility, affiliation, or other connection in the conduct of trade or business. Orders that may be made applicable to related persons include those that deny or affect export
privileges, including temporary denial orders, and those that exclude a respondent from practice before BIS.
(b)
Procedures.
If BIS has reason to believe that a person is related to the respondent and that an order that is being sought or that has been issued should be made applicable to that person in order to prevent evasion of the order, BIS shall, except in an
ex parte
proceeding under § 766.24(a) of this part, give that person notice in accordance with § 766.5(b) of this part and an opportunity to oppose such action. If the official authorized to issue the order against the respondent finds that the order should be made applicable to that person in order to prevent evasion of the order that official shall issue or amend the order accordingly.
(c)
Appeals.
Any person named by BIS in an order as related to the respondent may appeal that action. The sole issues to be raised and ruled on in any such appeal are whether the person so named is related to the respondent and whether the order is justified in order to prevent evasion.
(1) A person named as related to the respondent in an order issued pursuant to § 766.25 may file an appeal with the Under Secretary for Industry and Security pursuant to part 756 of the EAR.
(2) A person named as related to the respondent in an order issued pursuant to other provisions of this part may file an appeal with the administrative law judge.
(i) If the order made applicable to the related person is for a violation related to part 760 of the EAR, the related person may file an appeal with the administrative law judge. The related person may appeal the initial decision and order of the administrative law judge to the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.21.
(ii) If the order made applicable to the related person is issued pursuant to § 766.24 of this part to prevent an imminent violation, the recommended decision and order of the administrative law judge shall be reviewed by the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.24(e) of this part.
(iii) If the order made applicable to the related person is for a violation of the EAR not related to part 760 of the EAR and not issued pursuant to § 766.24 of this part, the recommended decision and order of the administrative law judge shall be reviewed by the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.22 of this part.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 27605, May 12, 2006]
§ 766.24
Temporary denials.
(a)
General.
The procedures in this section apply to temporary denial orders issued on or after July 12, 1985. For temporary denial orders issued on or before July 11, 1985, the proceedings will be governed by the applicable regulations in effect at the time the temporary denial orders were issued. Without limiting any other action BIS may take under the EAR with respect to any application, order, license or authorization issued under ECRA, BIS may ask the Assistant Secretary to issue a temporary denial order on an
ex parte
basis to prevent an imminent violation, as defined in this section, of the ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. The temporary denial order will deny export privileges to any person named in the order as provided for in § 764.3(a)(2) of the EAR.
(b)
Issuance.
(1) The Assistant Secretary may issue an order temporarily denying to a person any or all of the export privileges described in part 764 of the EAR upon a showing by BIS that the order is necessary in the public interest to prevent an imminent violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.
(2) The temporary denial order shall define the imminent violation and state why it was issued without a hearing. Because all denial orders are public, the description of the imminent violation and the reasons for proceeding on an
ex parte
basis set forth therein shall be stated in a manner that is consistent with national security, foreign policy, business confidentiality, and investigative concerns.
(3) A violation may be “imminent” either in time or in degree of likelihood. To establish grounds for the temporary denial order, BIS may show either that a violation is about to occur, or that the general circumstances of
the matter under investigation or case under criminal or administrative charges demonstrate a likelihood of future violations. To indicate the likelihood of future violations, BIS may show that the violation under investigation or charges is significant, deliberate, covert and/or likely to occur again, rather than technical or negligent, and that it is appropriate to give notice to companies in the United States and abroad to cease dealing with the person in U.S.-origin items in order to reduce the likelihood that a person under investigation or charges continues to export or acquire abroad such items, risking subsequent disposition contrary to export control requirements. Lack of information establishing the precise time a violation may occur does not preclude a finding that a violation is imminent, so long as there is sufficient reason to believe the likelihood of a violation.
(4) The temporary denial order will be issued for a period not exceeding 180 days.
(5) Notice of the issuance of a temporary denial order on an
ex parte
basis shall be given in accordance with § 766.5(b) of this part upon issuance.
(c)
Related persons.
A temporary denial order may be made applicable to related persons in accordance with § 766.23 of this part.
(d)
Renewal.
(1) If, no later than 20 days before the expiration date of a temporary denial order, BIS believes that renewal of the denial order is necessary in the public interest to prevent an imminent violation, BIS may file a written request setting forth the basis for its belief, including any additional or changed circumstances, asking that the Assistant Secretary renew the temporary denial order, with modifications, if any are appropriate, for an additional period not exceeding 180 days. In cases demonstrating a pattern of repeated, ongoing and/or continuous apparent violations, BIS may request the renewal of a temporary denial order for an additional period not exceeding one year. BIS's request shall be delivered to the respondent, or any agent designated for this purpose, in accordance with § 766.5(b) of this part unless exceptional circumstances exist, which will constitute notice of the renewal application.
(2)
Non-resident respondents.
To facilitate timely notice of renewal requests, a respondent not a resident of the United States may designate a local agent for this purpose and provide written notification of such designation to BIS in the manner set forth in § 766.5(b) of this part.
(3)
Hearing.
(i) A respondent may oppose renewal of a temporary denial order by filing with the Assistant Secretary a written submission, supported by appropriate evidence, to be received not later than seven days before the expiration date of such order. For good cause shown, the Assistant Secretary may consider submissions received not later than five days before the expiration date. The Assistant Secretary ordinarily will not allow discovery; however, for good cause shown in respondent's submission, he/she may allow the parties to take limited discovery, consisting of a request for production of documents. If requested by the respondent in the written submission, the Assistant Secretary shall hold a hearing on the renewal application. The hearing shall be on the record and ordinarily will consist only of oral argument. The only issue to be considered on BIS's request for renewal is whether the temporary denial order should be continued to prevent an imminent violation as defined herein.
(ii) Any person designated as a related person may not oppose the issuance or renewal of the temporary denial order, but may file an appeal in accordance with § 766.23(c) of this part.
(iii) If no written opposition to BIS's renewal request is received within the specified time, the Assistant Secretary may issue the order renewing the temporary denial order without a hearing.
(4) A temporary denial order may be renewed more than once.
(e)
Appeals
—(1)
Filing.
(i) A respondent may, at any time, file an appeal of the initial or renewed temporary denial order with the administrative law judge.
(ii) The filing of an appeal shall stay neither the effectiveness of the temporary denial order nor any application for renewal, nor will it operate to bar
the Assistant Secretary's consideration of any renewal application.
(2)
Grounds.
A respondent may appeal on the grounds that the finding that the order is necessary in the public interest to prevent an imminent violation is unsupported.
(3)
Appeal procedure.
A full written statement in support of the appeal must be filed with the appeal together with appropriate evidence, and be simultaneously served on BIS, which shall have seven days from receipt to file a reply. Service on the administrative law judge shall be addressed to U.S. Coast Guard, ALJ Docketing Center, 40 S. Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland, 21202-4022. Service on BIS shall be as set forth in § 766.5(b) of this part. The administrative law judge normally will not hold hearings or entertain oral argument on appeals.
(4)
Recommended decision.
Within 10 working days after an appeal is filed, the administrative law judge shall submit a recommended decision to the Under Secretary, and serve copies on the parties, recommending whether the issuance or the renewal of the temporary denial order should be affirmed, modified or vacated.
(5)
Final decision.
Within five working days after receipt of the recommended decision, the Under Secretary shall issue a written order accepting, rejecting or modifying the recommended decision. Because of the time constraints, the Under Secretary's review will ordinarily be limited to the written record for decision, including the transcript of any hearing. The issuance or renewal of the temporary denial order shall be affirmed only if there is reason to believe that the temporary denial order is required in the public interest to prevent an imminent violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or other authorization issued under ECRA.
(f)
Delivery.
A copy of any temporary denial order issued or renewed and any final decision on appeal shall be published in the
Federal Register
and shall be delivered to BIS and to the respondent, or any agent designated for this purpose, and to any related person in the same manner as provided in § 766.5 of this part for filing for papers other than a charging letter.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 14099, Mar. 21, 2006; 71 FR 27606, May 12, 2006; 75 FR 33683, June 15, 2010; 88 FR 59793, Aug. 30, 2023]
§ 766.25
Administrative action denying export privileges.
(a)
General.
The Director of the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE), in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, may deny the export privileges of any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the statutes set forth at 50 U.S.C. 4819(e)(1)(B), including any regulation, license, or order issued pursuant to such statutes.
(b)
Procedure.
Upon notification that a person has been convicted of a violation of one or more of the provisions specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Director of OEE, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, will determine whether to deny such person export privileges, including but not limited to applying for, obtaining, or using any license, License Exception, or export control document; or participating in or benefitting in any way from any export or export-related transaction subject to the EAR. Before taking action to deny a person export privileges under this section, the Director of OEE will provide the person written notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to comment through a written submission, unless exceptional circumstances exist. In reviewing the response, the Director of OEE will consider any relevant or mitigating evidence why these privileges should not be denied. Upon final determination, the Director of OEE will notify by letter each person denied export privileges under this section.
(c)
Criteria.
In determining whether and for how long to deny U.S. export privileges to a person previously convicted of one or more of the statutes set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Director of OEE may take into consideration any relevant information, including, but not limited to, the seriousness of the offense involved in the criminal prosecution, the nature and duration of the criminal sanctions
imposed, and whether the person has undertaken any corrective measures.
(d)
Duration.
Any denial of export privileges under this section shall not exceed 10 years from the date of the conviction of the person who is subject to the denial.
(e)
Effect.
Any person denied export privileges under this section will be considered a “person denied export privileges” for purposes of § 736.2(b)(4) (General Prohibition 4—Engage in actions prohibited by a denial order) and § 764.2(k) of the EAR.
(f)
Publication.
The orders denying export privileges under this section are published in the
Federal Register
when issued, and, for the convenience of the public, information about those orders may be included in compilations maintained by BIS on a Web site and as a supplement to the unofficial edition of the EAR available by subscription from the Government Printing Office.
(g)
Appeal.
An appeal of an action under this section will be pursuant to part 756 of the EAR.
(h)
Applicability to related person.
The Director of OEE, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, may take action in accordance with § 766.23 of this part to make applicable to related persons an order that is being sought or that has been issued under this section.
[61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 14863, Mar. 20, 2000; 67 FR 54953, Aug. 27, 2002; 85 FR 73418, Nov. 18, 2020]
Pt. 766, Supp. No. 1

# Supplement No. 1 to Part 766—Guidance on Charging and Penalty Determinations in Settlement of Administrative Enforcement Cases

# Introduction
This supplement describes how the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) at the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) responds to apparent violations of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and, specifically, how OEE makes penalty determinations in the settlement of civil administrative enforcement cases under part 764 of the EAR. This guidance does not apply to enforcement cases for violations under part 760 of the EAR—Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts. Supplement no. 2 to part 766 continues to apply to civil administrative enforcement cases involving part 760 violations.
Because many administrative enforcement cases are resolved through settlement, the process of settling such cases is integral to the enforcement program. OEE carefully considers each settlement offer in light of the facts and circumstances of the case, relevant precedent, and OEE's objective to achieve in each case an appropriate penalty and deterrent effect. In settlement negotiations, OEE encourages parties to provide, and will give serious consideration to, information and evidence that parties believe are relevant to the application of this guidance to their cases, to whether a violation has in fact occurred, or to whether they have an affirmative defense to potential charges.
This guidance does not confer any right or impose any obligation regarding what penalties OEE may seek in litigating a case or what posture OEE may take toward settling a case. Parties do not have a right to a settlement offer or particular settlement terms from OEE, regardless of settlement positions OEE has taken in other cases.

# I. Definitions
Note:
See also: Definitions contained in § 766.2 of the EAR.
Apparent Violation
means conduct that constitutes an actual or possible violation of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018, the EAR, other statutes administered or enforced by BIS, as well as executive orders, regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant thereto.
Transaction value
means the U.S. dollar value of a subject transaction, as demonstrated by commercial invoices, bills of lading, signed Customs declarations, AES filings or similar documents. Where the transaction value is not otherwise ascertainable, OEE may consider the market value of the items that were the subject of the transaction and/or the economic benefit derived by the Respondent from the transaction, in determining transaction value. In situations involving a lease of U.S.-origin items, the transaction value will generally be the value of the lease. For purposes of these guidelines, “transaction value” will not necessarily have the same meaning, nor be applied in the same manner, as that term is used for import valuation purposes at 19 CFR 152.103.
Voluntary self-disclosure
means the self-initiated notification to OEE of an apparent violation as described in and satisfying the requirements of § 764.5 of the EAR.

# II. Types of Responses to Apparent Violations
OEE, among other responsibilities, investigates apparent violations of the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. When it appears that such a violation may have occurred, OEE investigations may lead to no action, a warning letter
or an administrative enforcement proceeding. A violation may also be referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. The type of enforcement action initiated by OEE will depend primarily on the nature of the violation. Depending on the facts and circumstances of a particular case, an OEE investigation may lead to one or more of the following actions:
A. No Action.
If OEE determines that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that a violation has occurred, determines that a violation did not occur and/or, based on an analysis of the Factors outlined in section III of these guidelines, concludes that the conduct does not rise to a level warranting an administrative response, then no action will be taken. In such circumstances, if the investigation was initiated by a voluntary self-disclosure (VSD), OEE will issue a letter (a no-action letter) indicating that the investigation is being closed with no administrative action being taken. OEE may issue a no-action letter in non-voluntarily disclosed cases at its discretion. A no-action determination by OEE represents OEE's disposition of the apparent violation, unless OEE later learns of additional information regarding the same or similar transactions or other relevant facts. A no-action letter is not a final agency action with respect to whether a violation occurred.
B. Warning Letter.
If OEE determines that a violation may have occurred but a civil penalty is not warranted under the circumstances, and believes that the underlying conduct could lead to a violation in other circumstances and/or that a Respondent does not appear to be exercising due diligence in assuring compliance with the statutes, executive orders, and regulations that OEE enforces, OEE may issue a warning letter. A warning letter may convey OEE's concerns about the underlying conduct and/or the Respondent's compliance policies, practices, and/or procedures. It may also address an apparent violation of a minor or technical nature, where good faith efforts to comply with the law and cooperate with the investigation are present, or where the investigation commenced as a result of a voluntary self-disclosure satisfying the requirements of § 764.5 of the EAR, provided that no aggravating factors exist. In the exercise of its discretion, OEE may determine in certain instances that issuing a warning letter, instead of bringing an administrative enforcement proceeding, will achieve the appropriate enforcement result. A warning letter will describe the apparent violation and urge compliance. A warning letter represents OEE's enforcement response to and disposition of the apparent violation, unless OEE later learns of additional information concerning the same or similar apparent violations. A warning letter does not constitute a final agency action with respect to whether a violation has occurred.
C. Administrative enforcement case.
If OEE determines that a violation has occurred and, based on an analysis of the Factors outlined in section III of these guidelines, concludes that the Respondent's conduct warrants a civil monetary penalty or other administrative sanctions, OEE may initiate an administrative enforcement case. The issuance of a charging letter under § 766.3 of the EAR initiates an administrative enforcement proceeding. Charging letters may be issued when there is reason to believe that a violation has occurred. Cases may be settled before or after the issuance of a charging letter.
See
§ 766.18 of the EAR. OEE may prepare a proposed charging letter which could result in a case being settled before issuance of an actual charging letter.
See
§ 766.18(a) of the EAR. If a case does not settle before issuance of a charging letter and the case proceeds to adjudication, the resulting charging letter may include more violations than alleged in the proposed charging letter, and the civil monetary penalty amounts assessed may be greater that those provided for in section IV of these guidelines. Civil monetary penalty amounts for cases settled before the issuance of a charging letter will be determined as discussed in section IV of these guidelines. A civil monetary penalty may be assessed for each violation. The maximum amount of such a penalty per violation is stated in § 764.3(a)(1), subject to adjustments under Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, sec. 701), which are codified at 15 CFR 6.4. OEE will afford the Respondent an opportunity to respond to a proposed charging letter. Responses to charging letters following the institution of an enforcement proceeding under part 766 of the EAR are governed by § 766.3 of the EAR.
D. Non-Monetary Penalty.
OEE may seek a non-monetary penalty if OEE determines the violations are not egregious and have not resulted in serious national security harm, but rise above the level of cases warranting a warning letter or no-action letter. Instead of requiring monetary penalties, such agreements will require remediation through the imposition of a suspended denial order with certain conditions, such as training and compliance requirements, as appropriate, to mitigate harm from past violations and prevent future ones.
E. Civil Monetary Penalty.
OEE may seek a civil monetary penalty if OEE determines that a violation has occurred and, based on the Factors outlined in section III of these guidelines, concludes that the Respondent's conduct warrants a monetary penalty. Section IV of these guidelines will guide the agency's exercise of its discretion in determining civil monetary penalty amounts.
F. Criminal Referral.
In appropriate circumstances, OEE may refer the matter to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. Apparent violations referred for criminal prosecution also may be subject to a civil monetary penalty and/or other administrative sanctions or action by BIS.
G. Other Administrative Sanctions or Actions.
In addition to or in lieu of other administrative actions, OEE may seek sanctions listed in § 764.3 of the EAR. BIS may also take the following administrative actions, among other actions, in response to an apparent violation:
License Revision, Suspension or Revocation.
BIS authorizations to engage in a transaction pursuant to a license or license exception may be revised, suspended or revoked in response to an apparent violation as provided in §§ 740.2(b) and 750.8 of the EAR.
Denial of Export Privileges.
An order denying a Respondent's export privileges may be issued, as described in § 764.3(a)(2) of the EAR. Such a denial may extend to all export privileges, as set out in the standard terms for denial orders in supplement no. 1 to part 764 of the EAR, or may be narrower in scope (
e.g.,
limited to exports of specified items or to specified destinations or customers). A denial order may also be suspended in whole or in part in accordance with § 766.18(c).
Exclusion from practice.
Under § 764.3(a)(3) of the EAR, any person acting as an attorney, accountant, consultant, freight forwarder or other person who acts in a representative capacity in any matter before BIS may be excluded from practicing before BIS.
Training and Audit Requirements.
In appropriate cases, OEE may require as part of a settlement agreement that the Respondent provide training to employees as part of its compliance program, adopt other compliance measures, and/or be subject to internal or independent audits by a qualified outside person.
H. Suspension or Deferral.
In appropriate cases, payment of a civil monetary penalty may be suspended or deferred during a probationary period under a settlement agreement and order. If the terms of the settlement agreement or order are not adhered to by the Respondent, then suspension or deferral may be revoked and the full amount of the penalty imposed.
See
§ 764.3(a)(1)(iii) of the EAR. In determining whether suspension or deferral is appropriate, OEE may consider, for example, whether the Respondent has demonstrated a limited ability to pay a penalty that would be appropriate for such violations, so that suspended or deferred payment can be expected to have sufficient deterrent value, and whether, in light of all of the circumstances, such suspension or deferral is necessary to make the financial impact of the penalty consistent with the impact of penalties on other parties who committed similar violations.

# III. Factors Affecting Administrative Sanctions
Many apparent violations are isolated occurrences, the result of a good-faith misinterpretation, or involve no more than simple negligence or carelessness. In such instances, absent the presence of aggravating factors, the matter frequently may be addressed with a no action determination letter or, if deemed necessary, a warning letter. In other cases, where the imposition of an administrative penalty is deemed appropriate, OEE will consider some or all of the following Factors in determining the appropriate sanctions in administrative cases, including the appropriate amount of a civil monetary penalty where such a penalty is sought and is imposed as part of a settlement agreement and order. These factors describe circumstances that, in OEE's experience, are commonly relevant to penalty determinations in settled cases. Factors that are considered exclusively aggravating, such as willfulness, or exclusively mitigating, such as situations where remedial measures were taken, are set forth paragraphs II(A) through (D) and (G) through (I). This guidance also identifies General Factors—which can be either mitigating or aggravating—such as the presence or absence of an internal compliance program at the time the apparent violations occurred. Other relevant Factors may also be considered at OEE's discretion.
While some violations of the EAR have a degree of knowledge or intent as an element of the offense, OEE may regard a violation of any provision of the EAR as knowing or willful if the facts and circumstances of the case support that conclusion. For example, evidence that a corporate entity had knowledge at a senior management level may mean that a higher penalty may be appropriate. OEE will also consider, in accordance with supplement no. 3 to part 732 of the EAR (15 CFR part 732), the presence of any red flags that should have alerted the Respondent that a violation was likely to occur. The aggravating factors identified in the Guidelines do not alter or amend § 764.2(e) or the definition of “knowledge” in § 772.1, or other provisions of parts 764 and 772 of the EAR (15 CFR parts 764 and 772). If the violations are of such a nature and extent that a monetary fine alone represents an insufficient penalty, a denial or exclusion order may also be imposed to prevent future violations of the EAR.

# Aggravating Factors
A. Willful or Reckless Violation of Law.
OEE will consider a Respondent's apparent willfulness or recklessness in violating, attempting to violate, conspiring to violate, or causing a violation of the law. Generally, to the extent the conduct at issue appears to be the
result of willful conduct—a deliberate intent to violate, attempt to violate, conspire to violate, or cause a violation of the law—the OEE enforcement response will be stronger. Among the factors OEE may consider in evaluating apparent willfulness or recklessness are:
1. Willfulness.
Was the conduct at issue the result of a decision to take action with the knowledge that such action would constitute a violation of U.S. law? Did the Respondent know that the underlying conduct constituted, or likely constituted, a violation of U.S. law at the time of the conduct?
2. Recklessness/gross negligence.
Did the Respondent demonstrate reckless disregard or gross negligence with respect to compliance with U.S. regulatory requirements or otherwise fail to exercise a minimal degree of caution or care in avoiding conduct that led to the apparent violation? Were there warning signs that should have alerted the Respondent that an action or failure to act would lead to an apparent violation?
3. Concealment.
Was there a deliberate effort by the Respondent to hide or purposely obfuscate its conduct in order to mislead OEE, Federal, State, or foreign regulators, or other parties involved in the conduct, about an apparent violation?
4. Pattern of Conduct.
Did the apparent violation constitute or result from a pattern or practice of conduct or was it relatively isolated and atypical in nature? In determining both whether to bring charges and, once charges are brought, whether to treat the case as egregious, OEE will be mindful of certain situations where multiple recurring violations resulted from a single inadvertent error, such as misclassification. However, for cases that settle before filing of a charging letter with an Administrative Law Judge, OEE will generally charge only the most serious violation per transaction. If OEE issues a proposed charging letter and subsequently files a charging letter with an Administrative Law Judge because a mutually agreeable settlement cannot be reached, OEE will continue to reserve its authority to proceed with all available charges in the charging letter based on the facts presented. When determining a penalty, each violation is potentially chargeable.
5. Prior Notice.
Was the Respondent on notice, or should it reasonably have been on notice, that the conduct at issue, or similar conduct, constituted a violation of U.S. law?
6. Management Involvement.
In cases of entities, at what level within the organization did the willful or reckless conduct occur? Were supervisory or managerial level staff aware, or should they reasonably have been aware, of the willful or reckless conduct?
B. Awareness of Conduct at Issue: The Respondent's awareness of the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation.
Generally, the greater a Respondent's actual knowledge of, or reason to know about, the conduct constituting an apparent violation, the stronger the OEE enforcement response will be. In the case of a corporation, awareness will focus on supervisory or managerial level staff in the business unit at issue, as well as other senior officers and managers. Among the factors OEE may consider in evaluating the Respondent's awareness of the conduct at issue are:
1. Actual Knowledge.
Did the Respondent have actual knowledge that the conduct giving rise to an apparent violation took place, and remain willfully blind to such conduct, and fail to take remedial measures to address it? Was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement that was designed or implemented with the intent to prevent or shield the Respondent from having such actual knowledge, or was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement implemented for other legitimate reasons that consequently made it difficult or impossible for the Respondent to have actual knowledge?
2. Reason to Know.
If the Respondent did not have actual knowledge that the conduct took place, did the Respondent have reason to know, or should the Respondent reasonably have known, based on all readily available information and with the exercise of reasonable due diligence, that the conduct would or might take place?
3. Management Involvement.
In the case of an entity, was the conduct undertaken with the explicit or implicit knowledge of senior management, or was the conduct undertaken by personnel outside the knowledge of senior management? If the apparent violation was undertaken without the knowledge of senior management, was there oversight intended to detect and prevent violations, or did the lack of knowledge by senior management result from disregard for its responsibility to comply with applicable regulations and laws?
C. Harm to Regulatory Program Objectives: The actual or potential harm to regulatory program objectives caused by the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation.
This factor is present where the conduct in question, in purpose or effect, substantially implicates national security, foreign policy or other essential interests protected by the U.S. export control system. Among other things, OEE may consider such factors as the reason for controlling the item to the destination in question; the sensitivity of the item; the prohibitions or restrictions against the recipient of the item; and the licensing policy concerning the transaction (such as presumption of approval or denial). OEE, in its discretion, may consult with other U.S. agencies or with licensing and enforcement authorities of other countries in making its determination. Among the factors OEE may
consider in evaluating the harm to regulatory program objectives are:
1. Implications for U.S. National Security: The impact that the apparent violation had or could potentially have on the national security of the United States.
For example, if a particular export could undermine U.S. military superiority or endanger U.S. or friendly military forces or be used in a military application contrary to U.S. interests, OEE would consider the implications of the apparent violation to be significant.
2. Implications for U.S. Foreign Policy: The effect that the apparent violation had or could potentially have on U.S. foreign policy objectives.
For example, if a particular export is, or is likely to be, used by a foreign regime to monitor communications of its population in order to suppress free speech and persecute dissidents, or otherwise used to enable human rights abuses, OEE would consider the implications of the apparent violation to be significant.
D. Failure to disclose a significant apparent violation.
If a firm (as that term is defined in § 772.1 of the EAR) deliberately chooses not to disclose a significant apparent violation that it has identified, OEE will consider that non-disclosure to be an aggravating factor when assessing what administrative sanctions, if any, will be sought. A deliberate decision not to disclose occurs when a firm uncovers a significant apparent violation that they have committed but then chooses not to file a VSD.

# General Factors
E. Individual Characteristics: The particular circumstances and characteristics of a Respondent.
Among the factors OEE may consider in evaluating individual characteristics are:
1. Commercial Sophistication: The commercial sophistication and experience of the Respondent.
Is the Respondent an individual or an entity? If an individual, was the conduct constituting the apparent violation for personal or business reasons?
2. Size and Sophistication of Operations: The size of a Respondent's business operations, where such information is available and relevant.
At the time of the violation, did the Respondent have any previous export experience and was the Respondent familiar with export practices and requirements? Qualification of the Respondent as a small business or organization for the purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act, as determined by reference to the applicable standards of the Small Business Administration, may also be considered.
3. Volume and Value of Transactions: The total volume and value of transactions undertaken by the Respondent on an annual basis, with attention given to the volume and value of the apparent violations as compared with the total volume and value of all transactions.
Was the quantity and/or value of the exports high, such that a greater penalty may be necessary to serve as an adequate penalty for the violation or deterrence of future violations, or to make the penalty proportionate to those for otherwise comparable violations involving exports of lower quantity or value?
4. Regulatory History: The Respondent's regulatory history, including OEE's issuance of prior penalties, warning letters, or other administrative actions (including settlements).
OEE will consider a Respondent's past regulatory history, including OEE's issuance of prior penalties, warning letters, or other administrative actions (including settlements). When an acquiring firm takes reasonable steps to uncover, correct, and voluntarily disclose or cause the voluntary self-disclosure to OEE of conduct that gave rise to violations by an acquired business before the acquisition, OEE typically will not take such violations into account in applying these factors in settling other violations by the acquiring firm.
5. Other illegal conduct in connection with the export.
Was the transaction in support of other illegal conduct, for example the export of firearms as part of a drug smuggling operation, or illegal exports in support of intellectual property theft, economic espionage or money laundering?
6. Criminal Convictions.
Has the Respondent previously been convicted of a criminal violation or otherwise entered into a resolution with the Department of Justice or other prosecutorial authority related to a criminal violation?
Note:
Where necessary to effective enforcement, the prior involvement in export violation(s) of a Respondent's owners, directors, officers, partners, or other related persons may be imputed to a Respondent in determining whether these criteria are satisfied.
F. Compliance Program: The existence, nature and adequacy of a Respondent's risk-based BIS compliance program at the time of the apparent violation.
OEE will take account of the extent to which a Respondent complies with the principles set forth in BIS's Export Compliance Guidelines. Information about the Export Compliance Guidelines can be accessed through the BIS website at
http://www.bis.gov/.
OEE will also consider whether a Respondent's export compliance program uncovered a problem, thereby preventing further violations, and whether the Respondent has taken steps to address compliance concerns raised by the violation, to include the submission of a VSD and steps to prevent reoccurrence of the violation that are reasonably calculated to be effective. Conversely, OEE will also consider whether a firm has deliberately failed to voluntarily disclose a significant apparent violation uncovered by a company's export compliance program.

# Mitigating Factors
G. Remedial Response.
The Respondent's corrective action taken in response to the apparent violation. Among the factors OEE may consider in evaluating the remedial response are:
1. The steps taken by the Respondent upon learning of the apparent violation. Did the Respondent immediately stop the conduct at issue? Did the Respondent undertake to file a VSD?
2. In the case of an entity, the processes followed to resolve issues related to the apparent violation. Did the Respondent discover necessary information to ascertain the causes and extent of the apparent violation, fully and expeditiously? Was senior management fully informed? If so, when?
3. In the case of an entity, whether it adopted new and more effective internal controls and procedures to prevent the occurrence of similar apparent violations. If the entity did not have a BIS compliance program in place at the time of the apparent violation, did it implement one upon discovery of the apparent violation? If it did have a BIS compliance program, did it take appropriate steps to enhance the program to prevent the recurrence of similar violations? Did the entity provide the individual(s) and/or managers responsible for the apparent violation with additional training, and/or take other appropriate action, to ensure that similar violations do not occur in the future?
4. Where applicable, whether the Respondent undertook a thorough review to identify other apparent violations.
H. Exceptional Cooperation with OEE: The nature and extent of the Respondent's cooperation with OEE, beyond those actions set forth in Factor F.
Among the factors OEE may consider in evaluating exceptional cooperation are:
1. Did the Respondent provide OEE with all relevant information regarding the apparent violation at issue in a timely, comprehensive and responsive manner (whether or not voluntarily self-disclosed), including, if applicable, overseas records?
2. Did the Respondent research and disclose to OEE relevant information regarding any other apparent violations caused by the same course of conduct?
3. Did the Respondent provide substantial assistance in another OEE investigation of another person who may have violated the EAR?
4. Has the Respondent previously made substantial voluntary efforts to provide information (such as providing tips that led to enforcement actions against other parties) to Federal law enforcement authorities in support of the enforcement of U.S. export control regulations? Has the Respondent previously disclosed information regarding the conduct of others that led to enforcement action by OEE?
5. Did the Respondent enter into a statute of limitations tolling agreement, if requested by OEE (particularly in situations where the apparent violations were not immediately disclosed or discovered by OEE, in particularly complex cases, and in cases in which the Respondent has requested and received additional time to respond to a request for information from OEE)? If so, the Respondent's entering into a tolling agreement may be deemed a mitigating factor.
Note:
A Respondent's refusal to enter into a tolling agreement will not be considered by OEE as an aggravating factor in assessing a Respondent's cooperation or otherwise under the Guidelines.
I. License Was Likely To Be Approved.
Would an export license application have likely been approved for the transaction had one been sought? Would the export have qualified for a License Exception? Some license requirements sections in the EAR also set forth a licensing policy (
i.e.,
a statement of the policy under which license applications will be evaluated), such as a general presumption of denial or case by case review. OEE may also consider the licensing history of the specific item to that destination and if the item or end-user has a history of export denials.

# Other Relevant Factors Considered on a Case-by-Case Basis
J. Related Violations.
Frequently, a single export transaction can give rise to multiple violations. For example, an exporter who inadvertently misclassifies an item on the Commerce Control List may, as a result of that error, export the item without the required export license and file Electronic Export Information (EEI) to the Automated Export System (AES) that both misstates the applicable Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) and erroneously identifies the export as qualifying for the designation “NLR” (no license required) or cites a license exception that is not applicable. In so doing, the exporter commits three violations: one violation of § 764.2(a) of the EAR for the unauthorized export and two violations of § 764.2(g) of the EAR for the two false statements on the EEI filing to the AES. OEE will consider whether the violations stemmed from the same underlying error or omission, and whether they resulted in distinguished or separate harm. OEE generally does not charge multiple violations on a single export, and would not consider the existence of such multiple violations as an aggravating factor in and of itself. It is within OEE's discretion to charge separate violations and settle the case for a penalty that is less than would be appropriate for unrelated violations under otherwise similar circumstances, or to charge fewer violations
and pursue settlement in accordance with that charging decision. OEE generally will consider inadvertent, compounded clerical errors as related and not separate infractions when deciding whether to bring charges and in determining if a case is egregious.
K. Multiple Unrelated Violations.
In cases involving multiple unrelated violations, OEE is more likely to seek a denial of export privileges and/or a greater monetary penalty than OEE would otherwise typically seek. For example, repeated unauthorized exports could warrant a denial order, even if a single export of the same item to the same destination under similar circumstances might warrant just a civil monetary penalty. OEE takes this approach because multiple violations may indicate serious compliance problems and a resulting greater risk of future violations. OEE may consider whether a Respondent has taken effective steps to address compliance concerns in determining whether multiple violations warrant a denial order in a particular case.
L. Other Enforcement Action.
Other enforcement actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies against a Respondent for the apparent violation or similar apparent violations, including whether the settlement of alleged violations of BIS regulations is part of a comprehensive settlement with other Federal, State, or local agencies. Where an administrative enforcement matter under the EAR involves conduct giving rise to related criminal or civil charges, OEE may take into account the related violations, and their resolution, in determining what administrative sanctions are appropriate under part 766 of the EAR (15 CFR part 766). A criminal conviction indicates serious, willful misconduct and an accordingly high risk of future violations, absent effective administrative sanctions. However, entry of a guilty plea can be a sign that a Respondent accepts responsibility for complying with the EAR and will take greater care to do so in the future. In appropriate cases where a Respondent is receiving substantial criminal penalties, OEE may find that sufficient deterrence may be achieved by lesser administrative sanctions than would be appropriate in the absence of criminal penalties. Conversely, OEE might seek greater administrative sanctions in an otherwise similar case where a Respondent is not subjected to criminal penalties. The presence of a related criminal or civil disposition may distinguish settlements among civil penalty cases that appear otherwise to be similar. As a result, the factors set forth for consideration in civil penalty settlements will often be applied differently in the context of a “global settlement” of both civil and criminal cases, or multiple civil cases, and may therefore be of limited utility as precedent for future cases, particularly those not involving a global settlement.
M. Future Compliance/Deterrence Effect.
The impact an administrative enforcement action may have on promoting future compliance with the regulations by a Respondent and similar parties, particularly those in the same industry sector.
N. Other Factors That OEE Deems Relevant.
On a case-by-case basis, in determining the appropriate enforcement response and/or the amount of any civil monetary penalty, OEE will consider the totality of the circumstances to ensure that its enforcement response is proportionate to the nature of the violation.

# IV. Civil Penalties

# A. Determining What Sanctions Are Appropriate in a Settlement
OEE will review the facts and circumstances surrounding an apparent violation and apply the Factors Affecting Administrative Sanctions in section III of this supplement in determining the appropriate sanction or sanctions in an administrative case, including the appropriate amount of a civil monetary penalty where such a penalty is sought and imposed. Penalties for settlements reached after the initiation of litigation will usually be higher than those described by these guidelines.

# B. Amount of Civil Penalty
1. Determining Whether a Case is Egregious.
In those cases in which a civil monetary penalty is considered appropriate, the OEE Director will make a determination as to whether a case is deemed “egregious” for purposes of the base penalty calculation. If a case is determined to be egregious, the OEE Director also will also determine the appropriate base penalty amount within the range of base penalty amounts prescribed in paragraphs IV.B.2.a.iii and iv of this supplement. These determinations will be based on an analysis of the applicable factors. In making these determinations, substantial weight will generally be given to Factors A (“willful or reckless violation of law”), B (“awareness of conduct at issue”), C (“harm to regulatory program objectives”), and D (“individual characteristics”), with particular emphasis on Factors A, B, and C.
A case will be considered an “egregious case” where the analysis of the applicable factors, with a focus on Factors A, B, and C, indicates that the case represents a particularly serious violation of the law calling for a strong enforcement response.
2. Monetary Penalties in Egregious Cases and Non-Egregious Cases.
The civil monetary penalty amount shall generally be calculated as follows, except that neither the base penalty amount nor the penalty amount will exceed the applicable statutory maximum:
a. Base Category Calculation and Voluntary Self-Disclosures.
i. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure, the base penalty amount shall be up to one-half of the transaction value.
ii. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OEE's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base penalty amount shall be up to the transaction value.
iii. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure, the base penalty amount shall be an amount up to one-half of the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the violation.
iv. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OEE's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base penalty amount shall be an amount up to the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the violation.
v. The applicable statutory maximum civil penalty per violation of the Export Control Reform Act (ECRA) of 2018 is a fine defined in ECRA and adjusted in accordance with U.S. law,
e.g.,
the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, sec. 701), which in 2024 was $364,992, or an amount that is twice the value of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed, whichever is greater.
The following matrix represents the base penalty amount of the civil monetary penalty for each category of violation:
Base Penalty Matrix
Voluntary self-disclosure?
Egregious case?
NO
YES
YES
(1) Up to One-Half of the Transaction Value
(3) Up to One-Half of the Applicable Statutory Maximum.
NO
(2) Up to the Transaction Value
(4) Up to the Applicable Statutory Maximum.
b. Adjustment for Applicable Relevant Factors.
The base penalty amount of the civil monetary penalty will be adjusted to reflect applicable Factors for Administrative Action set forth in section III of these guidelines. The Factors may result in a penalty amount that is lower or higher than the base penalty amount depending upon whether they are aggravating or mitigating and how they, in the discretion of OEE, apply in combination in a particular case.

# C. Settlement Procedures
The procedures relating to the settlement of administrative enforcement cases are set forth in § 766.18 of the EAR.
[89 FR 75485, Sept. 16, 2024]
Pt. 766, Supp. No. 2

# Supplement No. 2 to Part 766—Guidance on Charging and Penalty Determinations in Settlement of Administrative Enforcement Cases Involving Antiboycott Matters
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
Scope.
This Supplement describes how the Office of Antiboycott Compliance (OAC) responds to violations of part 760 of the EAR “Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts” and to violations of part 762 “Recordkeeping” when the recordkeeping requirement pertains to part 760 (together referred to in this supplement as the “antiboycott provisions”). It also describes how BIS makes penalty determinations in the settlement of administrative enforcement cases brought under parts 764 and 766 of the EAR involving violations of the antiboycott provisions. This supplement does not apply to enforcement cases for violations of other provisions of the EAR.
(2)
Policy Regarding Settlement.
Because many administrative enforcement cases are resolved through settlement, the process of settling such cases is integral to the enforcement program. BIS carefully considers each settlement offer in light of the facts and circumstances of the case, relevant precedent, and BIS's objective to achieve in each case an appropriate level of penalty and deterrent effect. In settlement negotiations, BIS encourages parties to provide, and will give serious consideration to, information and evidence that the parties believe is relevant to the application of this guidance to their cases, to whether a violation has in fact occurred, and to whether they have a defense to potential charges.
(3)
Limitation.
BIS's policy and practice is to treat similarly situated cases similarly, taking into consideration that the facts and combination of mitigating and aggravating factors are different in each case. However, this guidance does not confer any right or impose any obligation regarding what posture or penalties BIS may seek in settling or litigating a case. Parties do not have a right to a settlement offer or particular settlement terms from BIS, regardless of settlement postures BIS has taken in other cases.
(b)
Responding to Violations.
OAC within BIS investigates possible violations of the Anti-Boycott Act of 2018, the antiboycott
provisions of the EAR, or any order or authorization related thereto. When BIS has reason to believe that such a violation has occurred, BIS may issue a warning letter or initiate an administrative enforcement proceeding. A violation may also be referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution.
(1)
Issuing a warning letter.
Warning letters represent BIS's belief that a violation has occurred. In the exercise of its discretion, BIS may determine in certain instances that issuing a warning letter, instead of bringing an administrative enforcement proceeding, will fulfill the appropriate enforcement objective. A warning letter will fully explain the violation.
(i) BIS may issue warning letters where:
(A) The investigation commenced as a result of a voluntary self-disclosure satisfying the requirements of § 764.8 of the EAR; or
(B) The party has not previously committed violations of the antiboycott provisions.
(ii) BIS may also consider the category of violation as discussed in paragraph (d)(2) of this supplement in determining whether to issue a warning letter or initiate an enforcement proceeding. A violation covered by Category C (failure to report or late reporting of receipt of boycott requests) might warrant a warning letter rather than initiation of an enforcement proceeding.
(iii) BIS will not issue a warning letter if it concludes, based on available information, that a violation did not occur.
(iv) BIS may reopen its investigation of a matter should it receive additional evidence or if it appears that information previously provided to BIS during the course of its investigation was incorrect.
(2)
Pursuing an administrative enforcement case.
The issuance of a charging letter under § 766.3 of this part initiates an administrative proceeding.
(i) Charging letters may be issued when there is reason to believe that a violation has occurred. Cases may be settled before or after the issuance of a charging letter. See § 766.18 of this part.
(ii) Although not required to do so by law, BIS may send a proposed charging letter to a party to inform the party of the violations that BIS has reason to believe occurred and how BIS expects that those violations would be charged. Issuance of the proposed charging letter provides an opportunity for the party and BIS to consider settlement of the case prior to the initiation of formal enforcement proceedings.
(3)
Referring for criminal prosecution.
In appropriate cases, BIS may refer a case to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution, in addition to pursuing an administrative enforcement action.
(c)
Types of administrative sanctions.
Administrative enforcement cases generally are settled on terms that include one or more of three administrative sanctions:
(1) A monetary penalty may be assessed for each violation as provided in § 764.3(a)(1) of the EAR;

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
The maximum penalty is subject to adjustments under the Federal Civil Penalties Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461, note (2000)), which are codified at 15 CFR 6.4. For violations that occurred before March 9, 2006, the maximum monetary penalty per violation is $11,000. For violations occurring on or after March 9, 2006, the maximum monetary penalty per violation is $50,000.
(2) An order denying a party's export privileges under the EAR may be issued, under § 764.3(a)(2) of the EAR; or
(3) Exclusion from practice under § 764.3(a)(3) of the EAR.
(d)
How BIS determines what sanctions are appropriate in a settlement
—(1)
General Factors.
BIS looks to the following general factors in determining what administrative sanctions are appropriate in each settlement.
(i)
Degree of seriousness.
In order to violate the antiboycott provisions of the EAR, a U.S. person does not need to have actual “knowledge” or a reason to know, as that term is defined in § 772.1 of the EAR, of relevant U.S. laws and regulations. Typically, in cases that do not involve knowing violations, BIS will seek a settlement for payment of a civil penalty (unless the matter is resolved with a warning letter). However, in cases involving knowing violations, conscious disregard of the antiboycott provisions, or other such serious violations (e.g., furnishing prohibited information in response to a boycott questionnaire with knowledge that such furnishing is in violation of the EAR), BIS is more likely to seek a denial of export privileges or an exclusion from practice, and/or a greater monetary penalty as BIS considers such violations particularly egregious.
(ii) Category of violations. In connection with its activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this supplement, BIS recognizes three categories of violations under the antiboycott provisions of the EAR. (See §§ 760.2, 760.4 and 760.5 of the EAR for examples of each type of violation other than recordkeeping). These categories reflect the relative seriousness of a violation, with Category A violations typically warranting the most stringent penalties, including up to the maximum monetary penalty, a denial order and/or an exclusion order. Through providing these categories in this penalty guidelines notice, BIS hopes to give parties a general sense of how it views the seriousness of various violations. This guidance, however, does not confer any right or impose any obligation as to what penalties BIS may impose
based on its review of the specific facts of a case.
(A) The Category A violations and the sections of the EAR that set forth their elements are:
(
1
) Discriminating against U.S. persons on the basis of race, religion, sex, or national origin—§ 760.2(b);
(
2
) Refusing to do business—§ 760.2(a);
(
3
) Furnishing information about race, religion, sex or national origin of U.S. persons including, but not limited to, providing information in connection with a boycott questionnaire about the religion of employees—760.2(c).
(
4
) Evading the provisions of part 760—§ 760.4; and
(
5
) Furnishing information about associations with charitable or fraternal organizations which support a boycotted country—§ 760.2(e).
(B) The Category B violations and the sections of the EAR that set forth their elements are:
(
1
) Knowingly agreeing to refuse to do business—§ 760.2(a);
(
2
) Requiring, or knowingly agreeing to require, any other person to refuse to do business—§ 760.2(a);
(
3
) Implementing letters of credit—§ 760.2(f);
(
4
) Furnishing information about business relationships with boycotted countries or blacklisted persons—§ 760.2(d); and
(
5
) Making recordkeeping violations—part 762.
(C) The Category C violation and the section of the EAR that sets forth its elements is: Failing to report timely receipt of boycott requests—§ 760.5.
(iii)
Violations arising out of related transactions.
Frequently, a single transaction can give rise to multiple violations. Depending on the facts and circumstances, BIS may choose to impose a smaller or greater penalty per violation. In exercising its discretion, BIS typically looks to factors such as whether the violations resulted from conscious disregard of the requirements of the antiboycott provisions; whether they stemmed from the same underlying error or omission; and whether they resulted in distinguishable or separate harm. The three scenarios set forth below are illustrative of how BIS might view transactions that lead to multiple violations.
(A)
First scenario.
An exporter enters into a sales agreement with a company in a boycotting country. In the course of the negotiations, the company sends the exporter a request for a signed statement certifying that the goods to be supplied do not originate in a boycotted country. The exporter provides the signed certification. Subsequently, the exporter fails to report the receipt of the request. The exporter has committed two violations of the antiboycott provisions, first, a violation of § 760.2(d) for furnishing information concerning the past or present business relationships with or in a boycotted country, and second, a violation of § 760.5 for failure to report the receipt of a request to engage in a restrictive trade practice or boycott. Although the supplier has committed two violations, BIS may impose a smaller mitigated penalty on a per violation basis than if the violations had stemmed from two separate transactions.
(B)
Second scenario.
An exporter receives a boycott request to provide a statement that the goods at issue in a sales transaction do not contain raw materials from a boycotted country and to include the signed statement along with the invoice. The goods are shipped in ten separate shipments. Each shipment includes a copy of the invoice and a copy of the signed boycott-related statement. Each signed statement is a certification that has been furnished in violation of § 760.2(d)'s bar on the furnishing of prohibited business information. Technically, the exporter has committed ten separate violations of § 760.2(d) and one violation of § 760.5 for failure to report receipt of the boycott request. Given that the violations arose from a single boycott request, however, BIS may treat the violations as related and impose a smaller penalty than it would if the furnishing had stemmed from ten separate requests.
(C)
Third scenario.
An exporter has an ongoing relationship with a company in a boycotting country. The company places three separate orders for goods on different dates with the exporter. In connection with each order, the company requests the exporter to provide a signed statement certifying that the goods to be supplied do not originate in a boycotted country. The exporter provides a signed certification with each order of goods that it ships to the company. BIS has the discretion to penalize the furnishing of each of these three items of information as a separate violation of § 760.2(d) of the EAR for furnishing information concerning past or present business relationships with or in a boycotted country.
(iv)
Multiple violations from unrelated transactions.
In cases involving multiple unrelated violations, BIS is more likely to seek a denial of export privileges, an exclusion from practice, and/or a greater monetary penalty than in cases involving isolated incidents. For example, the repeated furnishing of prohibited boycott-related information about business relationships with or in boycotted countries during a long period of time could warrant a denial order, even if a single instance of furnishing such information might warrant only a monetary penalty. BIS takes this approach because multiple violations may indicate serious compliance problems and a resulting risk of future violations. BIS
may consider whether a party has taken effective steps to address compliance concerns in determining whether multiple violations warrant a denial or exclusion order in a particular case.
(v)
Timing of settlement.
Under § 766.18 of this part, settlement can occur before a charging letter is served, while a case is before an administrative law judge, or while a case is before the Under Secretary for Industry and Security under § 766.22 of this part. However, early settlement—for example, before a charging letter has been filed—has the benefit of freeing resources for BIS to deploy in other matters. In contrast, for example, the BIS resources saved by settlement on the eve of an adversary hearing under § 766.13 of this part are fewer, insofar as BIS has already expended significant resources on discovery, motions practice, and trial preparation. Given the importance of allocating BIS resources to maximize enforcement of the EAR, BIS has an interest in encouraging early settlement and will take this interest into account in determining settlement terms.
(vi)
Related criminal or civil violations.
Where an administrative enforcement matter under the antiboycott provisions involves conduct giving rise to related criminal charges, BIS may take into account the related violations and their resolution in determining what administrative sanctions are appropriate under part 766 of the EAR. A criminal conviction indicates serious, willful misconduct and an accordingly high risk of future violations, absent effective administrative sanctions. However, entry of a guilty plea can be a sign that a party accepts responsibility for complying with the antiboycott provisions and will take greater care to do so in the future. In appropriate cases where a party is receiving substantial criminal penalties, BIS may find that sufficient deterrence may be achieved by lesser administrative sanctions than would be appropriate in the absence of criminal penalties. Conversely, BIS might seek greater administrative sanctions in an otherwise similar case where a party is not subjected to criminal penalties. The presence of a related criminal or civil disposition may distinguish settlements among civil penalty cases that appear to be otherwise similar. As a result, the factors set forth for consideration in civil penalty settlements will often be applied differently in the context of a “global settlement” of both civil and criminal cases, or multiple civil cases involving other agencies, and may therefore be of limited utility as precedent for future cases, particularly those not involving a global settlement.
(vii)
Familiarity with the Antiboycott Provisions.
Given the scope and detailed nature of the antiboycott provisions, BIS will consider whether a party is an experienced participant in the international business arena who may possess (or ought to possess) familiarity with the antiboycott laws. In this respect, the size of the party's business, the presence or absence of a legal division or corporate compliance program, and the extent of prior involvement in business with or in boycotted or boycotting countries, may be significant.
(2)
Specific mitigating and aggravating factors.
In addition to the general factors described in paragraph (d)(1) of this supplement, BIS also generally looks to the presence or absence of the specific mitigating and aggravating factors in this paragraph in determining what sanctions should apply in a given settlement. These factors describe circumstances that, in BIS's experience, are commonly relevant to penalty determinations in settled cases. However, this listing of factors is not exhaustive and BIS may consider other factors that may further indicate the blameworthiness of a party's conduct, the actual or potential harm associated with a violation, the likelihood of future violations, and/or other considerations relevant to determining what sanctions are appropriate. The assignment of mitigating or aggravating factors will depend upon the attendant circumstances of the party's conduct. Thus, for example, one prior violation should be given less weight than a history of multiple violations, and a previous violation reported in a voluntary self-disclosure by a party whose overall compliance efforts are of high quality should be given less weight than previous violation(s) not involving such mitigating factors. Some of the mitigating factors listed in this paragraph are designated as having “great weight.” When present, such a factor should ordinarily be given considerably more weight than a factor that is not so designated.
(i)
Specific mitigating factors.
(A)
Voluntary self-disclosure.
(GREAT WEIGHT) The party has made a voluntary self-disclosure of the violation, satisfying the requirements of § 764.8 of the EAR.
(B)
Effective compliance program.
(GREAT WEIGHT)
(
1
)
General policy or program pertaining to Antiboycott Provisions.
BIS will consider whether a party's compliance efforts uncovered a problem, thereby preventing further violations, and whether the party has taken steps to address compliance concerns raised by the violation, including steps to prevent recurrence of the violation, that are reasonably calculated to be effective. The focus is on the party's demonstrated compliance with the antiboycott provisions. Whether a party has an effective export compliance program covering other provisions of the EAR is not relevant as a mitigating factor. In the case of a party that has done previous business with or in boycotted countries or boycotting countries, BIS will examine whether the party has an effective
antiboycott compliance program and whether its overall antiboycott compliance efforts have been of high quality. BIS may deem it appropriate to review the party's internal business documents relating to antiboycott compliance (e.g., corporate compliance manuals, employee training materials).
(
2
)
Compliance with reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
In the case of a party that has received reportable boycott requests in the past, BIS may examine whether the party complied with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of the antiboycott provisions.
(C)
Limited business with or in boycotted or boycotting countries.
The party has had little to no previous experience in conducting business with or in boycotted or boycotting countries. Prior to the current enforcement proceeding, the party had not engaged in business with or in such countries, or had only transacted such business on isolated occasions. BIS may examine the volume of business that the party has conducted with or in boycotted or boycotting countries as demonstrated by the size and dollar amount of transactions or the percentage of a party's overall business that such business constitutes.
(D)
History of compliance with the Antiboycott Provisions of the EAR.
(
1
) BIS will consider it to be a mitigating factor if:
(
i
) The party has never been convicted of a criminal violation of the antiboycott provisions;
(
ii
) In the past 5 years, the party has not entered into a settlement or been found liable in a boycott-related administrative enforcement case with BIS or another U.S. government agency;
(
iii
) In the past 3 years, the party has not received a warning letter from BIS relating to the antiboycott provisions; or
(
iv
) In the past 5 years, the party has not otherwise violated the antiboycott provisions.
(
2
) Where necessary to ensure effective enforcement, the prior involvement in violations of the antiboycott provisions of a party's owners, directors, officers, partners, or other related persons may be imputed to a party in determining whether these criteria are satisfied. When an acquiring firm takes reasonable steps to uncover, correct, and disclose to BIS conduct that gave rise to violations that the acquired business committed before the acquisition, BIS typically will not take such violations into account in applying this factor in settling other violations by the acquiring firm.
(E)
Exceptional cooperation with the investigation.
The party has provided exceptional cooperation to OAC during the course of the investigation.
(F)
Clarity of request to furnish prohibited information or take prohibited action.
The party responded to a request to furnish information or take action that was ambiguously worded or vague.
(G)
Violations arising out of a party's “passive” refusal to do business in connection with an agreement.
The party has acquiesced in or abided by terms or conditions that constitute a prohibited refusal to do business (e.g., responded to a tender document that contains prohibited language by sending a bid). See “active” agreements to refuse to do business in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(I) of this supplement.
(H)
Isolated occurrence of violation.
The violation was an isolated occurrence. (Compare to long duration or high frequency of violations as an aggravating factor in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this supplement.)
(ii)
Specific Aggravating Factors.
(A)
Concealment or obstruction.
The party made a deliberate effort to hide or conceal the violation. (GREAT WEIGHT)
(B)
Serious disregard for compliance responsibilities.
(GREAT WEIGHT] There is evidence that the party's conduct demonstrated a serious disregard for responsibilities associated with compliance with the antiboycott provisions (e.g.: knowing violation of party's own compliance policy or evidence that a party chose to treat potential penalties as a cost of doing business rather than develop a compliance policy).
(C)
History of compliance with the Antiboycott Provisions.
(
1
) BIS will consider it to be an aggravating factor if:
(
i
) The party has been convicted of a criminal violation of the antiboycott provisions;
(
ii
) In the past 5 years, the party has entered into a settlement or been found liable in a boycott-related administrative enforcement case with BIS or another U.S. government agency;
(
iii
) In the past 3 years, the party has received a warning letter from BIS relating to the antiboycott provisions; or
(
iv
) In the past 5 years, the party has otherwise violated the antiboycott provisions.
(
2
) Where necessary to ensure effective enforcement, the prior involvement in violations of the antiboycott provisions of a party's owners, directors, officers, partners, or other related persons may be imputed to a party in determining whether these criteria are satisfied.
(
3
) When an acquiring firm takes reasonable steps to uncover, correct, and disclose to BIS conduct that gave rise to violations that the acquired firm committed before being acquired, BIS typically will not take such violations into account in applying this factor in settling other violations by the acquiring firm.
(D)
Familiarity with the type of transaction at issue in the violation.
For example, in the case of a violation involving a letter of credit or related financial document, the party
routinely pays, negotiates, confirms, or otherwise implements letters of credit or related financial documents in the course of its standard business practices.
(E)
Prior history of business with or in boycotted countries or boycotting countries.
The party has a prior history of conducting business with or in boycotted and boycotting countries. BIS may examine the volume of business that the party has conducted with or in boycotted and boycotting countries as reflected by the size and dollar amount of transactions or the percentage of a party's overall business that such business constitutes.
(F)
Long duration or high frequency of violations.
Violations that occur at frequent intervals or repeated violations occurring over an extended period of time may be treated more seriously than a single violation or related violations that are committed within a brief period of time, particularly if the violations are committed by a party with a history of business with or in boycotted and boycotting countries. (Compare to isolated occurrence of violation in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(H) of this supplement.)
(G)
Clarity of request to furnish prohibited information or take prohibited action.
The request to furnish information or take other prohibited action (e.g., enter into agreement to refuse to do business with a boycotted country or entity blacklisted by a boycotting country) is facially clear as to its intended purpose.
(H)
Violation relating to specific information concerning an individual entity or individual.
The party has furnished prohibited information about business relationships with specific companies or individuals.
(I)
Violations relating to “active” conduct concerning an agreement to refuse to do business.
The party has taken action that involves altering, editing, or enhancing prohibited terms or language in an agreement to refuse to do business, including a letter of credit, or drafting a clause or provision including prohibited terms or language in the course of negotiating an agreement to refuse to do business, including a letter of credit. See “passive” agreements to refuse to do business in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(G) of this supplement.
(e)
Determination of Scope of Denial or Exclusion Order.
In deciding whether and what scope of denial or exclusion order is appropriate, the following factors are particularly relevant: The presence of mitigating or aggravating factors of great weight; the degree of seriousness involved; the extent to which senior management participated in or was aware of the conduct in question; the number of violations; the existence and seriousness of prior violations; the likelihood of future violations (taking into account relevant efforts to comply with the antiboycott provisions); and whether a civil monetary penalty can be expected to have a sufficient deterrent effect.
(f)
How BIS Makes Suspension and Deferral Decisions
—(1)
Civil Penalties.
In appropriate cases, payment of a civil monetary penalty may be deferred or suspended. See § 764.3(a)(1)(iii) of the EAR. In determining whether suspension or deferral is appropriate, BIS may consider, for example, whether the party has demonstrated a limited ability to pay a penalty that would be appropriate for such violations, so that suspended or deferred payment can be expected to have sufficient deterrent value, and whether, in light of all the circumstances, such suspension or deferral is necessary to make the impact of the penalty consistent with the impact of BIS penalties on other parties who committed similar violations.
(2)
Denial of Export Privileges and Exclusion from Practice.
In deciding whether a denial or exclusion order should be suspended, BIS may consider, for example, the adverse economic consequences of the order on the party, its employees, and other persons, as well as on the national interest in maintaining or promoting the competitiveness of U.S. businesses. An otherwise appropriate denial or exclusion order will be suspended on the basis of adverse economic consequences only if it is found that future violations of the antiboycott provisions are unlikely and if there are adequate measures (usually a substantial civil monetary penalty) to achieve the necessary deterrent effect.
[72 FR 39006, July 17, 2007, as amended at 87 FR 60892, Oct. 7, 2022]
Pt. 768

# PART 768—FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
Sec.
768.1
Introduction.
768.2
Foreign availability described.
768.3
Foreign availability assessment.
768.4
Initiation of an assessment.
768.5
Contents of foreign availability submissions and Technical Advisory Committee certifications.
768.6
Criteria.
768.7
Procedures.
768.8
Eligibility of expedited licensing procedures for non-controlled countries.
768.9
Appeals of negative foreign availability determinations.
768.10
Removal of controls on less sophisticated items.
Supplement No. 1 to Part 768—Evidence of Foreign Availability
Supplement No. 2 to Part 768—Items Eligible For Expedited Licensing Procedures [Reserved]

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783; Notice of August 15, 2017, 82 FR 39005 (August 16, 2017).

# Source:
61 FR 12915, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 768.1
Introduction.
In this part, references to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C.
(a)
Authority.
Pursuant to sections 5(f) and 5(h) of the Export Administration Act (EAA), the Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration directs the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) in gathering and analyzing all the evidence necessary for the Secretary to determine foreign availability.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies only to the extent that items are controlled for national security purposes. This part does not apply to encryption items that were formerly controlled on the U.S. Munitions List and that were transferred to the Commerce Control List consistent with E.O. 13026 of November 15, 1996 (61 FR 58767) and pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of that date, which shall not be subject to any mandatory foreign availability review procedures.
(c)
Types of programs.
There are two general programs of foreign availability:
(1)
Foreign availability to controlled countries.
In this category are denied license assessments (see §§ 768.4(b) and 768.7 of this part) and decontrol assessments (see §§ 768.4(c) and 768.7 of this part).
(2)
Foreign availability to non-controlled countries.
In this category are denied license assessments, decontrol assessments, and evaluations of eligibility for expedited licensing (see § 768.8 of this part).
(d)
Definitions.
The following are definitions of terms used in this part 768:
Allegation.
See foreign availability submission.
Assessment.
An evidentiary analysis that BIS conducts concerning the foreign availability of a given item based on the assessment criteria, data gathered by BIS, and the data and recommendations submitted by the Departments of Defense and State and other relevant departments and agencies, TAC committees, and industry.
Assessment criteria.
Statutorily established criteria that must be assessed for the Secretary to make a determination with respect to foreign availability. They are, available-in-fact, from a non-U.S. source, in sufficient quantity so as to render the control ineffective, and of comparable quality. (See § 768.6 of this part).
Available-in-fact.
An item is available-in-fact to a country if it is produced within the country or if it may be obtained by that country from a third country. Ordinarily, items will not be considered available-in-fact to non-controlled countries if the items are available only under a validated national security license or a comparable authorization from a country that maintains export controls on such items cooperatively with the United States.
Claimant.
Any party who makes a foreign availability submission, excluding TACs.
Comparable quality.
An item is of comparable quality to an item controlled under the EAR if it possesses the characteristics specified in the Commerce Control List (CCL) for that item and is alike in key characteristics that include, but are not limited to: (1) Function; (2) technological approach; (3) performance thresholds; (4) maintainability and service life; and (5) any other attribute relevant to the purpose for which the control was placed on the item.
Controlled countries.
Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, North Korea, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Vietnam and the People's Republic of China.
Decontrol.
Removal of license requirements under the EAR.
Decontrol assessment.
An assessment of the foreign availability of an item to a country or countries for purposes of determining whether decontrol is warranted. Such assessments may be conducted after BIS receives a foreign
availability submission or a TAC certification, or by the Secretary's own initiative.
Denied license assessment.
A foreign availability assessment conducted as a result of a claimant's allegation of foreign availability for an item (or items) that BIS has denied or has issued a letter of intent to deny a license. If the Secretary determines that foreign availability exists, BIS's approval of a license will be limited to the items, countries, and quantities in the allegation.
Determination.
The Secretary's decision that foreign availability within the meaning of the EAA does or does not exist. (See § 768.7 of this part).
Expedited licensing procedure eligibility evaluation.
An evaluation that BIS initiates for the purpose of determining whether an item is eligible for the expedited licensing procedure. (See § 768.8 of this part).
Expedited licensing procedures.
Under expedited licensing procedures, BIS reviews and processes a license application for the export of an eligible item to a non-controlled country within statutory time limits. Licenses are deemed approved unless BIS denies within the statutory time limits (See § 768.8 of this part).
Foreign availability submission (FAS).
An allegation of foreign availability a claimant makes, supported by reasonable evidence, and submits to BIS. (See § 768.5 of this part).
Item.
Any commodity, software, or technology.
Items eligible for non-controlled country expedited licensing procedures.
The items described in supplement no. 2 to this part 768 are eligible for the expedited license procedures (See § 768.8 of this part).
National Security Override (NSO).
A Presidential decision to maintain export controls on an item notwithstanding its foreign availability as determined under the EAA. The President's decision is based on his/her determination that the absence of the controls would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States. Once the President makes such a decision, the President must actively pursue negotiations to eliminate foreign availability with the governments of the sources of foreign availability. (See § 768.7 of this part).
Non-controlled countries.
Any country not defined as a controlled country by this section.
Non-U.S. source/foreign source.
A person located outside the jurisdiction of the United States (as defined in part 772 of the EAR).
Reasonable evidence.
Relevant information that is credible.
Reliable evidence.
Relevant information that is credible and dependable.
Secretary.
As used in this part, the Secretary refers to the Secretary of Commerce or his/her designee.
Similar quality.
An item is of similar quality to an item that is controlled under the EAR if it is substantially alike in key characteristics that may include, but are not limited to: (1) Function; (2) technological approach; (3) performance thresholds; (4) maintainability and service life; and (5) any other attribute relevant to the purpose for which the control was placed on the item.
Sufficient quantity.
The amount of an item that would render the U.S. export control, or the denial of the license in question, ineffective in achieving its purpose. For a controlled country, it is the quantity that meets the military needs of that country so that U.S. exports of the item to that country would not make a significant contribution to its military potential.
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).
A Committee created under section 5(h) of the EAA that advises and assists the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Defense, and any other department, agency, or official of the Government of the United States to which the President delegates authority under the EAA on export control matters related to specific areas of controlled items.
TAC certification.
A statement that a TAC submits to BIS, supported by reasonable evidence, documented as in a FAS, that foreign availability to a controlled country exists for an item that falls within the TAC's area of technical expertise.
[61 FR 12915, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 68585, Dec. 30, 1996; 62 FR 25469, May 9, 1997]
§ 768.2
Foreign availability described.
(a)
Foreign availability.
Foreign availability exists when the Secretary determines that an item is comparable in quality to an item subject to U.S. national security export controls, and is available-in-fact to a country, from a non-U.S. source, in sufficient quantities to render the U.S. export control of that item or the denial of a license ineffective. For a controlled country, such control or denial is “ineffective” when maintaining such control or denying a specific license would not restrict the availability of items that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of the controlled country or combination of countries detrimental to the national security of the United States (see sections 5(a) and 3(2)(A) of the EAA.)
(b)
Types of foreign availability.
There are two types of foreign availability:
(1) Foreign availability to a controlled country; and
(2) Foreign availability to a non-controlled country.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of this section:
See § 768.7 of this part for delineation of the foreign availability assessment procedures, and § 768.6 of this part for the criteria used in determining foreign availability.
§ 768.3
Foreign availability assessment.
(a)
Foreign availability assessment.
A foreign availability assessment is an evidentiary analysis that BIS conducts to assess the foreign availability of a given item according to the assessment criteria, based on data submitted by a claimant, the data gathered by BIS, and the data and recommendations submitted by the Departments of Defense and State and other relevant departments and agencies, TAC committees, and industry. BIS uses the results of the analysis in formulating its recommendation to the Secretary on whether foreign availability exists for a given item. If the Secretary determines that foreign availability exists, the Secretary will decontrol the item for national security reasons or approve the license in question if there is no foreign policy reason to deny the license, unless the President exercises a National Security Override (see § 768.7 of this part). The effect of any such determination on the effectiveness of foreign policy controls may be considered independent of this part.
(b)
Types of assessments.
There are two types of foreign availability assessments:
(1) Denied license assessment; and
(2) Decontrol assessment.
(c)
Expedited licensing procedures.
See § 768.8 of this part for the evaluation of eligibility of an item for the expedited licensing procedures.
[61 FR 12915, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 68585, Dec. 30, 1996]
§ 768.4
Initiation of an assessment.
(a)
Assessment request.
To initiate an assessment, each claimant or TAC must submit a FAS or a TAC Certification to BIS. TACs are authorized to certify foreign availability only to controlled countries. Claimants can allege foreign availability for either controlled or non-controlled countries.
(b)
Denied license assessment.
A claimant whose license application BIS has denied, or for which it has issued a letter of intent to deny on national security grounds, may request that BIS initiate a denied license assessment by submitting a Foreign Availability Submission (FAS) within 90 days after denial of the license. As part of its submission, the claimant must request that the specified license application be approved on the grounds of foreign availability. The evidence must relate to the particular export as described on the license application and to the alleged comparable item. If foreign availability is found, the Secretary will approve the license for the specific items, countries, and quantities listed on the application. The denied license assessment procedure, however, is not intended to result in the removal of the U.S. export control on an item by incrementally providing a country with amounts that, taken together, would constitute a sufficient quantity of an item. The Secretary will not approve on foreign availability grounds a denied license if the approval of such license would itself render the U.S. export control ineffective in achieving its purpose. In the case of a positive determination, the Secretary will determine
whether a decontrol assessment is warranted. If so, then BIS will initiate a decontrol assessment.
(c)
Decontrol assessment.
(1) Any claimant may at any time request that BIS initiate a decontrol assessment by a FAS to BIS alleging foreign availability to any country or countries.
(2) A TAC may request that BIS initiate a decontrol assessment at any time by submitting a TAC Certification to BIS that there is foreign availability to a controlled country for items that fall within the area of the TAC's technical expertise.
(3) The Secretary, on his/her own initiative, may initiate a decontrol assessment.
(d)
BIS mailing address.
All foreign availability submissions and TAC certifications should be submitted to: Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Room H-1093, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20230.
[61 FR 12915, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 25196, May 4, 2007]
§ 768.5
Contents of foreign availability submissions and Technical Advisory Committee certifications.
(a) All foreign availability submissions must contain, in addition to information on product or technology alleged to be available from foreign sources, at least:
(1) The name of the claimant;
(2) The claimant's mailing and business address;
(3) The claimant's telephone number; and
(4) A contact point and telephone number.
(b) Foreign availability submissions and TAC certifications should contain as much evidence as is available to support the claim, including, but not limited to:
(1) Product names and model designations of the items alleged to be comparable;
(2) Extent to which the alleged comparable item is based on U.S. technology;
(3) Names and locations of the non-U.S. sources and the basis for claiming that the item is a non-U.S. source item;
(4) Key performance elements, attributes, and characteristics of the items on which a qualitative comparison may be made;
(5) Non-U.S. source's production quantities and/or sales of the alleged comparable items and marketing efforts;
(6) Estimated market demand and the economic impact of the control;
(7) Product names, model designations, and value of U.S. controlled parts and components incorporated in the items alleged to be comparable; and
(8) The basis for the claim that the item is available-in-fact to the country or countries for which foreign availability is alleged.
(c) Supporting evidence of foreign availability may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Foreign manufacturers' catalogs, brochures, operation or maintenance manuals;
(2) Articles from reputable trade and technical publications;
(3) Photographs;
(4) Depositions based on eyewitness accounts; and
(5) Other credible evidence.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ) of this section:
See supplement no. 1 to part 768 for additional examples of supporting evidence.
(d) Upon receipt of a FAS or TAC certification, BIS will review it to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to support the belief that foreign availability may exist. If BIS determines the FAS or TAC certification is lacking in supporting evidence, BIS will seek additional evidence from appropriate sources, including the claimant or TAC. BIS will initiate the assessment when it determines that it has sufficient evidence that foreign availability may exist. Claimant and TAC certified assessments will be deemed to be initiated as of the date of such determination.
(e) Claimants and TACs are advised to review the foreign availability assessment criteria described in § 768.6 of this part and the examples of evidence described in supplement no. 1 to part 768 when assembling supporting evidence for inclusion in the FAS or TAC certification.
§ 768.6
Criteria.
BIS will evaluate the evidence contained in a FAS or TAC certification and all other evidence gathered in the assessment process in accordance with certain criteria that must be met before BIS can recommend a positive determination to the Secretary. The criteria are defined in § 768.1(d) of this part. In order to initiate an assessment, each FAS and TAC certification should address each of these criteria. The criteria are statutorily prescribed and are:
(a) Available-in-fact;
(b) Non-U.S. source;
(c) Sufficient quantity; and
(d) Comparable quality.
§ 768.7
Procedures.
(a)
Initiation of an assessment.
(1) Once BIS accepts a FAS or TAC certification of foreign availability, BIS will notify the claimant or TAC that it is initiating the assessment.
(2) BIS will publish a
Federal Register
notice of the initiation of any assessment.
(3) BIS will notify the Departments of Defense and State, the intelligence community, and any other departments, agencies and their contractors that may have information concerning the item on which BIS has initiated an assessment. Each such department, agency, and contractor shall provide BIS all relevant information concerning the item. BIS will invite interested departments and agencies to participate in the assessment process (See paragraph (e) of this section).
(b)
Data gathering.
BIS will seek and consider all available information that bears upon the presence or absence of foreign availability, including but not limited to that evidence described in § 768.5 (b) and (c) of this part. As soon as BIS initiates the assessment, it will seek evidence relevant to the assessment, including an analysis of the military needs of a selected country or countries, technical analysis, and intelligence information from the Departments of Defense and State, and other U.S. agencies. Evidence is particularly sought from: industry sources worldwide; other U.S. organizations; foreign governments; commercial, academic and classified data bases; scientific and engineering research and development organizations; and international trade fairs.
(c)
Analysis.
BIS will conduct its analysis by evaluating whether the reasonable and reliable evidence that is relevant to each of the foreign availability criteria provides a sufficient basis to recommend a determination that foreign availability does or does not exist.
(d)
Recommendation and determination.
(1) Upon completion of each assessment, BIS, on the basis of its analysis, will recommend that the Secretary make a determination either that there is or that there is not foreign availability, whichever the evidence supports. The assessment upon which BIS bases its recommendation will accompany the recommendation to the Secretary.
(2) BIS will recommend on the basis of its analysis that the Secretary determine that foreign availability exists to a country when the available evidence demonstrates that an item of comparable quality is available-in-fact to the country, from non-U.S. sources, in sufficient quantity so that continuation of the existing national security export control, or denial of the license application in question on national security grounds, would be ineffective in achieving its purpose. For a controlled country, such control or denial is “ineffective” when comparable items are available-in-fact from foreign sources in sufficient quantities so that maintaining such control or denying a license would not be effective in restricting the availability of items that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of any country or combination of countries detrimental to the national security of the United States.
(3) The Secretary will make the determination of foreign availability on the basis of the BIS assessment and recommendation; the Secretary's determination will take into account the evidence provided to BIS, the recommendations of the Secretaries of Defense and State and any other interested agencies, and any other information that the Secretary considers relevant.
(4) For all decontrol and denied license assessments (under section 5(f)(3) of the EAA) initiated by a FAS, the Secretary will make a determination within 4 months of the initiation of the assessment and will notify the claimant. The Secretary will submit positive determinations for review to the appropriate departments and agencies.
(5) The deadlines for determinations based on self-initiated and TAC-initiated assessments are different from the deadlines for claimant-initiated assessments (see paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section).
(e)
Interagency review.
BIS will notify all appropriate U.S. agencies and Departments upon the initiation of an assessment and will invite their participation in the assessment process. BIS will provide all interested agencies and departments an opportunity to review source material, draft analyses and draft assessments immediately upon their receipt or production. For claimant-initiated assessments, BIS will provide a copy of all positive recommendations and assessments to interested agencies and departments for their review following the Secretary's determination of foreign availability. For self-initiated and TAC-initiated assessments, BIS will provide all interested agencies an opportunity to review and comment on the assessment.
(f)
Notification.
(1) No later than 5 months after the initiation of an assessment based on a FAS (claimant assessments), the Secretary will inform the claimant in writing and will submit for publication in the
Federal Register
a notice that:
(i) Foreign availability exists, and
(A) The requirement of a license has been removed or the license application in question has been approved; or
(B) The President has determined that for national security purposes the export controls must be maintained or the license application must be denied, notwithstanding foreign availability, and that appropriate steps to eliminate the foreign availability are being initiated; or
(C) In the case of an item controlled multilaterally under the former COCOM regime, the U.S. Government will conduct any necessary consultations concerning the proposed decontrol or approval of the license with the former COCOM regime for a period of up to 4 months from the date of the publication of the determination in the
Federal Register
(the U.S. Government may remove the license requirement for exports to non-controlled countries pending completion of the former COCOM regime review process); or
(ii) Foreign availability does not exist.
(2) For all TAC certification assessments, the Secretary will make a foreign availability determination within 90 days following initiation of the assessment. BIS will prepare and submit a report to the TAC and to the Congress stating that:
(i) The Secretary has found foreign availability and has removed the license requirement; or
(ii) The Secretary has found foreign availability, but has recommended to the President that negotiations be undertaken to eliminate the foreign availability; or
(iii) The Secretary has not found foreign availability.
(3) There is no statutory deadline for assessments self-initiated by the Secretary or for the resulting determination. However, BIS will make every effort to complete such assessments and determinations promptly.
(g)
Foreign availability to controlled countries.
When the Secretary determines that an item controlled for national security reasons is available to a controlled country and the President does not issue a National Security Override (NSO), BIS will submit the determination to the Department of State, along with a draft proposal for the multilateral decontrol of the item or for the former COCOM regime approval of the license. The Department of State will submit the proposal or the license for former COCOM regime review. The former COCOM regime will have up to 4 months for review of the proposal.
(h)
Foreign availability to non-controlled countries.
If the Secretary determines that foreign availability to non-controlled countries exists, the Secretary will decontrol the item for export to all non-controlled countries
where it is found to be available, or approve the license in question, unless the President exercises a National Security Override.
(i)
Negotiations to eliminate foreign availability.
(1) The President may determine that an export control must be maintained notwithstanding the existence of foreign availability. Such a determination is called a National Security Override (NSO) and is based on the President's decision that the absence of the control would prove detrimental to the United States national security. Unless extended (as described in paragraph (i)(7) of this section), an NSO is effective for 6 months. Where the President invokes an NSO, the U.S. Government will actively pursue negotiations with the government of any source country during the 6 month period to eliminate the availability.
(2) There are two types of National Security Overrides:
(i) An NSO of a determination of foreign availability resulting from an assessment initiated pursuant to section 5(f) of the EAA (claimant and self-initiated assessments); and
(ii) An NSO of a determination of foreign availability resulting from an assessment initiated pursuant to section 5(h) of the EAA (TAC-certification assessments).
(3) For an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, the Secretary of any agency may recommend that the President exercise the authority under the EAA to retain the controls or deny the license notwithstanding the finding of foreign availability.
(4) For an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(h) of the EAA, the Secretary of Commerce may recommend that the President exercise the authority under the EAA to retain the controls notwithstanding the finding of foreign availability.
(5) Under an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives will be notified of the initiation of the required negotiations. The notice will include an explanation of the national security interest that necessitates the retention of controls.
(6) Under an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, BIS will publish notices in the
Federal Register
consisting of:
(i) The Secretary's determination of foreign availability;
(ii) The President's decision to exercise the NSO;
(iii) A concise statement of the basis for the President's decision; and
(iv) An estimate of the economic impact of the decision.
(7) The 6 month effective period for an NSO may be extended up to an additional 12 months if, prior to the end of the 6 months, the President certifies to Congress that the negotiations are progressing, and determines that the absence of the controls would continue to be detrimental to the United States national security.
(8) After the conclusion of negotiations, BIS will retain the control only to the extent that foreign availability is eliminated. If foreign availability is not eliminated, BIS will decontrol the item by removing the requirement for a license for the export of the item to the destinations covered by the assessment. To the extent that the negotiations are successful and the foreign availability is eliminated, BIS will remove the license requirement for the export of the item to any country that has agreed to eliminate foreign availability.
(j)
Changes in foreign availability.
If BIS becomes aware of conditions, including new evidence, that affect a previous determination that foreign availability exists or does not exist, BIS may review the conditions. If BIS finds that the foreign availability previously determined no longer exists, or that foreign availability not earlier found now does exist, BIS will make a recommendation to the Secretary of Commerce for the appropriate changes in the control. The Secretary of Commerce will make a determination, and BIS will publish a
Federal Register
notice of the determination.
§ 768.8
Eligibility of expedited licensing procedures for non-controlled countries.
(a) BIS determines the eligibility of an item for expedited licensing procedures on the basis of an evaluation of the foreign availability of the item. Eligibility is specific to the items and the countries to which they are found to be available.
(b) BIS will initiate an eligibility evaluation:
(1) On its own initiative;
(2) On receipt of a FAS; or
(3) On receipt of a TAC certification.
(c) Upon initiation of an eligibility evaluation following receipt of either a FAS or TAC certification, BIS will notify the claimant or TAC of the receipt and initiation of an evaluation and publish a
Federal Register
notice of the initiation of the evaluation.
(d) The criteria for determining eligibility for expedited licensing procedures are:
(1) The item must be available-in-fact to the specified
non-controlled country from a foreign source;
(2) The item must be of a quality similar to that of the U.S.-controlled item; and
(3) The item must be available-in-fact to the specified non-controlled country without effective restrictions.
(e) Within 30 days of initiation of the evaluation, the Secretary of Commerce will make a determination of foreign availability on the basis of the BIS evaluation and recommendation, taking into consideration the evidence the Secretaries of Defense, State, and other interested agencies provide to BIS and any other information that the Secretary considers relevant.
(f) Within 30 days of the receipt of the FAS or TAC certification, BIS will publish the Secretary's determination in the
Federal Register,
that the item will or will not be eligible for expedited licensing procedures to the stated countries and, where appropriate, amend supplement no. 2 to part 768.
(g) Following completion of a self-initiated evaluation, BIS will be notified of the Secretary's determination and, where appropriate, supplement no. 2 to part 768 will be amended.
(h) Foreign availability submissions and TAC certifications to initiate an expedited licensing procedure evaluation must be clearly designated on their face as a request for expedited licensing procedure and must specify the items, quantities and countries alleged eligible. Submissions and certifications should be sent to: Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Room H-1093, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230.
[61 FR 12915, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 25196, May 4, 2007]
§ 768.9
Appeals of negative foreign availability determinations.
Appeals of negative determinations will be conducted according to the standards and procedures described in part 756 of the EAR. A Presidential decision (NSO) to deny a license or continue controls notwithstanding a determination of foreign availability is not subject to appeal.
§ 768.10
Removal of controls on less sophisticated items.
Where the Secretary has removed national security controls on an item for foreign availability reasons, the Secretary will also remove controls on similar items that are controlled for national security reasons and whose functions, technological approach, performance thresholds, and other attributes that form the basis for national security export controls do not exceed the technical parameters of the item that BIS has decontrolled for foreign availability reasons.
Pt. 768, Supp. No. 1

# Supplement No. 1 to Part 768—Evidence of Foreign Availability
This supplement provides a list of examples of evidence that the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) has found to be useful in conducting assessments of foreign availability. A claimant submitting evidence supporting a claim of foreign availability should review this list for suggestions as evidence is collected. Acceptable evidence indicating possible foreign availability is not limited to these examples, nor is any one of these examples, usually, in and of itself, necessarily sufficient to meet a foreign availability criterion. A combination of several types of evidence for each criterion usually is required. A Foreign Availability Submission (FAS)
should include as much evidence as possible on all four of the criteria listed below. BIS combines the submitted evidence with the evidence that it collects from other sources. BIS evaluates all evidence, taking into account factors that may include, but are not limited to: Information concerning the source of the evidence, corroborative or contradictory indications, and experience concerning the reliability or reasonableness of such evidence. BIS will assess all relevant evidence to determine whether each of the four criteria has been met. Where possible, all information should be in writing. If information is based on third party documentation, the submitter should provide such documentation to BIS. If information is based on oral statements a third party made, the submitter should provide a memorandum of the conversation to BIS if the submitter cannot obtain a written memorandum from the source. BIS will amend this informational list as it identifies new examples of evidence.
(a) Examples of evidence of foreign availability:
The following are intended as examples of evidence that BIS will consider in evaluating foreign availability. BIS will evaluate all evidence according to the provisions in § 768.7(c) of this part in order for it to be used in support of a foreign availability determination. This list is illustrative only.
(1)
Available-in-fact:
(i) Evidence of marketing of an item in a foreign country (e.g., an advertisement in the media of the foreign country that the item is for sale there);
(ii) Copies of sales receipts demonstrating sales to foreign countries;
(iii) The terms of a contract under which the item has been or is being sold to a foreign country;
(iv) Information, preferably in writing, from an appropriate foreign government official that the government will not deny the sale of an item it produces to another country in accordance with its laws and regulations;
(v) Information, preferably in writing, from a named company official that the company legally can and would sell an item it produces to a foreign country;
(vi) Evidence of actual shipments of the item to foreign countries (e.g., shipping documents, photographs, news reports);
(vii) An eyewitness report of such an item in operation in a foreign country, providing as much information as available, including where possible the make and model of the item and its observed operating characteristics;
(viii) Evidence of the presence of sales personnel or technical service personnel in a foreign country;
(ix) Evidence of production within a foreign country;
(x) Evidence of the item being exhibited at a trade fair in a foreign country, particularly for the purpose of inducing sales of the item to the foreign country;
(xi) A copy of the export control laws or regulations of the source country, showing that the item is not controlled; or
(xii) A catalog or brochure indicating the item is for sale in a specific country.
(2)
Foreign (non-U.S.) source:
(i) Names of foreign manufacturers of the item including, if possible, addresses and telephone numbers;
(ii) A report from a reputable source of information on commercial relationships that a foreign manufacturer is not linked financially or administratively with a U.S. company;
(iii) A list of the components in the U.S. item and foreign item indicating model numbers and their sources;
(iv) A schematic of the foreign item identifying its components and their sources;
(v) Evidence that the item is a direct product of foreign technology (e.g., a patent law suit lost by a U.S. producer, a foreign patent);
(vi) Evidence of indigenous technology, production facilities, and the capabilities at those facilities; or
(vii) Evidence that the parts and components of the item are of foreign origin or are exempt from U.S. licensing requirements by the parts and components provision § 732.4 of the EAR.
(3)
Sufficient quantity:
(i) Evidence that foreign sources have the item in serial production;
(ii) Evidence that the item or its product is used in civilian applications in foreign countries;
(iii) Evidence that a foreign country is marketing in the specific country an item of its indigenous manufacture;
(iv) Evidence of foreign inventories of the item;
(v) Evidence of excess capacity in a foreign country's production facility;
(vi) Evidence that foreign countries have not targeted the item or are not seeking to purchase it in the West;
(vii) An estimate by a knowledgeable source of the foreign country's needs; or
(viii) An authoritative analysis of the worldwide market (i.e., demand, production rate for the item for various manufacturers, plant capacities, installed tooling, monthly production rates, orders, sales and cumulative sales over 5-6 years).
(4)
Comparable quality:
(i) A sample of the foreign item;
(ii) Operation or maintenance manuals of the U.S. and foreign items;
(iii) Records or a statement from a user of the foreign item;
(iv) A comparative evaluation, preferably in writing, of the U.S. and foreign items by,
for example, a western producer or purchaser of the item, a recognized expert, a reputable trade publication, or independent laboratory;
(v) A comparative list identifying, by manufacturers and model numbers, the key performance components and the materials used in the item that qualitatively affect the performance of the U.S. and foreign items;
(vi) Evidence of the interchangeability of U.S. and foreign items;
(vii) Patent descriptions for the U.S. and foreign items;
(viii) Evidence that the U.S. and foreign items meet a published industry, national, or international standard;
(ix) A report or eyewitness account, by deposition or otherwise, of the foreign item's operation;
(x) Evidence concerning the foreign manufacturers' corporate reputation;
(xi) Comparison of the U.S. and foreign end item(s) made from a specific commodity, tool(s), device(s), or technical data; or
(xii) Evidence of the reputation of the foreign item including, if possible, information on maintenance, repair, performance, and other pertinent factors.
Supplement No. 2 to Part 768—Items Eligible for Expedited Licensing Procedures [Reserved]
Pt. 770

# PART 770—INTERPRETATIONS
Sec.
770.1
Introduction.
770.2
Item interpretations.
770.3
Interpretations related to exports of technology and software to destinations in Country Group D:1.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.
§ 770.1
Introduction.
In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part provides commodity, technology, and software interpretations. These interpretations clarify the scope of controls where such scope is not readily apparent from the Commerce Control List (CCL) (see supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR) and other provisions of the Export Administration Regulations.
§ 770.2
Item interpretations.
(a)
Interpretation 1: Anti-friction bearing or bearing systems and specially designed parts.
(1) Anti-friction bearings or bearing systems shipped as spares or replacements are classified under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 2A001 (ball, roller, or needle-roller bearings and parts). This applies to separate shipments of anti-friction bearings or bearing systems and anti-friction bearings or bearing systems shipped with machinery or equipment for which they are intended to be used as spares or replacement parts.
(2) An anti-friction bearing or bearing system physically incorporated in a segment of a machine or in a complete machine prior to shipment loses its identity as a bearing. In this scenario, the machine or segment of machinery containing the bearing is the item subject to export control requirements.
(3) An anti-friction bearing or bearing system not incorporated in a segment of a machine prior to shipment, but shipped as a component of a complete unassembled (knocked-down) machine, is considered a component of a machine. In this scenario, the complete machine is the item subject to export license requirements.
(b)
Interpretation 2: Classification of “parts” of machinery, equipment, or other items
—(1)
An assembled machine or unit of equipment is being exported.
In instances where one or more assembled machines or units of equipment are being exported, the individual component parts that are physically incorporated into the machine or equipment do not require a license. The license or general exception under which the complete machine or unit of equipment is exported will also cover its component parts, provided that the parts are normal and usual components of the machine or equipment being exported, or that the physical incorporation is not used as a device to evade the requirement for a license.
(2)
Parts are exported as spares, replacements, for resale, or for stock.
In instances where parts are exported as spares, replacements, for resale, or for stock, a license is required only if the appropriate entry for the part specifies that a license is required for the intended destination.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Interpretation 4: Telecommunications equipment and systems.
Control equipment for paging systems (broadcast radio or selectively signalled receiving systems) is defined as circuit
switching equipment in Category 5 of the CCL.
(e)
Interpretation 5: Numerical control systems
—(1)
Classification of “Numerical Control” Units.
“Numerical control” units for machine tools, regardless of their configurations or architectures, are controlled by their functional characteristics as described in ECCN 2B001.a. “Numerical control” units include computers with add-on “motion control boards”. A computer with add-on “motion control boards” for machine tools may be controlled under ECCN 2B001.a even when the computer alone without “motion control boards” is not subject to licensing requirements under Category 4 and the “motion control boards” are not controlled under ECCN 2B001.b.
(2)
Export documentation requirement.
(i) When preparing a license application for a numerical control system, the machine tool and the control unit are classified separately. If either the machine tool or the control unit requires a license, then the entire unit requires a license. If either a machine tool or a control unit is exported separately from the system, the exported component is classified on the license application without regard to the other parts of a possible system.
(ii) When preparing the Electronic Export Information (EEI) on the Automated Export System (AES), a system being shipped complete (i.e., machine and control unit), should be reported under the Schedule B number for each machine. When either a control unit or a machine is shipped separately, it should be reported under the Schedule B number appropriate for the individual item being exported.
(f)
Interpretation 6: “Parts,” “accessories,” and equipment exported as scrap.
“Parts,” “accessories,” or equipment that are being shipped as scrap should be described on the EEI filing to the AES in sufficient detail to be identified under the proper ECCN. When commodities declared as “parts,” “accessories,” or equipment are shipped in bulk, or are otherwise not packaged, packed, or sorted in accordance with normal trade practices, the Customs Officer may require evidence that the shipment is not scrap. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of sale, orders and correspondence indicating whether the commodities are scrap or are being exported for use as “parts,” “accessories,” or equipment.
(g)
Interpretation 7: Scrap arms, ammunition, and implements of war.
Arms, ammunition, and implements of war, as defined in the U.S. Munitions List, and are under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of State (22 CFR parts 120 through 130), except for the following, which are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce:
(1) Cartridge and shell cases that have been rendered useless beyond the possibility of restoration to their original identity by means of excessive heating, flame treatment, mangling, crushing, cutting, or by any other method are “scrap”.
(2) Cartridge and shell cases that have been sold by the armed services as “scrap”, whether or not they have been heated, flame-treated, mangled, crushed, cut, or reduced to scrap by any other method.
(3) Other commodities that may have been on the U.S. Munitions List are “scrap”, and therefore under the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce, if they have been rendered useless beyond the possibility of restoration to their original identity only by means of mangling, crushing, or cutting. When in doubt as to whether a commodity covered by the Munitions List has been rendered useless, exporters should consult the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, or the Exporter Counseling Division, Office of Exporter Services, Room 1099A, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230, before reporting a shipment as metal scrap.
(h)-(j) [Reserved]
(k)
Interpretation 11: Precursor chemicals.
The following chemicals are controlled by ECCN 1C350. The appropriate Chemical Abstract Service Registry (C.A.S.) number and synonyms (i.e., alternative names) are included to help you determine whether or not your chemicals are controlled by this entry.
(1) (C.A.S. #1341-49-7) Ammonium hydrogen bifluoride
Acid ammonium fluoride
Ammonium bifluoride
Ammonium difluoride
Ammonium hydrofluoride
Ammonium hydrogen bifluoride
Ammonium hydrogen difluoride
Ammonium monohydrogen difluoride
(2) (C.A.S. #7784-34-1) Arsenic trichloride
Arsenic (III) chloride
Arsenous chloride
Fuming liquid arsenic
Trichloroarsine
(3) (C.A.S. #76-93-7) Benzilic acid
.alpha.,.alpha.-Diphenyl-.alpha.-hydroxyacetic acid
Diphenylglycolic acid
.alpha.,.alpha.-Diphenylglycolic acid
Diphenylhydroxyacetic acid
.alpha.-Hydroxy-2,2-diphenylacetic acid
2-Hydroxy-2,2-diphenylacetic acid
.alpha.-Hydroxy-.alpha.-phenylbenzeneacetic acid
Hydroxydiphenylacetic acid
(4) (C.A.S. #107-07-3) 2-Chloroethanol
2-Chloro-1-ethanol
Chloroethanol
2-Chloroethyl alcohol
Ethene chlorohydrin
Ethylchlorohydrin
Ethylene chlorhydrin
Ethylene chlorohydrin
Glycol chlorohydrin
Glycol monochlorohydrin
2-Hydroxyethyl chloride
(5) (C.A.S. #78-38-6) Diethyl ethylphosphonate Ethylphosphonic acid diethyl ester
(6) (C.A.S. #15715-41-0) Diethyl methylphosphonite
Diethoxymethylphosphine
Diethyl methanephosphonite
0,0-Diethyl methylphosphonite
Methyldiethoxyphosphine
Methylphosphonous acid diethyl ester
(7) (C.A.S. #2404-03-7) Diethyl-N, N-dimethylphosphoro-amidate
N,N-Dimethyl-O,O′-diethyl phosphoramidate
Diethyl dimethylphosphoramidate
Dimethylphosphoramidic acid diethyl ester
(8) (C.A.S. #762-04-9) Diethyl phosphite
Diethoxyphosphine oxide
Diethyl acid phosphite
Diethyl hydrogen phosphite
Diethyo phosphonate
Hydrogen diethyl phosphite
(9) (C.A.S. #100-37-8) N, N-Diethylethanolamine
N,N-Diethyl-2-aminoethanol
Diethyl (2-hydroxyethyl) amine
N,N-Diethyl-N-(.beta.-hydroxyethyl) amine
N,N-Diethyl-2-hydroxyethylamine
Diethylaminoethanol
2-(Diethylamino) ethanol
2-(Diethylamino)ethyl alcohol
N,N-Diethylmonoethanolamine
(2-Hydroxyethyl) diethylamine
2-Hydroxytriethylamine
(10) (C.A.S. #5842-07-9) N,N-Diisopropyl-.beta.-aminoethane thiol
2-(Diisopropylamino) ethanethiol
Diisopropylaminoethanethiol
.beta.-Diisopropylaminoethanethiol
2-(bis(1-Methylethyl)amino) ethanethiol
(11) (C.A.S. #4261-68-1) N, N-Diisopropyl-.2-aminoethyl chloride hydrochloride
(12) (C.A.S. #96-80-0) N,N-Diisopropyl-.beta.-aminoethanol
N,N-Diisopropyl-2-aminoethanol
2-(Diisopropylamino) ethanol
(N,N-Diisopropylamino) ethanol
2-(Diisopropylamino) ethyl alcohol
N,N-Diisopropylethanolamine
(13) (C.A.S. #96-79-7) N,N-Diisopropyl-.beta.-aminoethyl chloride
2-Chloro-N,N-diisopropylethanamine
1-Chloro-N,N-diisopropylaminoethane
2-Chloro-N,N-diisopropylethylamine
N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-(1-methylethyl)-2-propanamine
N-(2-Chloroethyl) diisopropylamine
N,N-Diisopropyl-2-chloroethylamine
1-(Diisopropylamino)-2-cholorethane
2-(Diisopropylamino)ethyl chloride
Diisopropylaminoethyl chloride
.beta.-Diisopropylaminoethyl chloride
(14) (C.A.S. #108-18-9) Diisopropylamine
N,N-Diisopropylamine
N-(1-Methylethyl)-2-propanamine
(15) (C.A.S. #6163-75-3) Dimethyl ethylphosphonate
Dimethyl ethanephosphonate
Ethylphosphonic acid dimethyl ester
(16) (C.A.S. #756-79-6) Dimethyl methylphosphonate
Dimethoxymethyl phosphine oxide
Dimethyl methanephosphonate
Methanephosphonic acid dimethyl ester
Methylphosphonic acid dimethyl ester
(17) (C.A.S. #868-85-9) Dimethyl phosphite
Dimethoxyphosphine oxide
Dimethyl acid phosphite
Dimethyl hydrogen phosphite
Dimethyl phosphonate
Hydrogen dimethyl phosphite
Methyl phosphate
(18) (C.A.S. #124-40-3) Dimethylamine
N-Methyl methanamine
(19) (C.A.S. #506-59-2) Dimethylamine hydrochloride
Dimethylammonium chloride
N-Methyl methanamine hydrochloride
(20) [Reserved]
(21) (C.A.S. #1498-40-4) Ethylphosphonous dichloride
Dichloroethylphosphine
Ethyl phosphonous dichloride
Ethyldichlorophosphine
(22) (C.A.S. #430-78-4) Ethylphosphonus difluoride
Ethyldifluorophosphine
(23) (C.A.S. #1066-50-8) Ethylphosphonyl dichloride
Dichloroethylphosphine oxide
Ethanephosphonyl chloride
Ethylphosphinic dichloride
Ethylphosphonic acid dichloride
Ethylphosphonic dichloride
(24) [Reserved]
(25) (C.A.S. #7664-39-3) Hydrogen fluoride
Anhydrous hydrofluoric acid
Fluorhydric acid
Fluorine monohydride
Hydrofluoric acid gas
(26) (C.A.S. #3554-74-3) 3-Hydroxyl-1-methylpiperidine
3-Hydroxy-N-methylpiperidine
1-Methyl-3-hydroxypiperidine
N-Methyl-3-hydroxypiperidine
1-Methyl-3-piperidinol
N-Methyl-3-piperidinol
(27) (C.A.S. #76-89-1) Methyl benzilate
Benzilic acid methyl ester
.alpha.-Hydroxy-.alpha.-phenylbenzeneacetic acid methyl ester
Methyl .alpha.-phenylmandelate
Methyl diphenylglycolate
(28)-(31) [Reserved]
(32) (C.A.S. #10025-87-3) Phosphorus oxychloride
Phosphonyl trichloride
Phosphoric chloride
Phosphoric trichloride
Phosphoroxychloride
Phosphoroxytrichloride
Phosphorus chloride oxide
Phosphorus monoxide trichloride
Phosphorus oxide trichloride
Phosphorus oxytrichloride
Phosphorus trichloride oxide
Phosphoryl trichloride
Trichlorophosphine oxide
Trichlorophosphorus oxide
(33) (C.A.S. #10026-13-8) Phosphorus pentachloride
Pentachlorophosphorane
Pentachlorophosphorus
Phosphoric chloride
Phosphorus(V) chloride
Phosphorus perchloride
(34) (C.A.S. #1314-80-3) Phosphorus pentasulfide
Diphosphorus pentasulfide
Phosphoric sulfide
Phosphorus persulfide
Phosphorus sulfide
(35) (C.A.S. #7719-12-2) Phosphorus trichloride
Phosphorus chloride
Trichlorophosphine
(36) C.A.S. #75-97-8) Pinacolone
tert-Butyl methyl ketone
2,2-Dimethyl-3-butanone
3,3-Dimethyl-2-butanone
2,2-Dimethylbutanone
3,3-Dimethylbutanone
1,1-Dimethylethyl methyl ketone
Methyl tert-butyl ketone
Pinacolin
Pinacoline
1,1,1-Trimethylacetone
(37) (C.A.S. #464-07-3) Pinacolyl alcohol
tert-Butyl methyl carbinol
2,2-Dimethyl-3-butanol
3,3-Dimethyl-2-butanol
1-Methyl-2,2-dimethylpropanol
(38) (C.A.S. #151-50-8) Potassium cyanide
(39) (C.A.S. #7789-23-3) Potassium fluoride
Potassium monofluoride
(40) (C.A.S. #7789-29-9) Potassium hydrogen fluoride
Hydrogen potassium difluoride
Hydrogen potassium fluoride
Potassium acid fluoride
Potassium bifluoride
Potassium hydrogen difluoride
Potassium monohydrogen difluoride
(41) (C.A.S. #1619-34-7) 3-Quinuclidinol
1-Azabicyclo(2.2.2)octan-3-ol
3-Hydroxyquinuclidine
(42) (C.A.S. #3731-38-2) 3-Quinuclidinone
1-Azabicyclo(2.2.2)octan-3-one
3-Oxyquinuclidine
Quinuclidone
(43) (C.A.S.) #1333-83-1) Sodium bifluoride
Sodium hydrogen difluoride
Sodium hydrogen fluoride
(44) (C.A.S. #143-33-9) Sodium cyanide
(45) (C.A.S. #7681-49-4) Sodium fluoride
Sodium monofluoride
(46) (C.A.S. #1313-82-2) Sodium sulfide
Disodium monosulfide
Disodium sulfide
Sodium monosulfide
Sodium sulfide
(47) (C.A.S. #10025-67-9) Sulfur Monochloride
(48) (C.A.S. #10545-99-0) Sulfur dicholoride
(49) (C.A.S. #111-48-8) Thiodiglycol
Bis(2-hydroxyethyl) sulfide
Bis(2-hydroxyethyl) thioether
Di(2-hydroxyethyl) sulfide
Diethanol sulfide
2,2′-Dithiobis-(ethanol)
3-Thiapentane-1,5-diol
2,2′-Thiobisethanol
2,2′-Thiodiethanol
Thiodiethylene glycol
2,2′-Thiodiglycol
(50) C.A.S. #7719-09-7) Thionyl chloride
Sulfinyl chloride
Sulfinyl dichloride
Sulfur chloride oxide
Sulfur oxychloride
Sulfurous dichloride
Sulfurous oxychloride
Thionyl dichloride
(51) (C.A.S. #102-71-6) Triethanolamine
Alkanolamine 244
Nitrilotriethanol
2,2′,2″-Nitrilotriethanol
2,2′,2″-Nitrilotris(ethanol)
TEA
TEA (amino alcohol)
Tri (2-hydroxyethyl) amine
Triethanolamin
Tris (.beta.-hydroxyethyl) amine
Tris (2-hydroxyethyl) amine
Trolamine
(52) (C.A.S. #637-39-8) Triethanolamine hydrochloride
(53) (C.A.S. #122-52-1) Triethyl phosphite
Phosphorous acid triethyl ester
Triethoxyphosphine
Tris(ethoxy)phosphine
(54) (C.A.S. #121-45-9) Trimethyl phosphite
Phosphorus acid trimethyl ester
Trimethoxyphosphine
(l)
Interpretation 12: Computers.
(1) Digital computers or computer systems classified under ECCN 4A003.b or .c, that qualify for “No License Required” (NLR) must be evaluated on the basis of Adjusted Peak Performance (APP) alone, to the exclusion of all other technical parameters. Digital computers or computer systems classified under ECCN 4A003.b or .c that qualify for License Exception APP must be evaluated on the basis of APP, to the exclusion of all other technical parameters. Assemblies performing analog-to-digital conversions are evaluated under Category 3—Electronics, ECCN 3A002.h.
(2) Related equipment classified under ECCN 4A003.g may be exported or reexported under License Exceptions GBS or CIV. When related equipment is exported or reexported as part of a computer system, NLR or License Exception APP is available for the computer system and the related equipment, as appropriate.
(m)
Interpretation 13: Encryption commodities and software controlled for EI reasons.
Encryption commodities and software controlled for EI reasons under ECCNs 5A002, 5A004 and 5D002 may be pre-loaded on a laptop, handheld device or other computer or equipment and exported under the tools of trade provision of License Exception TMP or the personal use exemption under License Exception BAG, subject to the terms and conditions of such License Exceptions. Neither License Exception TMP nor License Exception BAG contains a reporting requirement. Like other “information security” “software,” components, “electronic assemblies” or modules, the control status of encryption commodities and software is determined in Category 5—Part 2 even if they are bundled, commingled or incorporated in a computer or other equipment. However, commodities and software specially designed for medical end use that incorporate an item in Category
5—Part 2 are not controlled in Category 5—Part 2. See paragraph (a) of supplement no. 3 to part 774 (Statements of Understanding) of the EAR.
(n)
Interpretation 14: Unfinished “600 series” commodities.
Forgings, castings, and other unfinished products, such as extrusions and machined bodies, that have reached a stage in manufacturing where they are clearly identifiable by mechanical properties, material composition, geometry, or function as commodities controlled by any Product Group A (“End Items,” “Equipment,” “Accessories,” “Attachments,” “Parts,” “Components” and “Systems”) “600 series” ECCN are controlled in that “600 series” ECCN.
(o)
Interpretation 15: Certain integrated circuits acquired, tested, or otherwise used by or for the United States Government
—(1)
Classification of the integrated circuit (IC).
Integrated circuits (ICs), including packaged “electronic assemblies” of ICs described by this section, that are manufactured using existing commercial fabrication process technologies and which are acquired, tested, or otherwise used by, for, or under contract with the United States Government (USG), are not considered to be radiation hardened (
e.g.,
designed to withstand a specified radiation dose or upset) or temperature rated (
e.g.,
rated to operate at prescribed temperatures) as may otherwise be specified under an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR, provided all of the following apply:
(i) During “development”, the IC is not designed, rated, or certified (except by or for the USG) to meet the radiation or temperature specifications of any ECCN; and
(ii) All commercial testing (including by the manufacturer during fabrication, sort, packaging or assembly) regarding radiation or temperature is limited to standard commercial tools and techniques, or else by means funded or furnished by the USG for their use in the commercial setting for these specified ICs.
(2)
Activities that do not change the classification of “software” or “technology” for the commercial fabrication of ICs.
The “development”, “production,” or subsequent use of the ICs described by this section does not change the classification of any underlying standard commercial process “software” or “technology” used to manufacture or test these ICs, provided all of the following apply:
(i) Any utilized existing commercial “software” or “technology” specified under ECCNs 3D991, 3D992, 3D993, 3E001, 3E991, 3E992, 3E993, 9D515.d, 9D515.e, 9E515.d or 9E515.e does not meet the “required” standard (as defined in part 772 of the EAR) of any other ECCN on the CCL; and

# Note 1 to paragraph (
o

# )(2)(
i

# ):
The use of existing commercial “software” or “technology” by or for the USG for the purposes described in paragraph (o)(1) of this section does not, in and of itself, establish the “required” standard to meet the specifications of any ECCN on the CCL.
(ii) The functional capability of the hardware, “software,” or “technology” existing within the standard commercial fabrication process has not been modified (
e.g.,
by addition of special process steps or unique interpretation of design data), except as may be required or requested by the USG (
e.g.,
as a stipulation of contract performance) where all of the following apply:
(A) The modifications do not change the ECCN of any item subject to the EAR (except to a less restrictive classification,
e.g.,
from an ECCN on the CCL to EAR99); and
(B) The modifications are limited to the manufacture or testing of ICs by or for the USG as specified in paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
(3)
Examples.
Scenarios addressed by this section include the following:
(i) If a commercially fabricated IC specified under ECCN 3A991 is tested by the USG (or by a person or entity in a contractual relationship with the USG) and meets the radiation-hardened parameters in ECCN 3A001.a.1, the classification of the IC does not change from ECCN 3A991 and the classifications of the underlying standard process “technology”, “equipment” and “software” do not change from their original ECCNs.
(ii) If a standard commercial process for fabricating ICs includes certain “technology” specified under ECCN 3E001 (
e.g.,
for ICs specified under ECCN 3A001.a.1), or ECCN 9E515 (
e.g.,
for discrete electronic components specified under ECCNs 9A515.d or .e) and those process “technologies” are used to manufacture ICs and discrete electronic components for the U.S. Government, only the portion of the “technology” that is “required” meets the specifications under ECCN 3E001 or 9E515. Moreover, the use of these standard commercial processes does not presumptively result in the control of the resulting U.S. Government ICs under ECCN paragraphs 3A001.a.1 or 9A515.d or .e; instead, the ECCNs of the U.S. Government ICs subject to the EAR would be determined according to paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
(iii) If a standard commercial IC fabrication process at a particular foundry is comprised of tools specified under ECCNs 3B001 or 3B991 or as EAR99, and where the “technology” is limited to “technology” specified under ECCN 3E991 or as EAR99, and that foundry (which typically produces ICs specified under ECCN 3A991 or as EAR99) were to deviate from its standard fabrication process (
e.g.,
by adding special process steps or design features) to produce a family of ICs designed to meet or exceed the radiation hardened parameters in ECCN paragraphs 3A001.a.1 or 9A515.d. or .e and intended for sale to U.S. and non-U.S. commercial and government customers, then the ECCN of the additional process “technology” that is “required” for producing those specific radiation hardened ICs would need to be separately evaluated and determined (
e.g.,
under ECCNs 3E001 and 9E515, as applicable).
[61 FR 12920, Mar. 25, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 770.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 770.3
Interpretations related to exports of technology and software to destinations in Country Group D:1.
(a)
Introduction.
This section is intended to provide you additional guidance on how to determine whether your technology or software would be eligible for a License Exception, may be exported under NLR, or require a license, for export to Country Group D:1.
(b)
Scope of licenses.
The export of technology and software under a license is authorized only to the extent specifically indicated on the face of the license. The only technology and software related to equipment exports that may be exported without a license is technology described in §§ 734.7 through 734.11 of the EAR; operating technology and software described in § 740.13(a) of the EAR; sales technology described in § 740.13(b) of the EAR; and software updates described in § 740.13(c) of the EAR.
(c)
Commingled technology and software.
(1) U.S.-origin technology does not lose its U.S.-origin when it is redrawn, used, consulted, or otherwise commingled abroad in any respect with other technology of any other origin. Therefore, any subsequent or similar technical data prepared or engineered abroad for the design, construction, operation, or maintenance of any plant or equipment, or part thereof, which is based on or utilizes any U.S.-origin technology, is subject to the EAR in the same manner as the original U.S.-origin technology, including license requirements, unless the commingled technology is not subject to the EAR by reason of the
de minimis
exclusions described in § 734.4 of the EAR.
(2) U.S.-origin software that is incorporated into or commingled with foreign-origin software does not lose its U.S.-origin. Such commingled software is subject to the EAR is the same manner as the original U.S.-origin software, including license requirements, unless the commingled software is not subject to the EAR by reason of the
de minimis
exclusions described in § 734.4 of the EAR.
(d)
Certain License Exception.
The following questions and answers are intended to further clarify the scope of technology and software eligible for a License Exception.
(1)(i)
Question 1.
(A) Our engineers, in installing or repairing equipment, use techniques (experience as well as proprietary knowledge of the internal componentry or specifications of the equipment) that exceed what is provided in the standard manuals or instructions (including training) given to the customer. In some cases, it is also
a condition of the license that such information provided to the customer be constrained to the minimum necessary for normal installation, maintenance and operation situations.
(B) Can we send an engineer (with knowledge and experience) to the customer site to perform the installation or repair, under the provisions of License Exception TSU for operation technology and software described in § 740.13(a) of the EAR, if it is understood that he is restricted by our normal business practices to performing the work without imparting the knowledge or technology to the customer personnel?
(ii)
Answer 1.
Export of technology includes release of U.S.-origin data in a foreign country as defined in § 734.15 of the EAR. So long as the circumstances described here would not exceed that permitted under the License Exception TSU for operation technology and software, as described in § 740.13(a) of the EAR, this is not a “release” of technology and a license would not be required.
(2)(i)
Question 2.
We plan, according to our normal business practices, to train customer engineers to maintain equipment that we have exported under a license, License Exception, or NLR. The training is contractual in nature, provided for a fee, and is scheduled to take place in part in the customer's facility and in part in the U.S. Can we now proceed with this training at both locations under a License Exception?
(ii)
Answer 2.
(A) Provided that this is your normal training, and involves technology contained in your manuals and standard instructions for the exported equipment, and meets the other requirements of License Exception TSU for operation technology and software described in § 740.13(a), the training may be provided within the limits of those provisions of License Exception TSU. The location of the training is not significant, as the export occurs at the time and place of the actual transfer or imparting of the technology to the customer's engineers.
(B) Any training beyond that covered under the provisions of License Exception TSU for operation technology and software described in § 740.13(a), but specifically represented in your license application as required for this customer installation, and in fact authorized on the face of the license or a separate technology license, may not be undertaken while the license is suspended or revoked.
[61 FR 12920, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 64286, Dec. 4, 1996; 62 FR 25470, May 9, 1997; 65 FR 14860, Mar. 20, 2000; 86 FR 54813, Oct. 5, 2021]
Pt. 772

# PART 772—DEFINITIONS OF TERMS

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
; 50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
; E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.

# Source:
61 FR 12925, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 772.1
Definitions of terms as used in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
The following are definitions of terms as used in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. Those terms in quotation marks refer to terms used on the Commerce Control List (CCL) (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR). Parenthetical references following the terms in quotation marks (i.e., (Cat 5)) refer to the CCL category in which that term is found. If a term is used in only one Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the CCL, then that term will
not
appear in this part, but will be defined in the Related Definitions paragraph in the List of Items Controlled Section of that ECCN.
600 series.
ECCNs in the “xY6zz” format on the Commerce Control List (CCL) that control items on the CCL that were previously controlled on the U.S. Munitions List or that are covered by the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML). The “6” indicates the entry is a munitions entry on the CCL. The “x” represents the CCL category and “Y” the CCL product group. The “600 series” constitutes the munitions ECCNs within the larger CCL.
600 Series Major Defense Equipment
or
MDE.
Any item listed in ECCN 9A610.a, 9A619.a, 9A619.b or 9A619.c, having a nonrecurring research and development cost of more than $50,000,000 or a total
production cost of more than $200,000,000.

# Note to “600 Series Major Defense Equipment”:
For the most current list of MDE, see Appendix 1, (Nonrecurring Cost Recoupment Charges for Major Defense Equipment) to DoD 5105.38-M, “Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM),” dated 04/30/2012, available online at
http://www.dsca.osd.mil/samm/ESAMM/Appendix01.htm.
Access information.
For purposes of § 734.19(a), information that allows access to encrypted technology or encrypted software in an unencrypted form. Examples include decryption keys, network access codes, and passwords.
Accessories.
These are associated items for any “component,” “end item,” or “system,” and which are not necessary for their operation, but which enhance their usefulness or effectiveness. For example, for a riding lawnmower, “accessories” and “attachments” will include the bag to capture the cut grass, and a canopy to protect the operator from the sun and rain. For purposes of this definition, “accessories” and “attachments” are the same.
Accuracy.
(Cat 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8)—“Accuracy” is usually measured in terms of inaccuracy. It is defined as the maximum deviation, positive or negative, of an indicated value from an accepted standard or true value.
Active flight control systems.
(Cat 7)—Function to prevent undesirable “aircraft” and “missile” motions or structural loads by autonomously processing outputs from multiple sensors and then providing necessary preventive commands to effect automatic control.
Active pixel.
(Cat 6)—A minimum (single) element of the solid state array that has a photoelectric transfer function when exposed to light (electromagnetic) radiation.
Adaptive control.
(Cat 2)—A control system that adjusts the response from conditions detected during the operation (Ref. ISO 2806-1980).
Adjusted Peak Performance (APP).
(Cat 4) An adjusted peak rate at which “digital computers” perform 64-bit or larger floating point additions and multiplications. The formula to calculate APP is contained in a technical note at the end of Category 4 of the Commerce Control List.
Advanced-Node Integrated Circuits (Advanced-Node IC).
For parts 734 and 744 of the EAR, “advanced-node integrated circuits” include integrated circuits that meet any of the following criteria:
(1) Logic integrated circuits using a non-planar transistor architecture or with a “production” 'technology node' of 16/14 nanometers or less;
(2) NOT AND (NAND) memory integrated circuits with 128 layers or more; or
(3) Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) integrated circuits having:
(i) A memory cell area of less than 0.0019 µm
2
; or
(ii) A memory density greater than 0.288 gigabits per square millimeter.

# Note 1 to definition of “Advanced-Node Integrated Circuits”:
For the purposes of paragraph (1) of this definition, the term technology node refers to the Logic Industry “Node Range” figure described in the International Roadmap for Devices and Systems, 2016 edition (“More Moore” White Paper), available at: https://irds.ieee.org/images/files/pdf/2016_MM.pdf.

# Note 2 to definition of “Advanced-Node Integrated Circuits”:
For the purposes of paragraph (3) of this definition, the term memory density refers to the capacity of the package or stack comprising the DRAM integrated circuit measured in gigabytes divided by the footprint of the package or stack measured in square millimeters. In the case where a stack is contained in a package, use the area of the package. Cell area is defined as Wordline*Bitline (which takes into consideration both transistor and capacitor dimensions).
Advisory Committee on Export Policy (ACEP).
The ACEP voting members include the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, and Assistant Secretary-level representatives from the Departments of State, Defense, Justice (for encryption exports), Energy, and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. The appropriate representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of the Nonproliferation Center of the Central Intelligence Agency are non-voting members. The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration is the Chair. Appropriate acting Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretary or equivalent strength of any agency or department may serve in
lieu of the Assistant Secretary of the concerned agency or department. Such representatives, regardless of rank, will speak and vote on behalf of their agencies or departments. The ACEP may invite Assistant Secretary-level representatives of other Government agencies or departments (other than those identified above) to participate in the activities of the ACEP when matters of interest to such agencies or departments are under consideration. Decisions are made by majority vote.
AES.
See “Automated Export System.”
Agricultural commodities.
Agricultural commodities include food (including processed food); feed; fish; shellfish and fish products; beer, wine and spirits; livestock; fiber including cotton, wool and other fibers; tobacco and tobacco products; wood and wood products; seeds; fertilizer and organic fertilizer; reproductive materials such as fertilized eggs, embryos and semen. For the purposes of the EAR, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).

# Note 1:
This definition of agricultural commodities includes fertilizer and organic fertilizer, as listed in section 775 of the 2001 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (Act) (Public Law 106-387) and commodities listed in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602) as incorporated in section 902 of the Act, as well as commodities determined by the Department of Agriculture to fall within the scope of section 102 of the 1978 Agricultural Trade Act.

# Note 2:
For purposes of License Exception AGR (see § 740.18 of the EAR), agricultural commodities also include vitamins, minerals, food additives and dietary supplements, and bottled water. These items do not fall within the scope of section 102 of the 1978 Agricultural Trade Act, but are treated as agricultural commodities for the purposes of License Exception AGR.

# Note 3:
For purposes of License Exception AGR and export license applications to Iran under the licensing procedures set forth in the appropriate regulations promulgated and administered by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, agricultural commodities only include those that are classified as EAR99.
Aircraft.
(Cat 1, 6, 7, and 9)—A fixed wing, swivelwing, rotary wing (helicopter), tilt rotor or tilt-wing airborne vehicle. (See also “civil aircraft”.)
Airline.
Any person engaged primarily in the transport of persons or property by aircraft for compensation or hire, pursuant to authorization by the U.S. Government or a foreign government.
Airship.
(Cat 2 and 9) A power-driven airborne vehicle that is kept buoyant by a body of gas (usually helium, formerly hydrogen) which is lighter than air.
All compensations available.
(Cat 2) means after all feasible measures available to the manufacturer to minimize all systematic positioning errors for the particular machine-tool model or measuring errors for the particular coordinate measuring machine are considered.
Allocated by the ITU.
(Cat 3 and Cat 5 part 1)—The allocation of frequency bands according to the current edition of the ITU Radio Regulations for primary, permitted and secondary services.

# N.B.
Additional and alternative allocations are not included.
Angle random walk.
(Cat 7) The angular error buildup with time that is due to white noise in angular rate. (IEEE STD 528-2001)
Angular position deviation.
(Cat 2)—The maximum difference between angular position and the actual, very accurately measured angular position after the workpiece mount of the table has been turned out of its initial position. (Reference: VDI/VDE 2617, Draft: “Rotary tables on coordinate measuring machines”).
“APP”
See “Adjusted Peak Performance.” This term may also appear without quotation marks.
Applicant.
The person who applies for an export or reexport license, and who has the authority of a principal party in interest to determine and control the export or reexport of items. See § 748.4 of the EAR and definition for “exporter” in this part of the EAR.
Asymmetric algorithm.
(Cat 5) means a cryptographic algorithm using different, mathematically-related keys for encryption and decryption.

# Technical Note:
A common use of “asymmetric algorithms” is key management.
Attachments.
These are associated items for any “component,” “end item,” or “system,” and which are not necessary for their operation, but which enhance their usefulness or effectiveness. For example, for a riding lawnmower, “accessories” and “attachments” will include the bag to capture the cut grass, and a canopy to protect the operator from the sun and rain. For purposes of this definition, “attachments” and “accessories” are the same.
Australia Group.
The countries participating in the Australia Group have agreed to adopt harmonized controls on certain dual-use chemicals (i.e., precursor chemicals), biological agents, related manufacturing facilities and equipment, and related technology in order to ensure that exports of these items do not contribute to the proliferation of chemical or biological weapons. Countries participating in the Australia Group as of November 1, 2013, include: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea (South), Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States. See also § 742.2 of the EAR.
Australian airline.
Any citizen of Australia who is authorized by the Australian Government to engage in business as an airline. For purposes of this definition, an Australian citizen is:
(1) A natural person who is a citizen of Australia; or
(2) A partnership of which each member is such an individual; or
(3) An Australian firm incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of Australia or any Australian state or territory, having a total foreign stock interest not greater than 40 percent, and having the Chairman or Acting Chairman and at least two-thirds of the Directors thereof Australian citizens.
“
Authentication
”. (Cat 5P2) Verifying the identity of a user, process or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in an information system. This includes verifying the origin or content of a message or other information, and all aspects of access control where there is no encryption of files or text except as directly related to the protection of passwords, Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) or similar data to prevent unauthorized access.
Automated Export System (AES).
AES is a nationwide system operational at all ports and for all methods of transportation through which export shipment data required by multiple agencies is filed electronically to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, using the efficiencies of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). AES allows the export information to be collected electronically and edited immediately. For more information about AES, visit the Bureau of Census Web site at:
http://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/aes/index.html
or see 15 CFR part 30 the Foreign Trade Regulations
Average Output Power.
(Cat 6) The average output power is the total “laser” output energy, in joules, divided by the period over which a series of consecutive pulses is emitted, in seconds. For a series of uniformly spaced pulses it is equal to the total “laser” output energy in a single pulse, in joules, multiplied by the pulse frequency of the “laser,” in Hertz.
Bank.
Means any of the following:
(a) Bank, savings association, credit union, bank holding company, bank or savings association service corporation, Edge Act corporation, Agreement corporation, or any insured depository institution, which is organized under the laws of the United States or any State and regulated or supervised by a Federal banking agency or a State bank supervisor; or
(b) A company organized under the laws of a foreign country and regulated or supervised by a foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authority which
engages in the business of banking, including without limitation, foreign commercial banks, foreign merchant banks and other foreign institutions that engage in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the countries where such foreign institutions are organized or operating; or
(c) An entity engaged in the business of providing clearing or settlement services, that is, or whose members are, regulated or supervised by a Federal banking agency, a State bank supervisor, or a foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authority; or
(d) A branch or affiliate of any of the entities listed in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this definition, regulated or supervised by a Federal banking agency, a State bank supervisor or a foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authority; or
(e) An affiliate of any of the entities listed in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this definition, engaged solely in the business of providing data processing services to a bank or financial institution, or a branch of such an affiliate.
Basic gate propagation delay time.
(Cat 3) The propagation delay time value corresponding to the basic gate used in a “monolithic integrated circuit.” For a ‘family’ of “monolithic integrated circuits”, this may be specified either as the propagation delay time per typical gate within the given ‘family’ or as the typical propagation delay time per gate within the given ‘family’.

# Technical Notes:
1. “Basic gate propagation delay time” is not to be confused with the input/output delay time of a complex “monolithic integrated circuit.”
2. ‘Family’ consists of all integrated circuits to which all of the following are applied as their manufacturing methodology and specifications except their respective functions:
a. The common hardware and software architecture;
b. The common design and process technology;
and
c. The common basic characteristics.
Basic Scientific Research.
(GTN)—Experimental or theoretical work undertaken principally to acquire new knowledge of the fundamental principles of phenomena or observable facts, not primarily directed towards a specific practical aim or objective.
Bias.
(accelerometer) (Cat 7)—The average over a specified time of accelerometer output measured at specified operating conditions, that has no correlation with input acceleration or rotation. “Bias” is expressed in g or in meters per second
2
(g or m/s
2
) (IEEE Std 528-2001) (Micro g equals 1×10
−6
g).
“Bias”. (gyro) (Cat 7) The average over a specified time of gyro output measured at specified operating conditions that has no correlation with input rotation or acceleration. “Bias” is typically expressed in degrees per hour (deg/hr). (IEEE Std 528-2001).
Bill of Lading.
The contract of carriage and receipt for items, issued by the carrier. It includes an air waybill, but does not include an inland bill of lading or a domestic air waybill covering movement to port only.
Build-to-Print technology.
(1) This is “production” “technology” that is sufficient for an inherently capable end user to produce or repair a commodity from engineering drawings without any of the following:
(i) Revealing “development” “technology,” such as design methodology, engineering analysis, detailed process or manufacturing know-how;
(ii) Revealing the production engineering or process improvement aspect of the “technology;” or
(iii) Requiring assistance from the provider of the technology to produce or repair the commodity.
(2) Acceptance, test, or inspection criteria pertaining to the commodity at issue is included within the scope of “build-to-print technology” only if it is necessary to verify that the commodity is acceptable.
Business Unit.
As applied to encryption items, means a unit of a business which, whether or not separately incorporated, has:
(a) A distinct organizational structure which does not overlap with other business units of the same business;
(b) A distinct set of accounts; and
(c) Separate facilities for purchase, sale, delivery, and production of goods and services.
CCL.
See Commerce Control List.
CCL Group.
The Commerce Control List (CCL) is divided into 10 categories. Each category is subdivided into five groups, designated by the letters A
through E: (A) Equipment, assemblies and components; (B) Test, inspection and production equipment; (C) Materials; (D) Software; and (E) Technology. See § 738.2(b) of the EAR.
Camming.
(axial displacement) (Cat 2)—Axial displacement in one revolution of the main spindle measured in a plane perpendicular to the spindle faceplate, at a point next to the circumference of the spindle faceplate (Ref.: ISO 230 Part 1-1986, paragraph 5.63).
Canadian airline.
Any citizen of Canada who is authorized by the Canadian Government to engage in business as an airline. For purposes of this definition, a Canadian citizen is:
(1) A natural person who is a citizen of Canada; or
(2) A partnership of which each member is such an individual; or
(3) A Canadian firm incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory, having a total foreign stock interest not greater than 40 percent, and having the Chairman or Acting Chairman and at least two-thirds of the Directors thereof Canadian citizens.
Capable of.
(MTCR context)—See “usable in”.
CARICOM (Caribbean Community).
For purposes of §§ 740.3 and 740.14 of the EAR, the term CARICOM is defined as follows: An intergovernmental organization that consists of the following (1) member states Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Lucia, Suriname, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago; (2) associate members Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos; and (3) any other state or associate member that has acceded to membership in accordance with Article 3 or Article 231 of the Treaty of Chaguaramas.

# Note to definition of CARICOM:
Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, and Turks and Caicos are treated as the United Kingdom under all other EAR provisions that govern licensing requirements and license exceptions.
Category.
The Commerce Control List (CCL) is divided into ten categories: (0) Nuclear Materials, Facilities and Equipment, and Miscellaneous; (1) Materials, Chemicals, “Microorganisms”, and Toxins; (2) Materials Processing; (3) Electronics Design, Development and Production; (4) Computers; (5) Telecommunications and Information Security; (6) Sensors; (7) Navigation and Avionics; (8) Marine; (9) Propulsion Systems, Space Vehicles, and Related Equipment. See § 738.2(a) of the EAR.
Chemical laser.
(Cat 6)—A “laser” in which the excited species is produced by the output energy from a chemical reaction.
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC).
Means “The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction”, opened for signature on January 13, 1993.
Circular Error Probable.
(“CEP”) (Cat 7) In a circular normal distribution, the radius of the circle containing 50% of the individual measurements being made, or the radius of the circle within which there is a 50% probability of being located.
Circulation-controlled, anti-torque or circulation-controlled direction control systems
(Cat 7)—Control systems using air blown over aerodynamic surfaces to increase or control the forces generated by the surfaces.
Civil aircraft.
(Cat 1, 3, 4, 7 and 9) Those “aircraft” listed by designation in published airworthiness certification lists by civil aviation authorities of one or more Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States to fly commercial civil internal and external routes or for legitimate civil, private or business use. (see also “aircraft”)
COCOM (Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls).
A multilateral organization that cooperated in restricting strategic exports to controlled countries. COCOM was officially disbanded on March 31, 1994. COCOM members included: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States.
Commerce Control List (CCL).
A list of items under the export control jurisdiction of the Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce. Note that certain additional items described in part 732 of the EAR are also subject to the EAR. The CCL is found in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR.
Commodity.
Any article, material, or supply except technology and software.
Communications Channel Controller.
(Cat 4)—The physical interface which controls the flow of synchronous or asynchronous digital information. It is an assembly that can be integrated into computer or telecommunications equipment to provide communications access.
Compensation systems.
(Cat 6) Consist of the primary scalar sensor, one or more reference sensors (
e.g.,
vector “magnetometers”) together with software that permit reduction of the rigid body rotation noise of the platform.
Complete breech mechanisms.
The mechanism for opening and closing the breech of a breech-loading firearm, especially of a heavy-caliber weapon.
Component.
This is an item that is useful only when used in conjunction with an “end item.” “Components” are also commonly referred to as assemblies. For purposes of this definition an assembly and a “component” are the same. There are two types of “components”: “Major components” and “minor components.” A “major component” includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an “end item” without which the “end item” is inoperable. For example, for an automobile, “components” will include the engine, transmission, and battery. If you do not have all those items, the automobile will not function, or function as effectively. A “minor component” includes any assembled element of a “major component.” “Components” consist of “parts.” References in the CCL to “components” include both “major components” and “minor components.”
Composite.
(Cat 1, 2, 6, 8, and 9)—A “matrix” and an additional phase or additional phases consisting of particles, whiskers, fibers or any combination thereof, present for a specific purpose or purposes.
“III/V compounds”. (Cat 3 and 6) Polycrystalline or binary or complex monocrystalline products consisting of elements of groups IIIA and VA of Mendeleyev's periodic classification table (e.g., gallium arsenide, gallium-aluminum arsenide, indium phosphide).
Contouring control.
(Cat 2)—Two or more “numerically controlled” motions operating in accordance with instructions that specify the next required position and the required feed rates to that position. These feed rates are varied in relation to each other so that a desired contour is generated (Ref. ISO/DIS 2806—1980).
Controlled country.
Countries designated controlled for national security purposes under authority delegated to the Secretary of Commerce by Executive Order 12214 of May 2, 1980 pursuant to section 5(b) of the EAA. The controlled countries are: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cambodia, Cuba, the People's Republic of China, Georgia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Macau, Moldova, Mongolia, North Korea, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam. All of the controlled countries except Cuba are listed in Country Group D:1 of the EAR. Cuba is listed in Country Group E:2. This definition does not apply to part 768 of the EAR (Foreign Availability), which provides a dedicated definition.
Countries supporting international terrorism.
In accordance with § 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (EAA), the Secretary of State has determined that the following countries' governments have repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism: Iran, North Korea, and Syria.
Country Chart.
A chart, found in supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR, that contains certain licensing requirements based on destination and reason for control. In combination with the CCL, the Country Chart indicates when a license is required for any item on the CCL to any country in the world under General Prohibition One (Exports and Reexports in the Form Received), General Prohibition Two (Parts and Components Reexports), and General Prohibition Three (Foreign
Produced Direct Product Reexports). See part 736 of the EAR.
Country Groups.
For export control purposes, foreign countries are separated into five country groups designated by the symbols A, B, C, D, and E. (See supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR for a list of countries in each Country Group.)
Critical temperature.
(Cat 1, 3, 5P1, and 6)—The “critical temperature” (sometimes referred to as the transition temperature) of a specific “superconductive” material is the temperature at which the material loses all resistance to the flow of direct electrical current.
Crude oil.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that existed in liquid phase in underground reservoirs, remains liquid at atmospheric pressure (after passing through surface separating facilities), and has not been processed through a crude oil distillation tower. Crude oil includes reconstituted crude petroleum, lease condensate, and liquid hydrocarbons produced from tar sands, gilsonite, and oil shale. Drip gases are also included, but topped crude oil, residual oil, and other finished and unfinished oils are excluded.
Cryptanalytic items.
(Cat 5P2) Systems, equipment or components designed or modified to perform 'cryptanalytic functions', software having the characteristics of cryptanalytic hardware or performing 'cryptanalytic functions', or technology for the development, production or use of cryptanalytic commodities or software.

# Note:
1. 'Cryptanalytic functions' are functions designed to defeat cryptographic mechanisms in order to derive confidential variables or sensitive data, including clear text, passwords or cryptographic keys. These functions may include 'cryptanalysis,' which is the analysis of a cryptographic system or its inputs and outputs to derive confidential variables or sensitive data, including clear text. (ISO 7498-2-1988 (E), paragraph 3.3.18).
2. Functions specially designed and limited to protect against malicious computer damage or unauthorized system intrusion (e.g., viruses, worms and trojan horses) are not construed to be 'cryptanalytic functions.').
Cryptographic activation.
(Cat 5P2) Any technique that specifically activates or enables cryptographic capability of an item, by means of a mechanism implemented by the manufacturer of the item, where this mechanism is uniquely bound to any of the following:
(1) A single instance of the item; or
(2) One customer, for multiple instances of the item.

# Technical note 1 to definition of “Cryptographic activation”:
“Cryptographic activation” techniques and mechanisms may be implemented as hardware, “software” or “technology”.

# Technical note 2 to definition of “Cryptographic activation”:
Mechanisms for “cryptographic activation” can, for example, be serial number-based license keys or authentication instruments such as digitally signed certificates.
Cryptography
(Cat 5P2)—The discipline that embodies principles, means and methods for the transformation of data in order to hide its information content, prevent its undetected modification or prevent its unauthorized use. “Cryptography” is limited to the transformation of information using one or more 'secret parameters' (
e.g.,
crypto variables) and/or associated key management.

# Notes:
1. “Cryptography” does not include 'fixed' data compression or coding techniques.
2. “Cryptography” includes decryption.

# Technical Notes:
1. 'Secret parameter': A constant or key kept from the knowledge of others or shared only within a group.
2. 'Fixed': The coding or compression algorithm cannot accept externally supplied parameters (e.g., cryptographic or key variables) and cannot be modified by the user.
Customs officer.
The Customs officers in the U.S. Customs Service and postmasters unless the context indicates otherwise.
CW Laser.
(Cat 6) A CW (Continuous Wave) laser is defined as a laser that produces a nominally constant output energy for greater than 0.25 seconds.
Cyber incident response.
(§ 740.22, Cat 4) means the process of exchanging necessary information on a cybersecurity incident with individuals or organizations responsible for conducting or coordinating remediation to address the cybersecurity incident.
Data-Based Referenced Navigation (“DBRN”) Systems.
(Cat 7) Systems which use various sources of previously measured geo-mapping data integrated
to provide accurate navigation information under dynamic conditions. Data sources include bathymetric maps, stellar maps, gravity maps, magnetic maps or 3-D digital terrain maps.
“Data signaling rate.”
(Cat 5) means the rate, as defined in ITU Recommendation 53-36, taking into account that, for non-binary modulation, baud and bit per second are not equal. Bits for coding, checking and synchronization functions are to be included.

# Note:
When determining the “data signaling rate”, servicing and administrative channels shall be excluded.

# Technical Note:
It is the maximum one-way rate, i.e., the maximum rate in either transmission or reception.
Depleted uranium.
(Cat 0) means uranium depleted in the isotope 235 below that occurring in nature.
Designed or modified.
(MTCR context)—Equipment, parts, components, or “software” that, as a result of “development”, or modification, have specified properties that make them fit for a particular application. “Designed or modified” equipment, parts, components or “software” can be used for other applications. For example, a titanium coated pump designed for a “missile” may be used with corrosive fluids other than propellants.
Development.
(General Technology Note)—“Development” is related to all stages prior to serial production, such as: design, design research, design analyses, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, layouts.
Diffusion bonding.
(Cat 1 and 2)—A solid state joining of at least two separate pieces of metals into a single piece with a joint strength equivalent to that of the weakest material, wherein the principal mechanism is interdiffusion of atoms across the interface.
Digital computer.
(Cat 4 and 5)—Equipment that can, in the form of one or more discrete variables, perform all of the following:
(a) Accept data;
(b) Store data or instructions in fixed or alterable (writable) storage devices;
(c) Process data by means of a stored sequence of instructions that is modifiable; and
(d) Provide output of data.

# Note:
Modifications of a stored sequence of instructions include replacement of fixed storage devices, but not a physical change in wiring or interconnections.
Digital transfer rate.
(Cat 5)—The total bit rate of the information that is directly transferred on any type of medium. (See also “total digital transfer rate”)
Direct product.
The immediate product (including processes and services) produced directly by the use of technology or software.
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC).
The office at the Department of State, formerly known as the Office of Defense Trade Controls and before that as the Office of Munitions Control, responsible for reviewing applications to export and reexport items on the U.S. Munitions List. (See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
Dual use.
Items that have both commercial and military or proliferation applications. While this term is used informally to describe items that are subject to the EAR, purely commercial items and certain munitions items listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML) or the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex are also subject to the EAR (see § 734.2(a) of the EAR).
Dynamic adaptive routing.
(Cat 5)—Automatic rerouting of traffic based on sensing and analysis of current actual network conditions.

# Note:
This does not include cases of routing decisions taken on predefined information.
Effective control.
You maintain effective control over an item when you either retain physical possession of the item, or secure the item in such an environment as a hotel safe, a bonded warehouse, or a locked or guarded exhibition facility. Retention of effective control over an item is a condition of certain temporary exports and reexports.
Electronic assembly.
(Cat 4) means a number of electronic components (i.e.,
‘circuit elements’, ‘discrete components’, integrated circuits, etc.) connected together to perform (a) specific function(s), replaceable as an entity and normally capable of being disassembled.
Technical Notes:
1. ‘Circuit element’: a single active or passive functional part of an electronic circuit, such as one diode, one transistor, one resistor, one capacitor, etc.
2. ‘Discrete component’: a separately packaged ‘circuit element’ with its own external connections.
Encryption component.
Any encryption commodity or software (except source code), including encryption chips, integrated circuits, application specific encryption toolkits, or executable or linkable modules that alone are incapable of performing complete cryptographic functions, and is designed or intended for use in or the production of another encryption item.
Encryption items.
The phrase encryption items includes all encryption commodities, software, and technology that contain encryption features and are subject to the EAR. This does not include encryption items specifically designed, developed, configured, adapted or modified for military applications (including command, control and intelligence applications) which are controlled by the Department of State on the U.S. Munitions List.
Encryption licensing arrangement.
A license that allows the export of specified products to specified destinations in unlimited quantities. In certain cases, exports are limited to specified end-users for specified end-uses. Generally, reporting of all sales of the specified products is required at six month intervals. This includes sales made under distribution arrangements and distribution and warehousing agreements that were previously issued by the Department of State for encryption items.
Encryption object code.
Computer programs containing an encryption source code that has been compiled into a form of code that can be directly executed by a computer to perform an encryption function.
Encryption software.
Computer programs that provide capability of encryption functions or confidentiality of information or information systems. Such software includes source code, object code, applications software, or system software.
Encryption source code.
A precise set of operating instructions to a computer that, when compiled, allows for the execution of an encryption function on a computer.
End-effectors.
(Cat 2) Grippers, 'active tooling units' and any other tooling that is attached to the baseplate on the end of a “robot” manipulator arm.
Technical Note to definition of “End-effectors”:
'Active tooling unit': a device for applying motive power, process energy or sensing to the workpiece.
End item.
This is a system, equipment or assembled commodity ready for its intended use. Only ammunition, or fuel or other energy source is required to place it in an operating state. Examples of end items include ships, aircraft, computers, firearms, and milling machines.
End-user.
The person abroad that receives and ultimately uses the exported or reexported items. The end-user is not a forwarding agent or intermediary, but may be the purchaser or ultimate consignee.
Energetic materials.
(Cat 1) Substances or mixtures that react chemically to release energy required for their intended application. “Explosives”, “pyrotechnics” and “propellants” are subclasses of energetic materials.
Equipment.
This is a combination of parts, components, accessories, attachments, firmware, or software that operate together to perform a function of, as, or for an end item or system. Equipment may be a subset of “end items” based on the characteristics of the equipment. Equipment that meets the definition of an end-item is an end-item. Equipment that does not meet the definition of an end-item is a part, component, accessory, attachment, firmware, or software.
Equivalent Density.
(Cat 6)—The mass of an optic per unit optical area projected onto the optical surface.
Equivalent standards.
(Cat 1)—Comparable national or international standards recognized by one or more Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States and applicable to the relevant entry.
Explosives.
(Cat 1)—see Annex “List of Explosives” located at the end of
Category 1 of supplement no. 1 to part 774 “Commerce Control List”.
Export.
See § 734.13 of the EAR.
Export Administration Act (EAA).
Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, effective October 1, 1979.
Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
Regulations set forth in parts 730-774, inclusive, of Title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Export Administration Review Board
—The body authorized by Executive Order 12002 as amended by Executive Orders 12755 and 13286. The Export Administration Review Board's role in license application review is in accordance with Executive Order 12981 as amended by Executive Orders 13020, 13026 and 13117.
Export Control Classification Number (ECCN).
The numbers used in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR and throughout the EAR. The Export Control Classification Number consists of a set of digits and a letter. Reference § 738.2(c) of the EAR for a complete description of each ECCN's composition.
Export control document.
A license; application for license; any and all documents submitted in accordance with the requirements of the EAR in support of, or in relation to, a license application; application for International Import Certificate; Delivery Verification Certificate or similar evidence of delivery; Electronic Export Information (EEI) on the Automated Export System (AES) presented in connection with shipments to any country; a Dock Receipt or bill of lading issued by any carrier in connection with any export subject to the EAR and any and all documents prepared and submitted by exporters and agents pursuant to the export clearance requirements of part 758 of the EAR; a U.S. exporter's report of request received for information, certification, or other action indicating a restrictive trade practice or boycott imposed by a foreign country against a country friendly to the United States, submitted to the U.S. Department of Commerce in accordance with the provisions of part 760 of the EAR; Customs Form 7512, Transportation Entry and Manifest of Goods, Subject to Customs Inspection and Permit, when used for Transportation and Exportation (T.
E.) or Immediate Exportation (I.E.); and any other document issued by a U.S. Government agency as evidence of the existence of a license for the purpose of loading onto an exporting carrier or otherwise facilitating or effecting an export from the United States or any reexport of any item requiring a license.
Exporter.
The person in the United States who has the authority of a principal party in interest to determine and control the sending of items out of the United States.
Exporting carrier.
Any instrumentality of water, land, or air transportation by which an export is effected, including any domestic air carrier on which any cargo for export is laden or carried.
Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV).
Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) means electromagnetic spectrum wavelengths greater than 5 nm and less than 124 nm.
FADEC systems.
See “full authority digital engine control systems.”
FMU
—See “flexible manufacturing unit”
Facilities.
This means a building or outdoor area in which people use an item that is built, installed, produced, or developed for a particular purpose.
Fibrous or filamentary materials.
(Cat 1, 2, 8 and 9)—The term “fibrous and filamentary materials” includes:
(a) Continuous monofilaments;
(b) Continuous yarns and rovings;
(c) Tapes, fabrics, random mats and braids;
(d) Chopped fibers, staple fibers and coherent fiber blankets;
(e) Whiskers, either monocrystalline or polycrystalline, of any length;
(f) Aromatic polyimide pulp.
Film type integrated circuit.
(Cat 3)—An array of “circuit elements” and metallic interconnections formed by deposition of a thick or thin film on an insulating “substrate”.

# Note:
“Circuit element”: a single active or passive functional part of an electronic circuit, such as one diode, one transistor, one resistor, one capacitor, etc.
Financial Institution.
As applied to encryption items, means any of the following:
(a) A broker, dealer, government securities broker or dealer, self-regulatory organization, investment company or investment adviser, which is regulated or supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission or a self-regulatory organization that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; or
(b) A broker, dealer, government securities broker or dealer, investment company, investment adviser, or entity that engages in securities activities that, if conducted in the United States, would be described by the definition of the term “self-regulatory organization” in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which is organized under the laws of a foreign country and regulated or supervised by a foreign securities authority; or
(c) A U.S. board of trade that is designated as a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a futures commission merchant that is regulated or supervised by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
(d) A U.S. entity engaged primarily in the business of issuing a general purpose charge, debit, or stored value card, or a branch of, or affiliate controlled by, such an entity; or
(e) A branch or affiliate of any of the entities listed in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this definition regulated or supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or a foreign securities authority; or
(f) An affiliate of any of the entities listed in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (e), of this definition engaged solely in the business of providing data processing services to one or more bank or financial institutions, or a branch of such an affiliate; or
(g) A company organized and regulated under the laws of any of the United States and its branches and affiliates whose primary and predominant business activity is the writing of insurance or the reinsuring of risks; or a company organized and regulated under the laws of a foreign country and its branches and affiliates whose primary and predominant business activity is the writing of insurance or the reinsuring of risks.
Firm.
A corporation, partnership, limited partnership, association, company, trust, or any other kind of organization or body corporate, situated, residing, or doing business in the United States or any foreign country, including any government or agency thereof.
Flexible manufacturing unit.
(FMU), (sometimes also referred to as ‘flexible manufacturing system’ (FMS) or ‘flexible manufacturing cell’ (FMC)) (Cat 2)—An entity that includes a combination of at least:
(a) A “digital computer” including its own “main storage” and its own “related equipment”; and
(b) Two or more of the following:
(1) A machine tool described in 2B001.c;
(2) A dimensional inspection machine described in Category 2, or another digitally controlled measuring machine controlled by an entry in Category 2;
(3) A “robot” controlled by an entry in Category 2 or 8;
(4) Digitally controlled equipment controlled by 1B003, 2B003, or 9B001;
(5) “Stored program controlled” equipment controlled by 3B001;
(6) Digitally controlled equipment controlled by 1B001;
(7) Digitally controlled electronic equipment controlled by 3A002.
Fly-by-light system.
(Cat 7) A primary digital flight control system employing feedback to control the “aircraft” during flight, where the commands to the effectors/actuators are optical signals.
Fly-by-wire system.
(Cat 7) A primary digital flight control system employing feedback to control the “aircraft” during flight, where the commands to the effectors/actuators are electrical signals.
Focal plane array.
(Cat 6 and 8)—A linear or two-dimensional planar layer, or combination of planar layers, of individual detector elements, with or without readout electronics, that work in the focal plane.

# N.B.
This definition does not include a stack of single detector elements or any two, three, or four element detectors provided time delay and integration is not performed within the element.
Food.
Specific to exports and reexports to North Korea, Syria, Crimea region of Ukraine, and the so-called Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic regions of Ukraine, food means items that are consumed by and provide nutrition to humans and animals, and seeds, with the exception of castor bean seeds, that germinate into items that will be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans and animals. (Food does not include alcoholic beverages.)
Foreign government agency.
For the purposes of exemption from support documentation (see § 748.9 of the EAR), a foreign government agency is defined as follows:
(a) National governmental departments operated by government-paid personnel performing governmental administrative functions; e.g. Finance Ministry, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Health, etc. (municipal or other local government entities must submit required support documentation); or
(b) National government-owned public service entities; e.g., nationally owned railway, postal, telephone, telegraph, broadcasting, and power systems, etc. The term “foreign government agency” does not include government corporations, quasi-government agencies, and state enterprises engaged in commercial, industrial, and manufacturing activities, such as petroleum refineries, mines, steel mills, retail stores, automobile manufacturing plants, airlines, or steamship lines that operate between two or more countries, etc.
Foreign person.
Any natural person who is not a lawful permanent resident of the United States, citizen of the United States, or any other protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3). It also means any corporation, business association, partnership, trust, society or any other entity or group that is not incorporated in the United States or organized to do business in the United States, as well as international organizations, foreign governments and any agency or subdivision of a foreign government (
e.g.,
diplomatic mission). “Foreign person” is synonymous with “foreign national,” as used in the EAR, and “foreign person” as used in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR 120.16). This definition does not apply to part 760 of the EAR (Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts).
Foreign policy control.
A control imposed under the EAR for any and all of the following reasons: chemical and biological weapons, nuclear nonproliferation, missile technology, regional stability, crime control, anti-terrorism, United Nations sanctions, and any other reason for control implemented under section 6 of the EAA or other similar authority.
Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTO).
Any organization that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be a foreign terrorist organization under notices or regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (see 31 CFR chapter V).
Forwarding agent.
The person in the United States who is authorized by a principal party in interest to perform the services required to facilitate the export of the items from the United States. This may include air couriers or carriers. In routed export transactions, the forwarding agent and the exporter may be the same for compliance purposes under the EAR.
Fractional bandwidth.
(Cat 3, 5P1, 5P2)—The “instantaneous bandwidth” divided by the center frequency, expressed as a percentage.
Frequency hopping.
(Cat 5P1, 5P2 and 6)—A form of “spread spectrum” in which the transmission frequency of a single communication channel is made to change by a random or pseudo-random sequence of discrete steps.
Frequency switching time.
(Cat 3) The time (
i.e.,
delay) taken by a signal when switched from an initial specified output frequency, to arrive at or within any of the following:
(1) ±100 Hz of a final specified output frequency of less than 1 GHz;
or
(2) ±0.1 part per million of a final specified output frequency equal to or greater than 1 GHz.
Fuel cell.
(Cat 8) An electrochemical device that converts chemical energy directly into Direct Current (DC) electricity by consuming fuel from an external source.
Full Authority Digital Engine Control Systems.
(“FADEC Systems”) (Cat 9) A digital electronic control system for a
gas turbine engine that is able to autonomously control the engine throughout its whole operating range from demanded engine start until demanded engine shut down, in both normal and fault conditions.
Fundamental research.
See § 734.8 of the EAR.
Fusible.
(Cat 1)—Capable of being cross-linked or polymerized further (cured) by the use of heat, radiation, catalysts, etc., or that can be melted without pyrolysis (charring).
Gate-All-Around Field-Effect Transistor (“GAAFET”).
(Cat 3)—A device having a single or multiple semiconductor conduction channel element(s) with a common gate structure that surrounds and controls current in all of the semiconductor conduction channel elements. (
Note:
This definition includes nanosheet or nanowire field-effect and surrounding gate transistors and other “GAAFET” semiconductor channel element structures.)
GDSII (“Graphic Design System II”)
(Cat 3) is a database file format for data exchange of integrated circuit artwork or integrated circuit layout artwork.
General prohibitions.
The 10 prohibitions found in part 736 of the EAR that prohibit certain exports, reexports, and other conduct, subject to the EAR, absent a license, license exception, or determination that no license is required (“NLR”).
“Government end user” (as applied to encryption items
). A government end user is any foreign central, regional or local government department, agency, or other entity performing governmental functions; including governmental research institutions, governmental corporations or their separate business units (as defined in part 772 of the EAR) which are engaged in the manufacture or distribution of items or services controlled on the Wassenaar Munitions List, and international governmental organizations. This term does not include: Utilities (including telecommunications companies and Internet service providers); banks and financial institutions; transportation; broadcast or entertainment; educational organizations (except public schools and universities); civil health and medical organizations (including public civilian hospitals); retail or wholesale firms; and manufacturing or industrial entities not engaged in the manufacture or distribution of items or services controlled on the Wassenaar Munitions List.
Hard selectors.
(Cat 5P1) Data or set of data, related to an individual (
e.g.,
family name, given name, email, street address, phone number or group affiliations).
Hold Without Action (HWA).
License applications may be held without action only in the limited circumstances described in § 750.4(b) of the EAR. Encryption review requests may be placed on hold without action status as provided in § 740.17(d)(2) and § 742.15(b)(2) of the EAR.
Hybrid computer.
(Cat 4)—Equipment that can:
(a) Accept data;
(b) Process data, in both analog and digital representation; and
(c) Provide output of data.
Hybrid integrated circuit.
(Cat 3)—Any combination of integrated circuit(s), or integrated circuit with “circuit elements” or “discrete components” connected together to perform (a) specific function(s), and having all of the following criteria:
(a) Containing at least one unencapsulated device;
(b) Connected together using typical IC-production methods;
(c) Replaceable as an entity; and
(d) Not normally capable of being disassembled.

# Notes:
1. “Circuit element”: a single active or passive functional part of an electronic circuit, such as one diode, one transistor, one resistor, one capacitor, etc.
2. “Discrete component”: a separately packaged “circuit element” with its own external connections.
Image enhancement.
(Cat 4)—The processing of externally derived information-bearing images by algorithms such as time compression, filtering, extraction, selection, correlation, convolution or transformations between domains (e.g., fast Fourier transform or Walsh transform). This does not include algorithms using only linear or rotational transformation of a single image, such as translation, feature extraction, registration or false coloration.
Information security.
(Cat 5P2, GSIN, GSN)—All the means and functions ensuring the accessibility, confidentiality or integrity of information or communications, excluding the means and functions intended to safeguard against malfunctions. This includes “cryptography”, “cryptographic activation”, “cryptanalysis”, protection against compromising emanations and computer security.
Technical Note to definition of “Information security”:
'Cryptanalysis': the analysis of a cryptographic system or its inputs and outputs to derive confidential variables or sensitive data, including clear text. (ISO 7498-2-1988 (E), paragraph 3.3.18)
Instantaneous bandwidth.
(Cat 3 and 5)—The bandwidth over which output power remains constant within 3 dB without adjustment of other operating parameters.
Intent to Deny (ITD) letter.
A letter informing the applicant:
(a) Of the reason for BIS's decision to deny a license application; and
(b) That the application will be denied 45 days from the date of the ITD letter, unless the applicant provides, and BIS accepts, a reason why the application should not be denied for the stated reason. See § 750.6 of the EAR.
Interleaved Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC).
(Cat 3) Devices that have multiple ADC units that sample the same analog input at different times such that when the outputs are aggregated, the analog input has been effectively sampled and converted at a higher sampling rate.
Intermediate consignee.
The person that acts as an agent for a principal party in interest for the purpose of effecting delivery of items to the ultimate consignee. The intermediate consignee may be a bank, forwarding agent, or other person who acts as an agent for a principal party in interest.
Intrinsic Magnetic Gradiometer.
(Cat 6)—A single magnetic field gradient sensing element and associated electronics the output of which is a measure of magnetic field gradient. (See also “Magnetic Gradiometer”)
Intrusion software.
(5P2) “Software” specially designed or modified to avoid detection by 'monitoring tools', or to defeat 'protective countermeasures', of a computer or network-capable device, and performing any of the following:
(1) The extraction of data or information, from a computer or network-capable device, or the modification of system or user data; or
(2) The modification of the standard execution path of a “program” or process in order to allow the execution of externally provided instructions.
Note 1 to “Intrusion Software” Definition:
“Intrusion software” does not include any of the following: Hypervisors, debuggers or Software Reverse Engineering (SRE) tools; Digital Rights Management (DRM) “software”; or “Software” designed to be installed by manufacturers, administrators or users, for the purposes of asset tracking or recovery.
Note 2 to “Intrusion Software” Definition:
Network-capable devices include mobile devices and smart meters.
Technical Note 1 to “Intrusion Software” Definition:
'Monitoring tools': “software” or hardware devices, that monitor system behaviors or processes running on a device. This includes antivirus (AV) products, end point security products, Personal Security Products (PSP), Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) or firewalls.
Technical Note 2 to “Intrusion Software” Definition:
'Protective countermeasures': techniques designed to ensure the safe execution of code, such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) or sandboxing.
Isostatic presses.
(Cat 2)—Equipment capable of pressurizing a closed cavity through various media (gas, liquid, solid particles, etc.) to create equal pressure in all directions within the cavity upon a workpiece or material.
Item.
“Item” means “commodities, software, and technology.” When the EAR intend to refer specifically to commodities, software, or technology, the text will use the specific reference.
Know.
See “knowledge.”
Knowledge.
Knowledge of a circumstance (the term may be a variant, such as “know,” “reason to know,” or “reason to believe”) includes not only positive knowledge that the circumstance exists or is substantially certain to occur, but also an awareness of a high probability of its existence or future occurrence. Such awareness is inferred from evidence of the conscious disregard of facts known to a person and is also inferred from a person's willful avoidance of facts. This definition does not apply to part 760 of the EAR (Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts).
Laser.
(Cat 1, 2, 3, 5P1, 6, 7, 8 and 9)—An item that produces spatially and temporally coherent light through amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. See also: “Chemical laser;” “Super High Power Laser;” and “Transfer laser.”
Law or regulation relating to export control.
Any statute, proclamation, executive order, regulation, rule, license, or order applicable to any conduct involving an export transaction shall be deemed to be a “law or regulation relating to export control.”
Legible or legibility.
Legible and legibility mean the quality of a letter or numeral that enables the observer to identify it positively and quickly to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals.
Less sensitive government end users (as applied to encryption items and 'cybersecurity items').
The following “government end users” (as defined in this section) are considered “less sensitive” for the purposes of License Exception ENC (§ 740.17 of the EAR) and License Exception ACE (§ 740.22 of the EAR):
(1) Local/state/provincial “government end users” (departments, agencies, and entities), including local/state/provincial executive, legislative, judicial, police, fire, rescue, and public safety agencies.
(2) National/federal/royal “government end users” (departments, agencies, and entities) providing the following civil government functions and services:
(i) Census and statistics services;
(ii) Civil public works infrastructure services (construction, maintenance, repair, regulation, and administration) as follows: Buildings, public transportation, roads and highways, trucking;
(iii) Civil service administration and regulation, including human resources and personnel/labor management;
(iv) Clean water infrastructure services (treatment, supply and testing);
(v) Economic (trade/commerce/investment), business and industrial development, promotion, regulation and administration, excluding the following end users/end uses:
(A) Agencies, departments, boards, and councils for science and technology;
(B) Research, development, and national laboratories (other than as specified in paragraphs (2)(xi) (measurements and standards services) and (2)(xii) (meteorology/weather/atmospheric services) of this definition); and
(C) National telecommunications and information technology agencies, boards, councils, and development authorities (including national information center, and Information Communications Technology (ICT)/telecommunications infrastructure/spectrum planning, policy, regulation, and testing);
(vi) Elections, balloting, and polling services;
(vii) Energy regulation and administration, including oil, gas, and mining sectors;
(viii) Environmental/natural resources regulation, administration, and protection, including wildlife, fisheries, and national parks;
(ix) Food/agriculture regulation and administration;
(x) Labor/community/social services planning, regulation, and administration, including: Housing and urban development, municipality and rural affairs;
(xi) Measurements and standards services;
(xii) Meteorology (weather, atmospheric) services;
(xiii) National archives/museums;
(xiv) Patents;
(xv) Pilgrimage and religious affairs;
(xvi) Postal services;
(xvii) Public and higher education (excluding government research institutions and any agency, institution, or affiliate engaged in the manufacture or distribution of items or services controlled on the Wassenaar Munitions List);
(xviii) Public health and medicine/pharmaceutical regulation and administration;
(xix) Public libraries;
(xx) Sports/culture (includes film, commercial broadcasting, and the arts) promotion, regulation, and administration; and
(xxi) Travel/tourism promotion, regulation, and administration.
Library.
(Cat 1) (parametric technical database) A collection of technical information, reference to which may enhance the performance of the relevant systems, equipment or components.
License.
Authority issued by the Bureau of Industry and Security authorizing an export, reexport, or other regulated activity. The term “license” does not include authority represented by a “License Exception.”
License application; application for license.
License application and similar wording mean an application to BIS requesting the issuance of a license to the applicant.
License Exception.
An authorization described in part 740 of the EAR that allows you to export or reexport, under stated conditions, items subject to the EAR that otherwise would require a license. Unless otherwise indicated, these License Exceptions are not applicable to exports under the licensing jurisdiction of agencies other than the Department of Commerce.
Licensee.
The person to whom a license has been issued by BIS. See § 750.7(c) of the EAR for a complete definition and identification of a licensee's responsibilities.
Lighter-than-air vehicles.
(Cat 2 and 9) Balloons and “airships” that rely on hot air or on lighter-than-air gases such as helium or hydrogen for their lift.
Local area network.
(Cat 4 and 5 Part 1)—A data communication system that:
(a) Allows an arbitrary number of independent 'data devices' to communicate directly with each other; and
(b) Is confined to a geographical area of moderate size (
e.g.,
office building, plant, campus, warehouse).
Technical Note to definition of “Local area network”:
'Data device' means equipment capable of transmitting or receiving sequences of digital information.
MBTR
—See “maximum bit transfer rate”.
MTCR.
See Missile Technology Control Regime.
MTEC.
See Missile Technology Export Control Group.
Magnetic Gradiometers.
(Cat 6)—Are designed to detect the spatial variation of magnetic fields from sources external to the instrument. They consist of multiple “magnetometers” and associated electronics the output of which is a measure of magnetic field gradient. (See also “Intrinsic Magnetic Gradiometer”.)
Magnetometers.
(Cat 6)—Are designed to detect magnetic fields from sources external to the instrument. They consist of a single magnetic field sensing element and associated electronics the output of which is a measure of the magnetic field.
Material.
This is any list-specified crude or processed matter that is not clearly identifiable as any of the types of items defined in § 772.1 under the defined terms, “end item,” “component,” “accessories,” “attachments,” “part,” “software,” “system, “equipment,” or “facilities.” The exclusion from the definition of material for clearly identifiable items defined in § 772.1, such as for “parts” and “components,” does not apply to the following ECCNs: 1C233, 1C234, 1C235, 1C236, 1C237, 1C239, 1C350, 1C395, 1C991, 1C992, and 1C995.
Matrix.
(Cat 1, 2, 8, and 9)—A substantially continuous phase that fills the space between particles, whiskers or fibers.
Maximum bit transfer rate.
(MBTR) (Cat 4)—Of solid state storage equipment: the number of data bits per second transferred between the equipment and its controller. Of a disk drive: the internal data transfer rate calculated as follows:
“MBTR” (bits per second) = B × R × T, where:
B = Maximum number of data bits per track available to read or write in a single revolution;
R = Revolutions per second;
T = Number of tracks that can be used or written simultaneously.
Measurement uncertainty.
(Cat 2) The characteristic parameter that specifies in what range around the output value the correct value of the measurable variable lies with a confidence level of 95%. It includes the uncorrected systematic deviations, the uncorrected backlash, and the random deviations (Ref.: ISO 10360-2).
Media access unit.
(Cat 5)—Equipment that contains one or more communication interfaces (“network access controller”, “communications channel controller”, modem or computer bus)
to connect terminal equipment to a network.
Medical devices.
For purposes of the EAR, medical devices are “devices” as defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) including medical supplies, instruments, equipment, equipped ambulances, institutional washing machines for sterilization, and vehicles with medical testing equipment. Note that certain component parts and spares to be exported for incorporation into medical devices are on the Commerce Control List. Only items meeting the definition of “medical device” and that are classified as EAR99 are eligible for export to Iran and under the licensing procedures set forth in the appropriate regulations promulgated and administered by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Medicines.
Medicines means “drug” as defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321). For purposes of the EAR, medicines includes prescription and over the counter medicines for humans and animals. Note that certain medicines, such as vaccines and immunotoxins, are on the Commerce Control List. Only items meeting the definition of “medicine” and that are classified as EAR99 are eligible for export to Iran and under the licensing procedures set forth in the appropriate regulations promulgated and administered by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Metal embrittlement agents.
(Cat. 0)—Non-lethal weapon substances that alter the crystal structure of metals within a short time span. Metal embrittlement agents severely weaken metals by chemically changing their molecular structure. These agents are compounded in various substances to include adhesives, liquids, aerosols, foams, and lubricants.
Microcomputer microcircuit.
(Cat 3) means a “monolithic integrated circuit” or “multichip integrated circuit” containing an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) capable of executing a series of general purpose instructions from an internal storage, on data contained in the internal storage.

# Technical Note 1:
The “microprocessor microcircuit” normally does not contain integral user-accessible storage, although storage present on-the-chip may be used in performing its logic function.

# Technical Note 2:
The internal storage may be augmented by an external storage.

# Note:
This definition includes chip sets which are designed to operate together to provide the function of a “microprocessor microcircuit.”
Microorganisms.
(Cat 1 and 2) means bacteria, viruses, mycoplasms, rickettsiae, chlamydiae or fungi, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of isolated live cultures or as material including living material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated with such cultures.
Microprocessor microcircuit.
(Cat 3)—A “monolithic integrated circuit” or “multichip integrated circuit” containing an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) capable of executing a series of general purpose instructions from an external storage.

# N.B.
1: The “microprocessor microcircuit” normally does not contain integral user-accessible storage, although storage present on-the-chip may be used in performing its logic function.
N.B. 2: This definition includes chip sets that are designed to operate together to provide the function of a “microprocessor microcircuit”.
Microprogram.
(Cat 4 and 5)—A sequence of elementary instructions, maintained in a special storage, the execution of which is initiated by the introduction of its reference instruction into an instruction register.
Military commodity.
As used in § 734.4(a)(5), supplement no. 1 to part 738 (footnote No. 3), §§ 740.2(a)(11), 740.16(a)(2), 740.16(b)(2), 742.6(a)(3), 744.9(a)(2), 744.9(b), ECCN 0A919 and (
Related Controls
) in “600 series” ECCNs, “military commodity” or “military commodities” means an article, material, or supply that is described on the U.S. Munitions List (22 CFR Part 121) or on the Munitions List that is published by the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies, but does not include software, technology and any item listed in any ECCN for which the last three numerals are 018 or any item in the “600 series.”
Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR).
The United States and other nations in this multilateral control regime have agreed to guidelines for restricting the export and reexport of dual-use items that may contribute to the development of missiles. The MTCR Annex lists missile-related equipment and technology controlled either by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security—Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR Parts 730 through 799) or by the Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls—International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR Parts 120 through 130).
Missile Technology Export Control Group (MTEC).
Chaired by the Department of State, the MTEC primarily reviews applications involving items controlled for Missile Technology (MT) reasons. The MTEC also reviews applications involving items not controlled for MT reasons, but destined for a country and/or end-use/end-user of concern.
“
Missiles”.
(All) Rocket systems (including ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets) and unmanned aerial vehicle systems (including cruise missiles, target drones, and reconnaissance drones) “capable of” delivering at least 500 kilograms payload to a range of at least 300 kilometers. See § 746.3 for definition of a “ballistic missile” to be exported or reexported to Iraq or transferred within Iraq.
“
MMIC
”. (Cat 3 and 5) See “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit”
Monolithic integrated circuit.
(Cat 3)—A combination of passive or active “circuit elements” or both that:
(a) Are formed by means of diffusion processes, implantation processes or deposition processes in or on a single semiconducting piece of material, a so-called ‘chip’;
(b) Can be considered as indivisibly associated; and
(c) Perform the function(s) of a circuit.

# Note:
“Circuit element”: a single active or passive functional part of an electronic circuit, such as one diode, one transistor, one resistor, one capacitor, etc.
“
Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit
” (“
MMIC
”) (Cat 3, 5P1 and 9) is a “monolithic integrated circuit” that operates at microwave or millimeter wave frequencies.
Monospectral imaging sensors.
(Cat 6) are capable of acquisition of imaging data from one discrete spectral band.
More sensitive government end users (as applied to encryption items and 'cybersecurity items').
The following national/federal/royal (departments, agencies, and entities) “government end users” (as defined in this section) providing the following government functions and services, are considered “more sensitive” for the purposes of License Exception ENC (§ 740.17 of the EAR) and License Exception ACE (§ 740.22 of the EAR):
(1) Agencies, departments, boards, and councils for science and technology (including research, development, and state/national laboratories, but not including measurements and standards);
(2) Currency and monetary authorities (including departments and offices of the national/federal/royal reserve);
(3) Executive agents of state (including offices of president/vice president/prime minister, royal courts, national security councils, cabinet/council of ministers/supreme councils/executive councils, crown princes and other deputies of the rulers, departments and offices of political/constitutional/mainland affairs);
(4) Legislative bodies responsible for the enactment of laws;
(5) Import/export control, customs and immigration agencies, and entities;
(6) Intelligence agencies and entities;
(7) Judiciary (including supreme courts and other national/federal/regional/royal high courts and tribunals);
(8) Maritime, port, railway, and airport authorities;
(9) Military and armed services (including national guard, coast guard, security bureaus, and paramilitary);
(10) Ministries, departments, and garrisons of defense (including defense technology agencies);
(11) Ministries and departments of finance and taxation (including national/federal/royal budget and revenue authorities);
(12) Ministries and departments of foreign affairs/foreign relations/consulates/embassies;
(13) Ministries of interior, internal/home/mainland affairs, and homeland security;
(14) State/national telecommunications and information technology agencies, boards, councils, and development authorities (including national information/critical infrastructure data centers, and Information and Communications Technology (ICT)/telecommunications infrastructure/spectrum planning, policy, regulation, and testing);
(15) Police, investigation and other law enforcement agencies, and entities (including digital crime/cybercrime/computer forensics, counter narcotics/counter terrorism/counter proliferation agencies);
(16) Prisons; and
(17) Public safety agencies and entities (including national/federal/royal agencies and departments of civil defense, emergency management, and first responders).
Motion control board.
(Cat 2)—An electronic “assembly” specially designed to provide a computer system with the capability to coordinate simultaneously the motion of axes of machine tools for “contouring control”.
Multichip integrated circuit.
(Cat 3)—Two or more “monolithic integrated circuits” bonded to a common “substrate”.
Multi-data-stream processing.
(Cat 4)—The “microprogram” or equipment architecture technique that permits simultaneous processing of two or more data sequences under the control of one or more instruction sequences by means such as:
(a) Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) architectures such as vector or array processors;
(b) Multiple Single Instruction Multiple Data (MSIMD) architectures;
(c) Multiple Instruction Multiple Data (MIMD) architectures, including those that are tightly coupled, closely coupled or loosely coupled; or
(d) Structured arrays of processing elements, including systolic arrays.
Multiple channel Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC).
(Cat 3) Devices that integrate more than one ADC, designed so that each ADC has a separate analog input.
Multispectral Imaging Sensors.
(Cat 6)—Are capable of simultaneous or serial acquisition of imaging data from two or more discrete spectral bands. Sensors having more than twenty discrete spectral bands are sometimes referred to as hyperspectral imaging sensors.
N.E.S.
N.E.S or n.e.s. is an abbreviation meaning “not elsewhere specified”.
NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization).
A strategic defensive organization that consists of the following member nations: Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
NLR.
NLR (“no license required”) is a symbol entered on the Electronic Export Information filing on the Automated Export System certifying that no license is required.
NSG.
See Nuclear Suppliers Group.
Natural uranium.
(Cat 0) means uranium containing the mixtures of isotopes occurring in nature.
Net value.
The actual selling price, less shipping charges or current market price, whichever is the larger, to the same type of purchaser in the United States.
Network Access Controller.
(Cat 4)—A physical interface to a distributed switching network. It uses a common medium which operates throughout at the same “digital transfer rate” using arbitration (e.g., token or carrier sense) for transmission. Independently from any other, it selects data packets or data groups (e.g., IEEE 802) addressed to it. It is an assembly that can be integrated into computer or telecommunications equipment to provide communications access.
Non-standard cryptography.
Means any implementation of “cryptography” involving the incorporation or use of proprietary or unpublished cryptographic functionality, including encryption algorithms or protocols that have not been adopted or approved by a duly recognized international standards body (e.g., IEEE, IETF, ISO,
ITU, ETSI, 3GPP, TIA, and GSMA) and have not otherwise been published.
Nuclear reactor.
(Cat 0 and 2) includes the items within or attached directly to the reactor vessel, the equipment which controls the level of power in the core, and the components which normally contain, come into direct contact with or control the primary coolant of the reactor core.
Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG).
The United States and other nations in this multilateral control regime have agreed to guidelines for restricting the export or reexport of items with nuclear applications. Members include: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, People's Republic of China, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States. See also § 742.3 of the EAR.
Numerical control.
(Cat 2)—The automatic control of a process performed by a device that makes use of numeric data usually introduced as the operation is in progress (Ref. ISO 2382).
“Object code”.
(or object language) (GSN)—An equipment executable form of a convenient expression of one or more processes (“source code” (or source language)) that has been compiled by a programming system. (See also “source code”)
Office of Foreign Assets Control (FAC) or (OFAC).
The office at the Department of the Treasury responsible for blocking assets of foreign countries subject to economic sanctions, controlling participation by U.S. persons, including foreign subsidiaries, in transactions with specific countries or nationals of such countries, and administering embargoes on certain countries or areas of countries. (See 31 CFR parts 500 through 590.)
Open cryptographic interface.
A mechanism which is designed to allow a customer or other party to insert cryptographic functionality without the intervention, help or assistance of the manufacturer or its agents, e.g., manufacturer's signing of cryptographic code or proprietary interfaces. If the cryptographic interface implements a fixed set of cryptographic algorithms, key lengths or key exchange management systems, that cannot be changed, it will not be considered an “open” cryptographic interface. All general application programming interfaces (e.g., those that accept either a cryptographic or non-cryptographic interface but do not themselves maintain any cryptographic functionality) will not be considered “open” cryptographic interfaces.
Operate autonomously.
(Cat 8)—Fully submerged, without snorkel, all systems working and cruising at minimum speed at which the submersible can safely control its depth dynamically by using its depth planes only, with no need for a support vessel or support base on the surface, sea-bed or shore, and containing a propulsion system for submerged or surface use.
Operating Committee (OC).
The OC voting members include representatives of appropriate agencies in the Departments of Commerce, State, Defense, Justice (for encryption exports), and Energy and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. The appropriate representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of the Nonproliferation Center of the Central Intelligence Agency are non-voting members. The Department of Commerce representative, appointed by the Secretary, is the Chair of the OC and serves as the Executive Secretary of the Advisory Committee on Export Policy. The OC may invite representatives of other Government agencies or departments (other than those identified in this definition) to participate in the activities of the OC when matters of interest to such agencies or departments are under consideration.
Operations, Administration or Maintenance
(“OAM”). (Cat 5P2) Means performing one or more of the following tasks:
(a) Establishing or managing any of the following:
(1) Accounts or privileges of users or administrators;
(2) Settings of an item; or
(3) Authentication data in support of the tasks described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this definition;
(b) Monitoring or managing the operating condition or performance of an item; or
(c) Managing logs or audit data in support of any of the tasks described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this definition.
Note to definition of “Operations, Administration or Maintenance”:
“OAM” does not include any of the following tasks or their associated key management functions:
a. Provisioning or upgrading any cryptographic functionality that is not directly related to establishing or managing authentication data in support of the tasks described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this definition; or
b. Performing any cryptographic functionality on the forwarding or data plane of an item.
Optical integrated circuit.
(Cat 3)—A “monolithic integrated circuit” or a “hybrid integrated circuit”, containing one or more parts designed to function as photosensor or photoemitter or to perform (an) optical or (an) electro-optical function(s).
Optical switching.
(Cat 5)—The routing of or switching of signals in optical form without conversion to electrical signals.
Order Party.
The person in the United States who conducted the direct negotiations or correspondence with the foreign purchaser or ultimate consignee and who, as a result of these negotiations, received the order from the foreign purchaser or ultimate consignee.
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
Means the international organization, located in The Hague, Netherlands, that administers the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Other party authorized to receive license.
The person authorized by the applicant to receive the license. If a person and address is listed in Block 15 of the application, the Bureau of Industry and Security will send the license to that person instead of the applicant. Designation of another party to receive the license does not alter the responsibilities of the applicant, licensee or exporter.
Overall current density.
(Cat 3)—The total number of ampere-turns in the coil (i.e., the sum of the number of turns multiplied by the maximum current carried by each turn) divided by the total cross-section of the coil (comprising the superconducting filaments, the metallic matrix in which the superconducting filaments are embedded, the encapsulating material, any cooling channels, etc.).
Part.
This is any single unassembled element of a “component,” “accessory,” or “attachment” which is not normally subject to disassembly without the destruction or the impairment of design use. Examples include threaded fasteners (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts), other fasteners (e.g., clips, rivets, pins), common hardware (e.g., washers, spacers, insulators, grommets, bushings), springs and wire.
Part program.
(Cat. 2)—An ordered set of instructions that is in a language and in a format required to cause operations to be effected under automatic control and that is either written in the form of a machine program on an input medium or prepared as input data for processing in a computer to obtain a machine program (Ref. ISO 2806-1980).
Payload. (MTCR context)
—The total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket system or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) system that is not used to maintain flight.

# Note:
The particular equipment, subsystems, or components to be included in the “payload” depends on the type and configuration of the vehicle under construction.

# Technical Notes:
a. Ballistic Missiles
1. “Payload” for systems with separating re-entry vehicles (RVs) includes:
i. The RVs, including:
A. Dedicated guidance, navigation, and control equipment;
B. Dedicated countermeasures equipment;
ii. Munitions of any type (e.g., explosive or non-explosive);
iii. Supporting structures and deployment mechanisms for the munitions (e.g., hardware used to attach to, or separate the RV from, the bus/post-boost vehicle) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
iv. Mechanisms and devices for safing, arming, fuzing, or firing;
v. Any other countermeasures equipment (e.g., decoys, jammers, or chaff dispensers) that separate from the RV bus/post-boost vehicle;
vi. The bus/post-boost vehicle or attitude control/velocity trim module not including
systems/subsystems essential to the operation of other stages.
2. “Payload” for systems with non-separating re-entry vehicles includes:
i. Munitions of any type (e.g., explosive or non-explosive);
ii. Supporting structures and deployment mechanisms for the munitions that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
iii. Mechanisms and devices for safing, arming, fuzing or firing;
iv. Any countermeasures equipment (e.g., decoys, jammers, or chaff dispensers) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle.
b. Space Launch Vehicles—“Payload” includes:
1. Spacecraft (single or multiple), including satellites;
2. Spacecraft-to-launch vehicle adapters including, if applicable, apogee/perigee kick motors or similar maneuvering systems and separation systems;
c. Sounding Rockets—“Payload” includes:
1. Equipment required for a mission, such as data gathering, recording or transmitting devices for mission-specific data;
2. Recovery equipment (e.g., parachutes) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle.
d. Cruise Missiles—“Payload” includes:
1. Munitions of any type (e.g., explosive or non-explosive);
2. Supporting structures and mechanisms for the munitions that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
3. Mechanisms and devices for safing, arming, fuzing or firing;
4. Countermeasures equipment (e.g., decoys, jammers or chaff dispensers) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
5. Signature alteration equipment that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
e. Other UAVs—“Payload” includes:
1. Munitions of any type (e.g., explosive or non-explosive);
2. Mechanisms and devices for safing, arming, fuzing or firing;
3. Countermeasures equipment (e.g., decoys, jammers or chaff dispensers) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
4. Signature alteration equipment that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
5. Equipment required for a mission such as data gathering, recording or transmitting devices for mission-specific data and supporting structures that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
6. Recovery equipment (e.g., parachutes) that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle;
7. Munitions supporting structures and deployment mechanisms that can be removed without violating the structural integrity of the vehicle.
Peak power.
(Cat 6)—The highest power attained in the “pulse duration.”
Person.
A natural person, including a citizen or national of the United States or of any foreign country; any firm; any government, government agency, government department, or government commission; any labor union; any fraternal or social organization; and any other association or organization whether or not organized for profit. This definition does not apply to part 760 of the EAR (Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts).
Personal area network (Cat 5 Part 2)
—A data communication system having all of the following characteristics:
(1) Allows an arbitrary number of independent or interconnected 'data devices' to communicate directly with each other; and
(2) Is confined to the communication between devices within the immediate physical vicinity of an individual person or device controller (
e.g.,
single room, office, or automobile).

# Technical Notes:
1. 'Data device' means equipment capable of transmitting or receiving sequences of digital information.
2. The “local area network” extends beyond the geographical area of the “personal area network”.
Port of export.
The port where the cargo to be shipped abroad is laden aboard the exporting carrier. It includes, in the case of an export by mail, the place of mailing.
Principal element.
(Cat 4)—An element is a “principal element” when its replacement value is more than 35% of the total value of the system of which it is an element. Element value is the price paid for the element by the manufacturer of the system, or by the system integrator. Total value is the normal international selling price to unrelated parties at the point of manufacture or consolidation of shipment.
Principal parties in interest.
Those persons in a transaction that receive the
primary benefit, monetary or otherwise, of the transaction. Generally, the principals in a transaction are the seller and the buyer. In most cases, the forwarding or other agent is not a principal party in interest.
Production.
(General Technology Note) (All Categories)—Means all production stages, such as: product engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly (mounting), inspection, testing, quality assurance.
Production equipment.
(MTCR context)—Tooling, templates, jigs, mandrels, moulds, dies, fixtures, alignment mechanisms, test equipment, other machinery and components therefor, limited to those specially designed or modified for “development” or for one or more phases of “production”.
Production Facilities.
(MTCR Context only). (Cat 7 and 9)—Means “production equipment” and specially designed “software” therefor integrated into installations for “development” or for one or more phases of “production”.
Program.
(Cat 1, 4, 6, and 7)—A sequence of instructions to carry out a process in, or convertible into, a form executable by an electronic computer.
Proof test.
(Cat 5)—On-line or off-line production screen testing that dynamically applies a prescribed tensile stress over a 0.5 to 3 m length of fiber at a running rate of 2 to 5 m/s while passing between capstans approximately 150 mm in diameter. The ambient temperature is a nominal 293 K (20 °C) and relative humidity 40%.

# Note:
Equivalent national standards for executing the “proof test” may be used.
Proscribed person.
A person who is prohibited from receiving the items at issue or participating in a transaction that is subject to the EAR without authorization under the EAR, such as persons on the Entity List or denied persons.
Publicly available encryption software.
See § 742.15(b) of the EAR.
Published.
See § 734.7 of the EAR.
Pulse compression.
(Cat 6)—The coding and processing of a radar signal pulse of long time duration to one of short time duration, while maintaining the benefits of high pulse energy.
Pulse duration.
(Cat 6)—Duration of a “laser” pulse is the time between the half-power points on the leading edge and trailing edge of an individual pulse.
Pulsed Laser.
(Cat 6)—A pulsed “laser” is defined as having a “pulse duration” that is less than or equal to 0.25 seconds.
Purchaser.
The person abroad who has entered into a transaction to purchase an item for delivery to the ultimate consignee. In most cases, the purchaser is not a bank, forwarding agent, or intermediary. The purchaser and ultimate consignee may be the same entity.
Pyrotechnic(s).
(Cat 1) Mixtures of solid or liquid fuels and oxidizers which, when ignited, undergo an energetic chemical reaction at a controlled rate intended to produce specific time delays, or quantities of heat, noise, smoke, visible light or infrared radiation. Pyrophorics are a subclass of pyrotechnics, which contain no oxidizers but ignite spontaneously on contact with air.
Quantum cryptography.
(Cat 5P2) A family of techniques for the establishment of a shared key for “cryptography” by measuring the quantum-mechanical properties of a physical system (including those physical properties explicitly governed by quantum optics, quantum field theory, or quantum electrodynamics).
RWA.
See Return Without Action.
Radar frequency agility.
(Cat 6)—Any technique that changes, in a pseudo-random sequence, the carrier frequency of a pulsed radar transmitter between pulses or between groups of pulses by an amount equal to or larger than the pulse bandwidth.
Radar spread spectrum.
(Cat 6)—Any modulation technique for spreading energy originating from a signal with a relatively narrow frequency band, over a much wider band of frequencies, by using random or pseudo-random coding.
Radiant sensitivity
(Cat 6)—Radiant sensitivity (mA/W) = 0.807 × (wavelength in nm) × 'Quantum Efficiency (QE)'.

# Technical Note:
'QE' is usually expressed as a percentage; however, for the purposes of this
formula 'QE' is expressed as a decimal number less than one, e.g., 78% is 0.78.
Range.
(Cat 8)—Half the maximum distance a submersible vehicle can cover.
Range. (MTCR context)
—The maximum distance that the specified rocket system or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth.

# Technical Notes:
a. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining “range”.
b. The “range” for both rocket systems and UAV systems will be determined independently of any external factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links or other external constraints.
c. For rocket systems, the “range” will be determined using the trajectory that maximizes “range”, assuming ICAO standard atmosphere with zero wind.
d. For UAV systems, the “range” will be determined for a one-way distance using the most fuel-efficient flight profile (e.g. cruise speed and altitude), assuming ICAO standard atmosphere with zero wind.
Readable or readability.
Readable and readability mean the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognized as complete words or numbers.
“Real-time Processing
”. (Cat 2, 4, and 6) The processing of data by a computer system providing a required level of service, as a function of available resources, within a guaranteed response time, regardless of the load of the system, when stimulated by an external event.
Reasons for Control.
Reasons for Control are: Anti-Terrorism (AT), Chemical
Biological Weapons (CB), Chemical Weapons Convention (CW), Crime Control (CC), Encryption Items (EI), Firearms Convention (FC), Missile Technology (MT), National Security (NS), Nuclear Nonproliferation (NP), Regional Stability (RS), Short Supply (SS), Significant Items (SI), Surreptitious Listening (SL) and United Nations sanctions (UN). Items controlled within a particular ECCN may be controlled for more than one reason.
Recoverable commodities and software.
As applied to encryption items, means any of the following:
(a) A stored data product containing a recovery feature that, when activated, allows recovery of the plaintext of encrypted data without the assistance of the end-user; or
(b) A product or system designed such that a network administrator or other authorized persons who are removed from the end-user can provide law enforcement access to plaintext without the knowledge or assistance of the end-user. This includes, for example, products or systems where plaintext exists and is accessible at intermediate points in a network or infrastructure system, enterprise-controlled recovery systems, and products which permit recovery of plaintext at the server where a system administrator controls or can provide recovery of plaintext across an enterprise.

# Note to this definition:
“Plaintext” indicates that data that is initially received by or presented to the recoverable product before encryption takes place.
Reexport.
See § 734.14 of the EAR.
Release.
See § 734.15 of the EAR.
Repeatability.
(Cat 7)—The closeness of agreement among repeated measurements of the same variable under the same operating conditions when changes in conditions or non-operating periods occur between measurements. (Reference: IEEE STD 528-2001 (one sigma standard deviation))
Repeatability.
(MTCR Context only) (Cat 7)—According to IEEE Standard for Inertial Sensor Terminology 528-2001 in the Definitions section paragraph 2.214 titled repeatability (gyro, accelerometer) as follows: “The closeness of agreement among repeated measurements of the same variable under the same operating conditions when changes in conditions or non-operating periods occur between measurements.”
Replacement license.
An authorization by the Bureau of Industry and Security revising the information, conditions, or riders stated on a license issued by BIS. See § 750.7 of the EAR.
Required.
(General Technology Note) —As applied to “technology” or “software,” refers to only that portion of “technology” or “software” which is
peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the controlled performance levels, characteristics or functions. Such “required” “technology” or “software” may be shared by different products. For example, assume product “X” is controlled on the CCL if it operates at or above 400 MHz and is not controlled if it operates below 400 MHz. If production technologies “A,” “B,” and “C” allow production at no more than 399 MHz, then technologies “A,” “B,” and “C” are not “required” to produce the controlled product “X”. If technologies “A,” “B,” “C,” “D,” and “E” are used together, a manufacturer can produce product “X” that operates at or above 400 MHz. In this example, technologies “D” and “E” are peculiarly responsible for making the controlled product and are thus “required” technology under the General Technology Note. (See the General Technology Note.)

# Note 1 to the definition of Required:
The ITAR and the EAR often divide within each set of regulations or between each set of regulations:
(a) Controls on parts, components, accessories, attachments, and software; and
(b) Controls on the end items, systems, equipment, or other items into which those parts, components, accessories, attachments, and software are to be installed or incorporated.

# Note 2 to the definition of Required:
The references to “characteristics” and “functions” are not limited to entries on the CCL that use specific technical parameters to describe the scope of what is controlled. The “characteristics” and “functions” of an item listed are, absent a specific regulatory definition, a standard dictionary's definition of the item. For example, ECCN 9A610.a controls military aircraft specially designed for a military use that are not enumerated in USML paragraph VIII(a). No performance level is identified in the entry, but the control characteristic of the aircraft is that it is specially designed “for military use.” Thus, any technology, regardless of significance, peculiar to making an aircraft “for military use” as opposed to, for example, an aircraft controlled under ECCN 9A991.a, would be technical data “required” for an aircraft specially designed for military use thus controlled under ECCN 9E610.

# Note 3 to the definition of Required:
Unclassified technology not specifically enumerated on the USML is “subject to the EAR” if it is “
required”
for the “development,” “production,” “use,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing (or other terms specified in ECCNs on the CCL that control “technology”) of a commodity or software that is subject to the EAR. Thus, for example, if unclassified technology not specifically enumerated on the USML is “required” for the development or production of a 9A610.x aircraft component that is to be integrated or installed in a USML VIII(a) aircraft, then the “technology” is controlled under ECCN 9E610, not USML VIII(i). Conversely, technical data directly related to, for example, the development or production of a component subject to the ITAR does not become subject to the EAR merely because it is developed or produced with equipment subject to the EAR.
Return Without Action (RWA).
An application may be RWA'd for one of the following reasons:
(a) The applicant has requested the application be returned;
(b) A License Exception applies;
(c) The items are not under Department of Commerce jurisdiction;
(d) Required documentation has not been submitted with the application; or
(e) The applicant cannot be reached after several attempts to request additional information necessary for processing of the application.
Robot.
(Cat 2 and 8)—A manipulation mechanism, which may be of the continuous path or of the point-to-point variety, may use “sensors”, and has all the following characteristics:
(a) Is multifunctional;
(b) Is capable of positioning or orienting material, parts, tools or special devices through variable movements in a three dimensional space;
(c) Incorporates three or more closed or open loop servo-devices that may include stepping motors; and
(d) Has “user-accessible programmability” by means of teach/playback method or by means of an electronic computer that may be a programmable logic controller, i.e., without mechanical intervention.

# Note:
This definition does not include the following devices:
(a) Manipulation mechanisms that are only manually/teleoperator controllable;
(b) Fixed sequence manipulation mechanisms that are automated moving devices, operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is mechanically limited by fixed stops, such as pins or cams. The sequence of motions and
the selection of paths or angles are not variable or changeable by mechanical, electronic or electrical means;
(c) Mechanically controlled variable sequence manipulation mechanisms that are automated moving devices, operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is mechanically limited by fixed, but adjustable stops, such as pins or cams. The sequence of motions and the selection of paths or angles are variable within the fixed program pattern. Variations or modifications of the program pattern (e.g., changes of pins or exchanges of cams) in one or more motion axes are accomplished only through mechanical operations;
(d) Non-servo-controlled variable sequence manipulation mechanisms that are automated moving devices, operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is variable, but the sequence proceeds only by the binary signal from mechanically fixed electrical binary devices or adjustable stops;
(e) Stacker cranes defined as Cartesian coordinate manipulator systems manufactured as an integral part of a vertical array of storage bins and designed to access the contents of those bins for storage or retrieval.
Routed export transaction.
A transaction where the foreign principal party in interest authorizes a U.S. forwarding or other agent to facilitate export of items from the United States.
Run-out.
(out-of-true running) (Cat 2)—Radial displacement in one revolution of the main spindle measured in a plane perpendicular to the spindle axis at a point on the external or internal revolving surface to be tested (Ref.: ISO 230 Part 1-1986, paragraph 5.61).
SHPL.
(Cat 6) is equivalent to “Super High Power Laser”, see definition for “super high power laser.”
SNEC.
See Subgroup on Nuclear Export Coordination.
Sample rate.
(Cat 3) For an Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC) the maximum number of samples that are measured at the analog input over a period of one second, except for oversampling ADCs. For oversampling ADCs the “sample rate” is taken to be its output word rate. “Sample rate” may also be referred to as sampling rate, usually specified in Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS) or Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS), or conversion rate, usually specified in Hertz (Hz).
Satellite navigation system
(Cat 5P2, 7)—A system consisting of ground stations, a constellation of satellites, and receivers, that enables receiver locations to be calculated on the basis of signals received from the satellites. It includes Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) and Regional Navigation Satellite Systems (RNSS).
Scale factor.
(gyro or accelerometer) (Cat 7)—The ratio of change in output to a change in the input intended to be measured. Scale factor is generally evaluated as the slope of the straight line that can be fitted by the method of least squares to input-output data obtained by varying the input cyclically over the input range.
Schedule B numbers.
The commodity numbers appearing in the current edition of the Bureau of the Census publication, Schedule B Statistical Classification of Domestic and Foreign Commodities Exported from the United States. (See part 758 of the EAR for information on use of Schedule B numbers.)
Shield.
Chaired by the Department of State, the Shield primarily reviews applications involving items controlled for Chemical and Biological Weapons (CBW) reasons. The Shield also reviews applications involving items not controlled for CBW reasons, but destined for a country and/or end-use/end-user of concern. See § 750.4 of the EAR.
Signal analyzers.
(Cat 3)—Apparatus capable of measuring and displaying basic properties of the single-frequency components of multi-frequency signals.
Signal processing.
(Cat 3, 4, 5, and 6)—The processing of externally derived information-bearing signals by algorithms such as time compression, filtering, extraction, selection, correlation, convolution or transformations between domains (e.g., fast Fourier transform or Walsh transform).
Single shipment.
All items moving at the same time from one exporter to one consignee or intermediate consignee on the same exporting carrier, even if these items will be forwarded to one or more ultimate consignees. Items being transported in this manner shall be treated as a single shipment even if the items represent more than one order or are in separate containers.
Software.
(Cat: all)—A collection of one or more “programs” or “microprograms” fixed in any tangible medium of expression.
Source code (or source language).
(Cat 1, 4, 5P2, 6, 7, and 9)—A convenient expression of one or more processes that may be turned by a programming system into equipment executable form (“object code” (or object language)).
“Space-qualified”.
(Cat 3, 6, and 7) Designed, manufactured, or qualified through successful testing, for operation at altitudes greater than 100 km above the surface of the Earth.

# Note 1:
A determination that a specific item is “space-qualified” by virtue of testing does not mean that other items in the same production run or model series are “space-qualified” if not individually tested.

# Note 2:
The terms 'designed' and 'manufactured' in this definition are synonymous with “specially designed.” Thus, for example, an item that is “specially designed” for a spacecraft is deemed to be 'designed' or 'manufactured' for operation at altitudes greater than 100 km and an item that is not “specially designed” for a spacecraft is not deemed to have been so 'designed' or 'manufactured.'
Spacecraft.
(Cat 9)—Active and passive satellites and space probes.
Spacecraft bus.
(Cat 9) Equipment that provides the support infrastructure of the “spacecraft” and location for the “spacecraft payload”.
Spacecraft payload.
(Cat 9) Equipment, attached to the “spacecraft bus”, designed to perform a mission in space (
e.g.,
communications, observation, science).
Specially Designated National (SDN).
Any person who is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be a specially designated national for any reason under regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (see 31 CFR parts 500 through 590).
Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT).
Any person who is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be a specially designated terrorist under notices or regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (see 31 CFR chapter V).
Specially designed.
When applying this definition, follow this sequential analysis set forth below. (For additional guidance on the order of review of “specially designed,” including how the review of the term relates to the larger CCL, see supplement no. 4 to Part 774 of the EAR—Commerce Control List Order of Review.)
(a) Except for items described in (b), an “item” is “specially designed” if it:
(1) As a result of “development” has properties peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the performance levels, characteristics, or functions in the relevant ECCN or U.S. Munitions List (USML) paragraph;
or
(2) Is a “part,” “component,” “accessory,” “attachment,” or “software” for use in or with a commodity or defense article ‘enumerated’ or otherwise described on the CCL or the USML.
(b) A “part,” “component,” “accessory,” “attachment,” or “software” that would be
controlled
by paragraph (a) is not “specially designed” if it:
(1) Has been identified to be in an ECCN paragraph that does not contain “specially designed” as a control parameter or as an EAR99 item in a commodity jurisdiction (CJ) determination or interagency-cleared commodity classification (CCATS) pursuant to § 748.3(e);
(2) Is, regardless of ‘form’ or ‘fit,’ a fastener (e.g., screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, solder;
(3) Has the same function, performance capabilities, and the same or ‘equivalent’ form and fit, as a commodity or software used in or with an item that:
(i) Is or was in “production” (
i.e.,
not in “development”);
and
(ii) Is either not ‘enumerated’ on the CCL or USML, or is described in an ECCN controlled only for Anti-Terrorism (AT) reasons;
(4) Was or is being developed with “knowledge” that it would be for use in or with commodities or software (i) described in an ECCN
and
(ii) also commodities or software either not ‘enumerated’ on the CCL or the USML (e.g., EAR99 commodities or software) or commodities or software described in an ECCN controlled only for Anti-Terrorism (AT) reasons;
(5) Was or is being developed as a general purpose commodity or software, i.e., with no “knowledge” for use in or with a particular commodity (e.g., an F/A-18 or HMMWV) or type of commodity (e.g., an aircraft or machine tool);
or
(6) Was or is being developed with “knowledge” that it would be for use in or with commodities or software described (i) in an ECCN controlled for AT-only reasons and also EAR99 commodities or software; or (ii) exclusively for use in or with EAR99 commodities or software.

# Note 1:
‘Enumerated’ refers to any item (i) on either the USML or CCL not controlled in a ‘catch-all’ paragraph and (ii) when on the CCL, controlled by an ECCN for more than Anti-Terrorism (AT) reasons only. An example of an ‘enumerated’ ECCN is 2A226, which controls valves with the following three characteristics: a “nominal size” of 5 mm or greater; having a bellows seal;
and
wholly made of or lined with aluminum, aluminum alloy, nickel, or nickel alloy containing more than 60% nickel by weight. The CCL also contains notes excluding from control “parts” and “components” “specially designed” for uncontrolled items. Such uncontrolled items are merely ‘described’ and are not ‘enumerated.’ Note 2 to ECCN 1A002 is an example of items excluded from control based on being “specially designed” for a ‘described’ item. Commodities or software in an ECCN controlled only for AT reasons are other examples of items ‘described’ on the CCL. ECCN 2B996, which controls dimensional inspection or measuring systems or equipment not controlled by 2B006, is an example of a commodity ‘described’ in an ECCN controlled only for AT reasons. For purposes of “specially designed,” ECCNs 0B505.c, 0B999, 0D999, 1B999, 1C992, 1C995, 1C997, 1C999, 3A991, 4A994, 5A992 (except for .z), 5D992 (except for .z), 6A998 (except for .b), and 9A991 are treated as ECCNs controlled exclusively for AT reasons.

# Note 2:
A ‘catch-all’ paragraph is one that does not refer to specific types of “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” or “attachments” but rather controls non-specific “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” or “attachments” because they were “specially designed” for an enumerated item. For example, ECCN paragraph 9A610.x is a catch-all, because it controls “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for military aircraft, but does not identify specific types of “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” or “attachments” within its control. Another example of a ‘catch-all’ is the heading of 7A102, which controls “specially designed” components for the gyros enumerated in 7A102, but does not identify the specific types of “components” within its control.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
Items that as a result of “development” have properties peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the performance levels, ‘functions’ or characteristics in a relevant ECCN paragraph may have properties shared by different products. For example, ECCN 1A007 controls equipment and devices, specially designed to initiate charges and devices containing energetic materials, by electrical means. An example of equipment not meeting the peculiarly responsible standard under paragraph (a)(1) is a garage door opener, that as a result of “development” has properties that enable the garage door opener to send an encoded signal to another piece of equipment to perform an action (i.e., the opening of a garage door). The garage door opener is not “specially designed” for purposes of 1A007 because although the garage door opener could be used to send a signal by electrical means to charges or devices containing energetic materials, the garage door opener does not have properties peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the performance levels, ‘functions’ or characteristics in 1A007. For example, the garage door opener is designed to only perform at a limited range and the level of encoding is not as advanced as the encoding usually required in equipment and devices used to initiate charges and devices containing energetic materials, by electrical means. Conversely, another piece of equipment that, as a result of “development,” has the properties (e.g., sending a signal at a longer range, having signals with advanced encoding to prevent interference, and having signals that are specific to detonating blasting caps) needed for equipment used to initiate charges and devices containing energetic materials, would be peculiarly responsible because the equipment has a direct and proximate causal relationship that is central or special for achieving or exceeding the performance levels, ‘functions’ or characteristics identified in 1A007.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(3):
Commodities in “production” that are subsequently subject to “development” activities, such as those that would result in enhancements or improvements only in the reliability or maintainability of the commodity (e.g., an increased mean time between failure (MTBF)), including those pertaining to quality improvements, cost reductions, or feature enhancements, remain in “production.” However, any new models or versions of such commodities developed from such efforts that change the basic performance or capability of the commodity are in “development” until and unless they enter into “production.”

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# )(3):
With respect to a commodity, ‘equivalent’ means that its form has been modified solely for ‘fit’ purposes.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
b

# )(3):
The ‘form’ of a commodity is defined by its configuration (including the geometrically measured configuration), material, and material properties that uniquely characterize it. The ‘fit’
of a commodity is defined by its ability to physically interface or interconnect with or become an integral part of another item. The ‘function’ of the item is the action or actions it is designed to perform. ‘Performance capability’ is the measure of a commodity's effectiveness to perform a designated function in a given environment (e.g., measured in terms of speed, durability, reliability, pressure, accuracy, efficiency). For software, ‘form’ means the design, logic flow, and algorithms. ‘Fit’ means the ability to interface or connect with an item subject to the EAR. The ‘function’ means the action or actions it performs directly to an item subject to the EAR or as a stand-alone application. ‘Performance capability’ means the measure of software's effectiveness to perform a designated function.

# Note to paragraphs (
b

# )(3) and (
b

# )(4):
ECCNs controlled for AT-only reasons that use “specially designed” are eligible for paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4). However, the criteria for release under (b)(3) or (b)(4) must be met by another ECCN controlled for AT-only reasons or an EAR99 item in addition to the AT-only ECCN being reviewed for release from “specially designed.” For example, if a single gasket is used in ECCN 9A990 tractors (9A990 includes a control on “specially designed” “parts”) and also pick-up trucks designated as EAR99 that are in “production”, the single gasket would be released from “specially designed” on the basis of paragraph (b)(3). Or if the single gasket is or was used in 9A990 tractors and also 9A991.b aircraft (another AT-only controlled ECCN), that are in “production,” the gasket would be released from “specially designed” on the basis of paragraph (b)(3). Alternatively, if the single gasket is or was only used in ECCN 9A990 tractors that are in “production,” then paragraph (b)(3) would not be available. This same concept applies for paragraph (b)(4).

# Note to paragraphs (
b

# )(4), (
b

# )(5) and (
b

# )(6):
For a commodity or software to be not “specially designed” on the basis of paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5)
or
(b)(6), documents contemporaneous with its “development,” in their totality, must establish the elements of paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5)
or
(b)(6). Such documents may include concept design information, marketing plans, declarations in patent applications, or contracts. Absent such documents, the “commodity” may not be excluded from being “specially designed” by paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5)
or
(b)(6).
“Specific modulus”
. (Cat 1)—Young's modulus in pascals, equivalent to N/m
2
, divided by specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296 ±2) K ((23 ±2) °C) and a relative humidity of (50 ±5)%.
“Specific tensile strength”
. (Cat 1)—Ultimate tensile strength in pascals, equivalent to N/m
2
, divided by specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296 ±2) K ((23 ±2) °C) and relative humidity of (50 ±5)%.
Spectral efficiency.
(Cat 5)—A figure of merit parametrized to characterize the efficiency of transmission system that uses complex modulation schemes such as QAM (quadrature amplitude modulation), Trellis coding, QSPK (Q-phased shift key), etc. It is defined as follows:
ER25MR96.013
Spinning mass gyros.
(Cat 7) “Spinning mass gyros” are gyros which use a continually rotating mass to sense angular motion.
Spread spectrum.
(Cat 5)—The technique whereby energy in a relatively narrow-band communication channel is spread over a much wider energy spectrum.
Spread spectrum radar.
(Cat 6)—(see “Radar spread spectrum”)
Stability
(Cat 7) Standard deviation (1 sigma) of the variation of a particular parameter from its calibrated value measured under stable temperature conditions. This can be expressed as a function of time.

# Note:
For gyroscopes and accelerometers, “stability” can be estimated by determining the Allan variance noise-analysis value at the integration period (i.e., sample time) consistent with the stated measurement period, which may include extrapolating the Allan variance noise analysis beyond the instability point into the rate/acceleration random walk or rate/acceleration ramp regions to an integration period consistent with the stated measurement period (Reference: IEEE Std. 952-1997 [R2008] or IEEE Std 1293-1998 [R2008]).
Standards-related activity.
See § 734.10 of the EAR.
Steady state mode.
(Cat 9) The term “steady state mode” defines engine operation conditions, where the engine parameters, such as thrust/power, rpm and others, have no appreciable fluctuations, when the ambient air temperature and pressure at the engine inlet are constant.
Stored program controlled.
(Cat 2, 3, and 5)—A control using instructions stored in an electronic storage that a processor can execute in order to direct the performance of predetermined functions.

# Note:
Equipment may be “stored program controlled” whether the electronic storage is internal or external to the equipment.
Subgroup on Nuclear Export Coordination (SNEC).
Chaired by the Department of State, the SNEC primarily reviews applications involving items controlled for nuclear nonproliferation (NP) reasons. The SNEC also reviews applications involving items not controlled for NP reasons, but destined for a country and/or end-use/end-user of NP concern.
Subject to the EAR.
A term used in the EAR to describe those commodities, software, technology, and activities over which the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) exercises regulatory jurisdiction under the EAR (See § 734.2(a) of the EAR).
Subject to the ITAR.
A term used in the EAR to describe those commodities, software, technology (e.g., technical data) and defense services over which the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) exercises regulatory jurisdiction under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
“
Sub-orbital craft
”. (Cat 9) A craft having an enclosure designed for the transport of people or cargo, which is designed to:
(1) Operate above the stratosphere;
(2) Perform a non-orbital trajectory;
and
(3) Land back on Earth with the people or cargo intact.
Substrate.
(Cat 3)—A sheet of base material with or without an interconnection pattern and on which or within which “discrete components” or integrated circuits or both can be located.

# Note:
“Discrete component”: a separately packaged “circuit element” with its own external connections.
Substrate blanks.
(Cat 3 and 6)—Monolithic compounds with dimensions suitable for the production of optical elements such as mirrors or optical windows.
Super High Power Laser.
(SHPL) (Cat 6)—A “laser” capable of delivering (the total or any portion of) the output energy exceeding 1 kJ within 50 ms or having an average or CW power exceeding 20 kW.
Superalloy.
(Cat 2 and 9) Nickel, cobalt, or iron base alloys having a stress rupture life greater than 1,000 hours at 400 MPa and an ultimate tensile strength greater than 850 MPa, at 922 K (649 °C) or higher.
Supercomputer.
(734, 744) A computing “system” having a collective maximum theoretical compute capacity of 100 or more double-precision (64-bit) petaflops or 200 or more single-precision (32-bit) petaflops within a 41,600 ft
3
or smaller envelope.

# Note 1 to “Supercomputer”:
The 41,600 ft
3
envelope corresponds, for example, to a 4x4x6.5 ft rack size and therefore 6,400 ft
2
of floor space. The envelope may include empty floor space between racks as well as adjacent floors for multi-floor systems.

# Note 2 to “Supercomputer”:
Typically, a 'supercomputer' is a high-performance multi-rack system having thousands of closely coupled compute cores connected in parallel with networking technology and having a high peak power capacity requiring cooling elements. They are used for computationally intensive tasks including scientific and engineering work. Supercomputers may include shared memory, distributed memory, or a combination of both.
Superconductive.
(Cat 1, 3, 5P1, 6, and 8)—Materials, i.e., metals, alloys, or compounds that can lose all electrical resistance, i.e., that can attain infinite electrical conductivity and carry very large electrical currents without Joule heating.

# Note:
The “superconductive” state of a material is individually characterized by a “critical temperature”, a critical magnetic field that is a function of temperature, and a critical current density that is a function of both magnetic field and temperature.
Superplastic forming.
(Cat 1 and 2)—A deformation process using heat for metals that are normally characterized
by low elongation (less than 20%) at the breaking point as determined at room temperature by conventional tensile strength testing, in order to achieve elongations during processing that are at least 2 times those values.
Symmetric algorithm.
(Cat 5, Part II) A cryptographic algorithm using an identical key for both encryption and decryption. A common use of “symmetric algorithms” is confidentiality of data.
System.
This is any combination of “end items,” “equipment,” “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” “attachments,” firmware, or “software” that operate together to perform a function.

# Note:
The industrial standards established by INCOSE and NASA provide examples for when commodities and software operate together to perform a function as a system. References to these standards are included in this note to provide additional examples for when commodities or software operate together to perform a function as a system. See the INCOSE standards for what constitutes a system at (
http://g2sebok.incose.org/app/mss/asset.cfm?ID=INCOSE%20G2SEBOK%202.00
ST=F
), and in the (INCOSE SE Handbook v3.1 2007; ISO/IEC 15288:2008). Also see the NASA standards for examples of what constitutes a system in the (NASA SE Handbook SP-2007-6105 Rev 1).
Technology.
Technology
means:
Information necessary for the “development,” “production,” “use,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing (or other terms specified in ECCNs on the CCL that control “technology”) of an item.
N.B.:
Controlled “technology” is defined in the General Technology Note and in the Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR).

# Note 1 to definition of Technology:
“Technology” may be in any tangible or intangible form, such as written or oral communications, blueprints, drawings, photographs, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, computer-aided design files, manuals or documentation, electronic media or information revealed through visual inspection;

# Note 2 to definition of Technology:
The modification of the design of an existing item creates a new item and technology for the modified design is technology for the development or production of the new item.
Terminal interface equipment.
(Cat 4)—Equipment at which information enters or leaves the telecommunication systems, e.g., telephone, data device, computer, facsimile device.
“
Three dimensional integrated circuit”.
(Cat 3) A collection of semiconductor dies or active device layers, integrated together, and having through semiconductor via connections passing completely through an interposer, substrate, die or layer to establish interconnections between the device layers. An interposer is an interface that enables electrical connections.
Tilting spindle.
(Cat 2)—A tool-handling spindle that alters, during the machining process, the angular position of its center line with respect to any other axis.
Time constant.
(Cat 6)—The time taken from the application of a light stimulus for the current increment to reach a value of 1-1/e times the final value (i.e., 63% of the final value).
“Tip shroud” (Cat 9)—A stationary ring component (solid or segmented) attached to the inner surface of the engine turbine casing or a feature at the outer tip of the turbine blade, which primarily provides a gas seal between the stationary and rotating components.
Total control of flight.
(Cat 7) means an automated control of “aircraft” state variables and flight path to meet mission objectives responding to real time changes in data regarding objectives, hazards or other “aircraft.”
Total digital transfer rate.
(Cat 5)—The number of bits, including line coding, overhead and so forth per unit time passing between corresponding equipment in a digital transmission system. (See also “digital transfer rate”.)
Toxins.
(Cat 1 and 2) means toxins in the form of deliberately isolated preparations or mixtures, no matter how produced, other than toxins present as contaminants of other materials such as pathological specimens, crops, foodstuffs or seed stocks of “microorganisms.”
Transfer.
A shipment, transmission, or release of items subject to the EAR either within the United States or outside the United States. For
In-country transfer/Transfer (in-country)
, see § 734.16 of the EAR.

# Note to definition of Transfer:
This definition of “transfer” does not apply to § 750.10 of the EAR or Supplement No. 8 to part 760 of the EAR. The term “transfer” may also be included on licenses issued by BIS. In that regard, the changes that can be made to a BIS license are the non-material changes described in § 750.7(c) of the EAR. Any other change to a BIS license without authorization is a violation of the EAR. See §§ 750.7(c) and 764.2(e) of the EAR.
Tunable.
(Cat 6)—The ability of a “laser” to produce a continuous output at all wavelengths over a range of several “laser” transitions. A line selectable “laser” produces discrete wavelengths within one “laser” transition and is not considered “tunable”.
U.S. Person.
(a) For purposes of §§ 732.3(j), 736.2(b)(7), 740.21(e)(1), 744.6, 744.10, 744.11, 744.12, 744.13, 744.14, and 745.2(a)(1) of the EAR, the term U.S. person includes:
(1) Any individual who is a citizen of the United States, a permanent resident alien of the United States, or a protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3);
(2) Any juridical person organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including foreign branches; and
(3) Any person in the United States.
(b) See also §§ 740.9, 740.14, and 740.21(f)(2) and parts 746 and 760 of the EAR for definitions of “U.S. person” that are specific to those sections and parts.
U.S. subsidiary.
As applied to encryption items, means
(a) A foreign branch of a U.S. company; or
(b) A foreign subsidiary or entity of a U.S. entity in which:
(1) The U.S. entity beneficially owns or controls (whether directly or indirectly) 25 percent or more of the voting securities of the foreign subsidiary or entity, if no other persons owns or controls (whether directly or indirectly) an equal or larger percentage; or
(2) The foreign entity is operated by the U.S. entity pursuant to the provisions of an exclusive management contract; or
(3) A majority of the members of the board of directors of the foreign subsidiary or entity also are members of the comparable governing body of the U.S. entity; or
(4) The U.S. entity has the authority to appoint the majority of the members of the board of directors of the foreign subsidiary or entity; or
(5) The U.S. entity has the authority to appoint the chief operating officer of the foreign subsidiary or entity.
Ultimate consignee.
The principal party in interest located abroad who receives the exported or reexported items. The ultimate consignee is not a forwarding agent or other intermediary, but may be the end-user.
Unidirectional positioning repeatability.
(Cat 2) The smaller of values R↑ and R↓ (forward and backward), as defined by 3.21 of ISO 230-2:2014 or national equivalents, of an individual machine tool axis.
United Kingdom (or UK) airline.
Any citizen of the United Kingdom who is authorized by the Government of the United Kingdom to engage in business as an airline. For purposes of this definition, a United Kingdom citizen is:
(1) A natural person who is a citizen of the United Kingdom; or
(2) A partnership of which each member is such an individual; or
(3) A United Kingdom firm incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of the United Kingdom or any country or territory that comprises the United Kingdom, having a total foreign stock interest not greater than 40 percent, and having the Chairman or Acting Chairman and at least two-thirds of the Directors thereof United Kingdom citizens.
United States.
Unless otherwise stated, the 50 States, including offshore areas within their jurisdiction pursuant to section 3 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1311), the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and all territories, dependencies, and possessions of the United States, including foreign trade zones established pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 81A-81U, and also including the outer continental shelf, as defined in section 2(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(a)).
United States airline.
Any citizen of the United States who is authorized by the U.S. Government to engage in business as an airline. For purposes of this definition, a U.S. citizen is:
(a) An individual who is a citizen of the United States or one of its possessions; or
(b) A partnership of which each member is such an individual; or
(c) A corporation or association created or organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, of which the president and two-thirds of the board of directors and other managing officers thereof are such individuals and in which at least 75 percent of the voting interest is owned or controlled by persons who are citizens of the United States or of one of its possessions.
“
Unmanned aerial vehicle” (“UAV”).
(Cat 9) Any “aircraft” capable of initiating flight and sustaining controlled flight and navigation without any human presence on board.

# Note to definition of “Unmanned aerial vehicle” (“UAV”):
For the purposes of § 744.3 of the EAR, unmanned air vehicles, which are the same as “unmanned aerial vehicles,” include, but are not limited to, cruise missiles, target drones and reconnaissance drones.
“Usable in”, “usable for”, “usable as” or “Capable of”.
(MTCR context)—Equipment, parts, components, materials or “software” which are suitable for a particular purpose. There is no need for the equipment, parts, components, materials or “software” to have been configured, modified or specified for the particular purpose. For example, any military specification memory circuit would be “capable of” operation in a guidance system.
Use.
(All categories and General Technology Note)—Operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul and refurbishing.

# Note:
If an ECCN specifies one or more of the six elements of “use” in the heading or control text, only those elements specified are classified under that ECCN.
User-accessible programmability.
(Cat 6)—The facility allowing a user to insert, modify, or replace “programs” by means other than:
(a) A physical change in wiring or interconnections; or
(b) The setting of function controls including entry of parameters.
Utilization facility.
(a) As defined by 10 CFR 110.2 of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regulations, utilization facility means a nuclear reactor, other than one that is a production facility, any of the following major components of a nuclear reactor: Pressure vessels designed to contain the core of a nuclear reactor, other than one that is a production facility, and the following major components of a nuclear reactor:
(1) Primary coolant pumps;
(2) Fuel charging or discharging machines; and
(3) Control rods.
(b) Utilization facility does not include the steam turbine generator portion of a nuclear power plant.
Vacuum electronic devices
(Cat 3) Electronic devices based on the interaction of an electron beam with an electromagnetic wave propagating in a vacuum circuit or interacting with radio-frequency vacuum cavity resonators. “Vacuum electronic devices” include klystrons, travelling-wave tubes, and their derivatives.
Vector Rate.
(Cat 4)—See: “Two dimensional Vector Rate”; “Three dimensional Vector Rate”.
Vulnerability disclosure.
(§ 740.22, Cat 4) means the process of identifying, reporting, or communicating a vulnerability to, or analyzing a vulnerability with, individuals or organizations responsible for conducting or coordinating remediation for the purpose of resolving the vulnerability.
You.
Any person, including a natural person, including a citizen of the United States or any foreign country; any firm; any government, government agency, government department, or government commission; any labor union; any fraternal or social organization; and any other association or organization whether or not organized for profit.
[61 FR 12925, Mar. 25, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 772.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 774

# PART 774—THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
Sec.
774.1
Introduction.
774.2
[Reserved]
Supplement No. 1 to Part 774—The Commerce Control List
Supplement No. 2 to Part 774—General Technology and Software Notes
Supplement No. 3 to Part 774—Statement of Understanding
Supplement No. 4 to Part 774—Commerce Control List Order of Review
Supplement No. 5 to Part 774—Items Classified Under ECCNS 0A521, 0B521, 0C521, 0D521 and 0E521
Supplement No. 6 to Part 774—Sensitive List
Supplement No. 7 to Part 774—Very Sensitive List

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
10 U.S.C. 8720; 10 U.S.C. 8730(e); 22 U.S.C. 287c, 22 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 6004; 42 U.S.C. 2139a; 15 U.S.C. 1824; 50 U.S.C. 4305; 22 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 7210; E.O. 13026, 61 FR 58767, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 228; E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783.

# Source:
61 FR 12937, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 774.1
Introduction.
(a)
Scope of the control list.
In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) maintains the Commerce Control List (CCL) that includes “items”—i.e., “commodities,” “software,” and “technology”—subject to the authority of BIS. The CCL does not include items exclusively controlled for export by another department or agency of the U.S. Government, though in instances where other agencies administer controls over related items, entries in the CCL may contain a reference to such controls. In addition, those items “subject to the EAR” but not identified on the CCL are identified by the designator “EAR99.” See § 734.2(a) of the EAR for items that are “subject to the EAR.” EAR Part 738 contains an explanation of the organization of the CCL and its relationship to the Country Chart.
(b)
ECCN cross-references for items subject to exclusive jurisdiction of another agency.
(1) Prior to October 15, 2013, the CCL contained certain ECCNs that were only included as cross references to items subject to the export control regulations administered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(2) ECCNs formerly listed on the CCL that, as of October 15, 2013 were subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission at 10 CFR part 110 are: 0A001, 0B001, 0B002, 0B003, 0B004, 0B005, 0B006, 0C001, 0C002, 0C004, 0C005, 0C006, 0C201 and 1C012.
(3) The following multilateral export control regime reference is provided, as an additional point of historical reference: 0C201—INFCIRC 254 Part 1, 5.3.1(b).

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
ECCNs 0D001 and 0E001 are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). These ECCNs are retained on the CCL as cross references to the ITAR, although the former cross references to export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110) for ECCN 0D001, and to the Department of Energy (see 10 CFR part 810) for 0E001 were removed from the Control(s) paragraph in the License Requirements section of these two ECCNs and added as a more general jurisdictional cross reference in a heading note added to these two ECCNs as of June 5, 2014.
(c)
Where to find the CCL?
The CCL is contained in supplement no. 1 to this part, and supplement no. 2 to this part contains the General Technology and Software Notes relevant to entries contained in the CCL.
(d)
Conventions related to the use of quotation marks on the CCL.
The use of double quotation marks on the CCL is intended to be an aid to alert you to terms used on the CCL that are defined in part 772 (Definitions of Terms), or for purposes of ECCNs, where a definition is provided in the “related definitions” paragraph in the License Requirements section of ECCNs or sometimes in Notes and Technical Notes for particular ECCNs and that definition is specific to that particular ECCN. In this sense the quotes are helpful both in the use of single and double quotes, but a good compliance practice is to familiarize yourself with the defined terms in part 772, and when reviewing a control parameter on the CCL that uses a term that is not in quotes to be aware it may be defined in part 772. It is also a useful compliance practice to review the “Related Definitions” paragraph and Notes and Technical Notes
to determine if the term is defined for purposes of a particular ECCN.
(1)
Use of double quotes.
If a term on the CCL uses double quotes it means there is a defined term in part 772. However, the absence of double quotes does not mean that a term used on the CCL is not defined in part 772. Because the CCL includes many terms that are defined in part 772, BIS's practice is to use double quotes for certain key terms and to use double quotes when needed for consistency with multilateral export control regime based entries, such as many derived from control lists, in particular for the Wassenaar Arrangement that also uses the double quotes convention. However, because of the large number of defined terms used on the CCL and a desire to avoid hindering readability by placing quotes around too many words used in particular ECCNs, BIS's practice is to not add double quotes around certain terms, such as items and commodities. This convention also applies to the use of double quotes within the Definition of Terms section under part 772.
(2)
Use of single quotes.
The CCL also includes a convention regarding the use of single quotes. Single quotes on the CCL identify a term as a defined term in the context of a particular ECCN. This convention also applies to the use of single quotes within the Definition of Terms section under part 772.
(e)
Chemicals identified by Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) number.
In some instances chemicals are listed by name and CAS number. The list applies to chemicals of the same structural formula (including hydrates) regardless of name or CAS number. CAS numbers are shown to assist in identifying a particular chemical or mixture, irrespective of nomenclature. CAS numbers cannot be used as unique identifiers because some forms of the listed chemical have different CAS numbers, and mixtures containing a listed chemical may also have different CAS numbers.
[78 FR 61903, Oct. 4, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 32627, June 5, 2014; 81 FR 64679, Sept. 20, 2016]
§ 774.2
[Reserved]
Pt. 774, Supp. No. 1

# Supplement No. 1 to Part 774—The Commerce Control List

# Category 0—Nuclear Materials, Facilities, and Equipment [and Miscellaneous Items]

# A. “End Items,” “Equipment,” “Accessories,” “Attachments,” “Parts,” “Components,” and “Systems”
0A002 Power generating or propulsion equipment “specially designed” for use with space, marine or mobile “nuclear reactors”. (These items are “subject to the ITAR.” See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
0A501 Firearms (except 0A502 shotguns, 0A506 semi-automatic rifles, 0A507 semi-automatic pistols, and 0A508 semi-automatic shotguns) and related commodities (except semi-automatic related commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A509 for ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, or 0A508) as follows (see List of Items controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except 0A501.y
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry except 0A501.y
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry except 0A501.y
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry except 0A501.y
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
License Requirement Note:
In addition to using the Commerce Country Chart to determine license requirements, a license is required for exports and reexports of ECCN 0A501.y.7 firearms to the People's Republic of China.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$500 for 0A501.c, .d, and .x.
$500 for 0A501.c, .d, .e, and .x if the ultimate destination is Canada.
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in this entry.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for firearms that are fully automatic, and certain related parts, components, accessories, and attachments (including magazines with a capacity of greater than 50
rounds). (2) See ECCN 0A506 for semi-automatic rifles. (3) See ECCN 0A507 for semi-automatic pistols. (4) See ECCN 0A508 for semi-automatic shotguns and ECCN 0A502 for certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (5) See ECCN 0A509 for enumerated or otherwise described “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, and 0A508. (6) See .d, .x, and .y of this entry for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A506 and 0A507, or 0A508. (7) See ECCN 0A502 for non-automatic shotguns and their “parts” and “components” that are subject to the EAR and for certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (8) See ECCN 0A504 and USML Category XII for controls on optical sighting devices.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic firearms equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less.
Note 1 to paragraph 0A501.a:
'Combination pistols' are controlled under ECCN 0A501.a. A 'combination pistol' (a.k.a., a combination gun) has at least one rifled barrel and at least one smoothbore barrel (generally a shotgun style barrel).
Note 2 to paragraph 0A501.a:
Semi-automatic firearms
equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less
are controlled under ECCNs 0A506 and 0A507.
Technical Note to 0A501.a:
Firearms described in 0A501.a include those chambered for the .50 BMG cartridge.
b. Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic rifles, carbines, revolvers or pistols with a caliber greater than .50 inches (12.7 mm) but less than or equal to .72 inches (18.0 mm).
c. The following types of “parts” and “components” if “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry or ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507, or USML Category I (unless otherwise enumerated or elsewhere specified on the USML or controlled under ECCN 0A509): Barrels, cylinders, barrel extensions, mounting blocks (trunnions), bolts, bolt carriers, operating rods, gas pistons, trigger housings, triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors, pistol grips that contain fire control “parts” or “components” (
e.g.,
triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors) and buttstocks that contain fire control “parts” or “components.”
Technical Note to 0A501.c:
Barrel blanks that have reached a stage in manufacturing in which they are either chambered or rifled are controlled by 0A501.c.
d. Detachable magazines with a capacity of 17 to 50 rounds “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry or controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507.
Note 3 to paragraph 0A501.d:
Magazines with a capacity of 16 rounds or less are controlled under 0A501.x; for magazines with a capacity greater than 50 rounds, see USML Category I.
e. Receivers (frames) and “complete breech mechanisms,” including castings, forgings, stampings, or machined items thereof, “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry.
Note 4 to 0A501.e:
Frames (receivers) under 0A501.e refers to any “part” or “component” of the firearm that has or is customarily marked with a serial number when required by law. This paragraph 0A501.e is synonymous with a “part” or “component” that is regulated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (see 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3); 27 CFR parts 447, 478, and 479,) as a firearm.
Note 5 to 0A501.e:
Frames (receivers) “specially designed” for semi-automatic firearms are controlled under ECCN 0A509.b or .c.
f. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts” and “components” that are “specially designed” for a commodity classified under paragraphs .a through .c of this entry, a commodity classified under ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507, or the USML and not elsewhere specified on the USML or CCL or controlled under ECCN 0A509.
y. Specific “parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN, ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, or common to a defense article in USML Category I and not elsewhere specified in the USML or CCL as follows, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor.
y.1. Stocks (including adjustable, collapsible, blades and braces), grips, handguards, or forends, that do not contain any fire control “parts” or “components” (
e.g.,
triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors);
y.2 to y.5. [Reserved]
y.6. Bayonets; and
y.7. Firearms manufactured from 1890 to 1898 and reproductions thereof.
Technical Note 1 to 0A501:
ECCN 0A501 includes “parts” and “components” that are not “subject to the ITAR” even though they are common to firearms described in ECCN 0A501 and to those firearms “subject to the ITAR.”
Technical Note 2 to 0A501:
A receiver with any other controlled “part” or “component” (e.g., a barrel (0A501.c), or trigger guard (0A501.x), or stock (0A501.y.1)) is still controlled under 0A501.e.
Note 6 to 0A501:
Antique firearms i.e., those manufactured before 1890) and reproductions thereof, muzzle loading and black powder firearms except those designs based on centerfire weapons of a post 1937 design, BB guns, pellet rifles, paint ball, and all other air rifles are EAR99 commodities.
Note 7 to 0A501:
Muzzle loading and black powder firearms with a caliber less than 20 mm that were manufactured post 1937 that are used for hunting or sporting purposes that were not “specially designed” for military use and are not described on the USML nor controlled as shotguns under ECCN 0A502 are EAR99 commodities.
Note 8 to 0A501:
Scope mounts or accessory rails, iron sights, sling swivels, and butt plates or recoil pads that are subject to the EAR are designated as EAR99. These commodities have been determined to no longer warrant being “specially designed” for purposes of ECCN 0A501.
Note 9 to 0A501:
A kit, including a replacement or repair kit, of firearms “parts” or “components” customarily sold and exported together takes on the classification of the most restrictive “part” or “component” that is included in the kit. For example, a kit containing 0A501.y and .x “parts,” is controlled as a 0A501.x kit because the .x “part” is the most restrictive “part” included in the kit. A complete 0A501 firearm disassembled in a kit form is controlled as a firearm under 0A501.a, .b, or .y.7.
0A502 Shotguns; shotguns “parts” and “components,” consisting of complete trigger mechanisms; magazines and magazine extension tubes; “complete breech mechanisms;” except: semi-automatic shotguns controlled under ECCN 0A508; certain “parts,” components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for semi-automatic shotguns controlled under ECCN 0A509; equipment used to slaughter domestic animals or used exclusively to treat or tranquilize animals; and arms designed solely for signal, flare, or saluting use.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, FC, CC, UN, AT, NS
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
NS Column 1
RS applies to shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$500 for 0A502 shotgun “parts” and “components,” consisting of complete trigger mechanisms; magazines and magazine extension tubes. $500 for 0A502 shotgun “parts” and “components,” consisting of complete trigger mechanisms; magazines and magazine extension tubes, “complete breech mechanisms” if the ultimate destination is Canada.
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for shotguns that are fully automatic. (2) See ECCN 0A508 for semi-automatic shotguns. (3) See ECCN 0A509 for enumerated or otherwise described “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for ECCN 0A508. (4) See 0A501.d, .x, and .y for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A508. (5) See ECCNs 0A501 for non-semi-automatic firearms, 0A506 for semi-automatic rifles, and 0A507 for semi-automatic pistols.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Note 1 to 0A502:
Shotguns made in or before 1898 are considered antique shotguns and designated as EAR99.
Technical Note:
Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic shot pistols or shotguns that have had the shoulder stock removed and a pistol grip attached are controlled by ECCN 0A502. Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic slug guns are also controlled under ECCN 0A502.
0A503 Discharge type arms; non-lethal or less-lethal grenades and projectiles, and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” of those projectiles; and devices to administer electric shock, for example, stun guns, shock batons, shock shields, electric cattle prods, immobilization guns and projectiles; except equipment used to slaughter domestic animals or used exclusively to treat or tranquilize animals, and except arms designed solely for signal, flare, or saluting use; and “specially designed” “parts” and “components,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
A license is required for ALL destinations, except Canada, regardless of end use. Accordingly, a column specific to this control does not appear on the Commerce Country Chart. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information)
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) of the EAR for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Law enforcement restraint devices that administer an electric shock are controlled under ECCN 0A982. Electronic devices that monitor and report a person's location to enforce restrictions on movement for law enforcement or penal reasons are controlled under ECCN 3A981.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0A504 Optical sighting devices for firearms (including shotguns controlled by 0A502); and “components” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
FC, RS, CC, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to paragraph .i
RS Column 1
FC applies to paragraphs .a, .b, .c, .d, .e, .g, and .i of this entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) of the EAR for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$500 for 0A504.g.
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category XII(c) for sighting devices using second generation image intensifier tubes having luminous sensitivity greater than 350 µA/lm, or third generation or higher image intensifier tubes, that are “subject to the ITAR.” (2) See USML Category XII(b) for laser aiming or laser illumination systems “subject to the ITAR.” (3) Section 744.9 of the EAR imposes a license requirement on certain commodities described in 0A504 if being exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) for use by a military end user or for incorporation into an item controlled by ECCN 0A919.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Telescopic sights.
b. Holographic sights.
c. Reflex or “red dot” sights.
d. Reticle sights.
e. Other sighting devices that contain optical elements.
f. Laser aiming devices or laser illuminators “specially designed” for use on firearms, and having an operational wavelength exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 710 nm.
Note 1 to 0A504.f:
0A504.f does not control laser boresighting devices that must be placed in the bore or chamber to provide a reference for aligning the firearms sights
.
g. Lenses, other optical elements and adjustment mechanisms for articles in paragraphs .a, .b, .c, .d, .e, or .i.
h. [Reserved]
i. Riflescopes that were not “subject to the EAR” as of March 8, 2020 and are “specially designed” for use in firearms that are “subject to the ITAR.”
Note 2 to paragraph i:
For purpose of the application of “specially designed” for the riflescopes controlled under 0A504.i, paragraph (a)(1) of the definition of “specially designed” in § 772.1 of the EAR is what is used to determine whether the riflescope is “specially designed.”
0A505 Ammunition as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to 0A505.a and .x
NS Column 1
RS applies to 0A505.a and .x
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry except 0A505.d
FC Column 1
CC applies to 0A505.a, .b, and .x
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to 0A505.a, .d, and .x
AT Column 1
AT applies to 0A505.c
A license is required for items controlled by paragraph .c of this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$500 for items in 0A505.x, except $3,000 for items in 0A505.x that, immediately prior to March 9, 2020, were classified under 0A018.b. (
i.e.,
“Specially designed” components and parts for ammunition, except cartridge cases, powder bags, bullets, jackets, cores, shells, projectiles, boosters, fuses and components, primers, and other detonating devices and ammunition belting and linking machines (all of which are “subject to the ITAR”). (See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130))
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0A505.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category III for ammunition for modern heavy weapons
such as howitzers, artillery, cannon, mortars and recoilless rifles as well as inherently military ammunition types such as ammunition preassembled into links or belts, caseless ammunition, tracer ammunition, ammunition with a depleted uranium projectile or a projectile with a hardened tip or core and ammunition with an explosive projectile. (2) Percussion caps, and lead balls and bullets, for use with muzzle-loading firearms are EAR99 items. (3) See USML Category III for shotgun projectiles that are flechettes, incendiary, tracer, or explosive.
Related Definitions:
'Marking rounds' are non-lethal, typically used for training purposes, and contain a dye or paint in a capsule that is not a chemical irritant.
Items:
a. Ammunition for firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, or 0A507 or USML Category I and not enumerated in paragraph .b, .c, or .d of this entry or described in USML Category III.
b. Buckshot (No. 4 .24″ diameter and larger, any material) shotgun shells and shotgun shells that contain only buckshot, or are for the dispersion of chemical irritants.
c. Shotgun shells (including less than lethal rounds) that do not contain buckshot; and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” of shotgun shells.
d. Blank ammunition for firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A501, 0A502, 0A506, 0A507, or 0A508 and not described in USML Category III.
Technical Note to 0A505.d:
Includes 'marking rounds' that have paint/dye as the projectile.
e. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts” and “components” that are “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category III and not elsewhere specified on the USML or the CCL.
Note 1 to 0A505.x:
The controls on “parts” and “components” in this entry include Berdan and boxer primers, metallic cartridge cases, and standard metallic projectiles such as full metal jacket, lead core, copper projectiles, and frangible projectiles.
Note 2 to 0A505:
Metal shot smaller than No. 4 Buckshot, empty and unprimed shotgun shells, shotgun wads, smokeless gunpowder, 'dummy rounds' and 'drill rounds' (unless linked or belted), not incorporating a lethal or non-lethal projectile(s) are designated EAR99. A 'dummy round' or 'drill round' is a round that is completely inert, (i.e., contains no primer, propellant, or explosive charge). It is typically used to check weapon function and for crew training.
Note 3 to 0A505:
Shotgun shells that contain two or more balls/shot larger than .24-inch are controlled under 0A505.b.
0A506 Semi-Automatic Rifles as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0A506.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for firearms that are fully automatic, and magazines with a capacity of greater than 50 rounds. (2) See ECCN 0A507 for semi-automatic pistols, excluding pistols built with,
e.g.,
AR- or AK-style receivers (frames), which are controlled under ECCN 0A506. (3) See ECCN 0A508 for semi-automatic shotguns and ECCN 0A502 for certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (4) See ECCN 0A509 for enumerated or otherwise described “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, and 0A508. (5) See 0A501.c, .d, .x, and .y for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A506 and 0A507, or 0A508. (6) See ECCN 0A501 for non-semi-automatic firearms (except 0A502 shotguns) and related commodities that are subject to the EAR. (7) See ECCN 0A502 for non-automatic shotguns and their “parts” and “components” that are subject to the EAR and certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (8) See ECCN 0A504 and USML Category XII for controls on optical sighting devices.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Semi-automatic centerfire (non-rimfire) rifles equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less that has any one of the following:
a.1. ability to accept a detachable large capacity magazine (more than 10 rounds); or may be easily modified to do so;
a.2. folding or telescoping stock;
a.3. separate pistol grips;
a.4. ability to accept a bayonet;
a.5. a flash suppressor;
or
a.6. bipods.
b. Semi-automatic rifles equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less, including all non-centerfire (rimfire), n.e.s.
Note 1 to 0A506.a and .b:
“Parts” and “components” that are “specially designed” for a commodity classified under .a or .b of this entry, except those controlled under ECCN 0A509, are controlled under ECCN 0A501.c, .d, .x, or .y.
Technical Note 1 to 0A506:
Firearms described in 0A506 include those chambered for the .50 BMG cartridge.
Technical Note 2 to 0A506:
Firearms described in 0A506 include pistols built with, e.g., AR- or AK-style receivers (frames).
0A507 Semi-Automatic Pistols as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0A507.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for firearms that are fully automatic, and magazines with a capacity of greater than 50 rounds. (2) See ECCN 0A506 for semi-automatic rifles. (3) See ECCN 0A508 for semi-automatic shotguns and ECCN 0A502 for certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (4) See ECCN 0A509 for enumerated or otherwise described “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, and 0A508. (5) See ECCN 0A501.c, .d, .x, and .y for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A506 and 0A507, or 0A508. (6) See ECCN 0A501 for non-semi-automatic firearms (except 0A502 shotguns) and related commodities that are subject to the EAR. (7) See ECCN 0A502 for non-automatic shotguns and their “parts” and “components” that are subject to the EAR and certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by 0A509.a or .c. (8) See ECCN 0A504 and USML Category XII for controls on optical sighting devices.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Semi-automatic centerfire (non-rimfire) pistols equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less.
b. Semi-automatic rimfire pistols equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less.
Note 1 to 0A507.a and .b:
“Parts” and “components” that are “specially designed” for a commodity classified under .a or .b of this entry, except those controlled under ECCN 0A509, are controlled under ECCN 0A501.c, .d, .x, or .y.
Technical Note to 0A507:
Firearms described in 0A507 includes those chambered for the .50 BMG cartridge, including revolvers, or that may be developed to fire .50 BMG cartridges.
0A508 Semi-Automatic Shotguns as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to semi-automatic shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
NS Column 1
RS applies to semi-automatic shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to semi-automatic shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches (45.72 cm)
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0A508.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for shotguns that are fully automatic. (2) See ECCN 0A502 for non-semi-automatic shotguns. (3) See ECCN 0A509 for enumerated or otherwise described “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for ECCN 0A508. (4) See 0A501.d, .x, and .y for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A508. (5) See ECCNs 0A501 for non-semi-automatic firearms, 0A506 for semi-automatic rifles, and 0A507 for semi-automatic pistols.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Semi-automatic centerfire (non-rimfire) shotguns with any one of the following:
a.1. folding, telescoping, or collapsible stock;
a.2. a flash suppressor;
a.3. a magazine over five rounds;
a.4. a drum magazine;
a.5. Excessive Weight (greater than 10 lbs for 12 gauge or smaller);
or
a.6. Excessive Bulk (greater than 3 inches in width and/or greater than 4 inches in depth).
b. Semi-automatic shotguns, including all non-centerfire (rimfire), n.e.s.
0A509 Certain “parts,” “components,” devices, “accessories,” and “attachments” for items controlled under ECCNs 0A506, 0A507, and 0A508 as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, FC, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
FC applies to entire entry
FC Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0A509.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category I for firearms that are fully automatic, and magazines with a capacity of greater than 50 rounds. (2) See ECCN 0A506 for semi-automatic rifles. (3) See ECCN 0A507 for semi-automatic pistols. (4) See ECCN 0A508 for semi-automatic shotguns and ECCN 0A502 for certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by .a or .c of this entry. (5) See ECCN 0A501.c, .d, .x, and .y for other “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for 0A506 and 0A507, or 0A508. (6) See ECCN 0A501 for non-semi-automatic firearms (except 0A502 shotguns) and related commodities that are subject to the EAR. (7) See ECCN 0A502 for non-automatic shotguns and their “parts” and “components” that are subject to the EAR and certain “parts” and “components” for semi-automatic shotguns that are not controlled by .a or .c of this entry. (8) See ECCN 0A504 and USML Category XII for controls on optical sighting devices. (9) See USML Category I for similar items.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Any “part,” “component,” device, “attachment,” or “accessory” not elsewhere specified on the USML that is designed or functions to convert a non-semi-automatic firearm controlled by 0A501 or 0A502 to semi-automatic or to accelerate the rate of fire of a semi-automatic firearm controlled by 0A506, 0A507, or 0A508.
b. Receivers (frames), including castings, forgings, stampings, or machined items thereof, “specially designed” for an item controlled by ECCN 0A506.
c. Receivers (frames), including castings, forgings, stampings, or machined items thereof, “specially designed” for an item controlled by ECCN 0A507.
d. Receivers (frames) and “specially designed” “complete breech mechanisms” for a commodity controlled by ECCN 0A508.
Note 1 to 0A509.b and .c:
Receivers (frames) under 0A509.b and .c refers to any “part” or “component” of the firearm that has or is customarily marked with a serial number when required by law. Paragraph 0A509.b and .c are synonymous with a “part” or “component” that is regulated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (see 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3); 27 CFR parts 447, 478, and 479,) as a firearm.
0A521 Any commodity subject to the EAR that is not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which is controlled for export because it provides at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons.
0A521 commodities are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0A521. The list of commodities determined to be classified under ECCN 0A521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0A521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.
0A602 Guns and Armament as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0A602.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Modern heavy weapons such as howitzers, artillery, cannon, mortars, and recoilless rifles are “subject to the ITAR.” (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” items. (3) See ECCN 0A606 for engines that are “specially designed” for a self-propelled gun or howitzer subject to control under paragraph .a of this ECCN or USML Category VII.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Guns and armament manufactured between 1890 and 1919.
b. Military flame throwers with an effective range less than 20 meters.
c. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts” and “components” that are “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in paragraphs .a or .b of this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category II and not elsewhere specified on the USML or the CCL.
Note 1 to 0A602.x:
Engines that are “specially designed” for a self-propelled gun or howitzer subject to control under paragraph .a of this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category VII are controlled under ECCN 0A606.x.
Note 2 to 0A602:
“Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” specified in USML subcategory II(j) are subject to the controls of that paragraph.
Note 3 to 0A602:
Black powder guns and armament manufactured in or prior to 1890 and replicas thereof designed for use with black powder propellants are designated EAR99.
0A604 Commodities related to military explosive devices and charges (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in this ECCN 0A604.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Torpedoes, bombs, and mines are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR § 121.1, USML Category IV). (2) Smoke bombs, non-irritant smoke flares, canisters, grenades and charges, and other pyrotechnical articles having both military and commercial applications are controlled by ECCN 1A984. (3) Certain explosive detonator firing sets, electrically driven explosive detonators, and detonators and multipoint initiation systems are controlled by ECCN 1A007 or ECCN 3A232. (4) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Demolition blocks, and detonators designed, modified, or adapted therefor.
b. Military explosive excavating devices.
Note to 0A604.a and .b

# :
This entry does not control the detonators and other items described in ECCN 1A007 or ECCN 3A232.
c. Smoke hand grenades and stun hand grenades (e.g., “flashbangs”) not controlled by ECCN 1A984.
d. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in paragraphs .a through .c of this ECCN, or for a defense article controlled under USML Category IV, and not specified elsewhere on the USML.
Note to 0A604.x

# :
“Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” specified in USML Category IV(h) are subject to the controls of that paragraph
0A606 Ground vehicles and related commodities, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0A606.b and .y
NS Column 1
NS applies to 0A606.b
NS Column 2
RS applies to entire entry, except 0A606.b and .y
RS Column 1
RS applies to 0A606.b
RS Column 2
RS applies to 0A606.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7))
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry, except 0A606.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
(1) Paragraph (c)(1) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(1) of the EAR) may not
be used for any item in 0A606.a, unless determined by BIS to be eligible for License Exception STA in accordance with § 740.20(g) (License Exception STA eligibility requests for 9x515 and “600 series” items). (2) Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0A606.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) The ground vehicles, other articles, technical data (including software) and services described in 22 CFR part 121, Category VII are subject to the jurisdiction of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Ground vehicles, whether manned or unmanned, “specially designed” for a military use and not enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VII.
Note 1 to paragraph a:
For purposes of paragraph a, “ground vehicles” include (i) tanks and armored vehicles manufactured prior to 1956 that have not been modified since 1955 and that do not contain a functional weapon or a weapon capable of becoming functional through repair; (ii) military railway trains except those that are armed or are “specially designed” to launch missiles; (iii) unarmored military recovery and other support vehicles; (iv) unarmored, unarmed vehicles with mounts or hard points for firearms of .50 caliber or less; and (v) trailers “specially designed” for use with other ground vehicles enumerated in USML Category VII or ECCN 0A606.a, and not separately enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VII. For purposes of this note, the term “modified” does not include incorporation of safety features required by law, cosmetic changes (e.g., different paint or repositioning of bolt holes) or addition of “parts” or “components” available prior to 1956.
Note 2 to paragraph a:
A ground vehicle's being “specially designed” for military use for purposes of determining controls under paragraph .a. entails a structural, electrical or mechanical feature involving one or more “components” that are “specially designed” for military use. Such “components” include:
a. Pneumatic tire casings of a kind “specially designed” to be bullet-proof;
b. Armored protection of vital “parts” (e.g., fuel tanks or vehicle cabs);
c. Special reinforcements or mountings for weapons;
d. Black-out lighting.
b. Other ground vehicles, “parts” and “components,” as follows:
b.1. Unarmed vehicles that are derived from civilian vehicles and that have all of the following:
b.1.a. Manufactured or fitted with materials or “components” other than reactive or electromagnetic armor to provide ballistic protection equal to or better than level III (National Institute of Justice standard 0108.01, September 1985) or “equivalent standards”;
b.1.b. A transmission to provide drive to both front and rear wheels simultaneously, including those for vehicles having additional wheels for load bearing purposes whether driven or not;
b.1.c. Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) greater than 4,500 kg;
and
b.1.d. Designed or modified for off-road use.
b.2. “Parts” and “components” having all of the following:
b.2.a. “Specially designed” for vehicles specified in paragraph .b.1 of this entry;
and
b.2.b. Providing ballistic protection equal to or better than level III (National Institute of Justice standard 0108.01, September 1985) or “equivalent standards”.
Note 1 to paragraph b:
Ground vehicles otherwise controlled by 0A606.b.1 that contain reactive or electromagnetic armor are subject to the controls of USML Category VII.
Note 2 to paragraph b:
ECCN 0A606.b.1 does not control civilian vehicles “specially designed” for transporting money or valuables.
Note 3 to paragraph b:
“Unarmed” means not having installed weapons, installed mountings for weapons, or special reinforcements for mounts for weapons.
c. Air-cooled diesel engines and engine blocks for armored vehicles that weigh more than 40 tons.
d. Fully automatic continuously variable transmissions for tracked combat vehicles.
e. Deep water fording kits “specially designed” for ground vehicles controlled by ECCN 0A606.a or USML Category VII.
f. Self-launching bridge “components” not enumerated in USML Category VII(g) “specially designed” for deployment by ground vehicles enumerated in USML Category VII or this ECCN.
g. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (other than 0A606.b or 0A606.y) or a defense article enumerated in USML Category VII and not elsewhere specified on the USML or in 0A606.y.
Note 1:
Forgings, castings, and other unfinished products, such as extrusions and machined bodies, that have reached a stage in manufacture where they are clearly identifiable by mechanical properties, material composition, geometry, or function as commodities controlled by ECCN 0A606.x are controlled by ECCN 0A606.x.
Note 2:
“Parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” enumerated in USML paragraph VII(g) are subject to the controls of that
paragraph. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” described in ECCN 0A606.y are subject to the controls of that paragraph.
y. Specific “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for a commodity enumerated or otherwise described in this ECCN (other than ECCN 0A606.b) or for a defense article in USML Category VII and not elsewhere specified on the USML or the CCL, as follows, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor:
y.1. Brake discs, rotors, drums, calipers, cylinders, pads, shoes, lines, hoses, vacuum boosters, and parts therefor;
y.2. Alternators and generators;
y.3. Axles;
y.4. Batteries;
y.5. Bearings (
e.g.,
ball, roller, wheel);
y.6. Cables, cable assembles, and connectors;
y.7. Cooling system hoses;
y.8. Hydraulic, fuel, oil, and air filters, not controlled by ECCN 1A004;
y.9. Gaskets and o-rings;
y.10. Hydraulic system hoses, fittings, couplings, adapters, and valves;
y.11. Latches and hinges;
y.12. Lighting systems, fuses, and “components;”
y.13. Pneumatic hoses, fittings, adapters, couplings, and valves;
y.14. Seats, seat assemblies, seat supports, and harnesses;
y.15 Tires, except run flat; and
y.16 Windows, except those for armored vehicles.
0A614 Military training “equipment,” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2)) of the EAR may not be used for any item in 0A614.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Defense articles that are enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category IX and “technical data” (including “software”) directly related thereto are “subject to the ITAR”. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
of US-origin “600 series” items. (3) “Parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” that are common to a simulator controlled by ECCN 0A614.a and to a simulated system or an end item that is controlled on the USML or elsewhere on the CCL are controlled under the same USML Category or ECCN as the “parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” of the simulated system or end item.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Equipment” “specially designed” for military training that is not enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category IX.
Note 1 to 0A614:
This entry includes operational flight trainers, radar target trainers, flight simulators for aircraft classified under ECCN 9A610.a, human-rated centrifuges, radar trainers for radars classified under ECCN 3A611, instrument flight trainers for military aircraft, navigation trainers for military items, target equipment, armament trainers, military pilotless aircraft trainers, mobile training units and training “equipment” for ground military operations.
Note 2 to 0A614:
This entry does not apply to “equipment” “specially designed” for training in the use of hunting or sporting weapons.
b. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories” “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by this entry or an article enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category IX, and not specified elsewhere on the USML.
0A617 Miscellaneous “Equipment,” Materials, and Related Commodities (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0A617.y
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry, except 0A617.y
RS Column 1
RS applies to 0A617.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7))
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire
entry, except 0A617.y.
See § 764.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0A617.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Defense articles, such as materials made from classified information, that are controlled by USML Category XIII, and technical data (including software) directly related thereto, are subject to the ITAR. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content. (3) For controls on self-contained diving and underwater swimming apparatus and related commodities, see ECCN 8A620.f. (4) For controls on robots, robot controllers, and robot end-effectors, see USML Category VII and ECCNs 0A606 and 2B007. (5) “Libraries,”
i.e.,
parametric technical databases, “specially designed” for military use with equipment controlled by the USML or a “600 series” ECCN are controlled by the technical data and technology controls pertaining to such items. (6) For controls on nuclear power generating equipment or propulsion equipment, including “nuclear reactors,” “specially designed” for military use, and “parts” and “components” “specially designed” therefor, see USML Categories VI, XIII, XV, and XX. (7) Simulators “specially designed” for military “nuclear reactors” are controlled by USML Category IX(b). (8) See USML Categories X, XI and XII for “laser” protection equipment (
e.g.,
eye and sensor protection) “specially designed” for military use. (9) “Fuel cells” “specially designed” for a defense article on the USML or a commodity controlled by a “600 series” ECCN are controlled according to the corresponding “600 series” ECCN for such end items. (10) See USML Category XV for controls on fuel cells “specially designed” for satellite or spacecraft.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. Concealment and deception equipment “specially designed” for military application, including special paints, decoys, smoke or obscuration equipment and simulators, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor, not controlled by USML Category XIII.
c. Ferries, bridges not described in ECCN 0A606 or USML Category VII, and pontoons, “specially designed” for military use.
d. Test models “specially designed” for the “development” of defense articles controlled by USML Categories IV, VI, VII and VIII.
e. [Reserved]
f. “Metal embrittlement agents.”
g. through x. [Reserved]
y. Other commodities as follows, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefore:
y.1. Construction equipment “specially designed” for military use, including such equipment “specially designed” for transport in aircraft controlled by USML VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a.
y.2. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” for commodities in paragraph .y.1 of this entry, including crew protection kits used as protective cabs.
y.3. ISO intermodal containers or demountable vehicle bodies (
i.e.,
swap bodies), n.e.s., “specially designed” or 'modified' for shipping or packing defense articles or items controlled by a “600 series” ECCN.
Technical Note:
For the purpose of 0A617.y.3, 'modified' means any structural, electrical, mechanical, or other change that provides a non-military item with military capabilities equivalent to an item which is “specially designed” for military use.
y.4. Field generators “specially designed” for military use.
y.5. Power controlled searchlights and control units therefor, “specially designed” for military use, and “equipment” mounting such units.
0A919 “Military commodities” located and produced outside the United States as follows (see list of items controlled)
License Requirements
Reasons for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1, See § 742.6(a)(3) for license requirements.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Military commodities” are subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of the Department of State if they incorporate items that are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130). (2) “Military commodities” described in this paragraph are subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of the Department of State if such commodities are described on the U.S. Munitions List (22 CFR part 121) and are in the United States. (3) The furnishing of assistance (including training) to foreign persons, whether in the United States or abroad, in the design, development, engineering, manufacture, production, assembly, testing, repair, maintenance, modification, operation, demilitarization, destruction, processing, or use of defense articles that are subject to the ITAR;
or the furnishing to foreign persons of any technical data controlled under 22 CFR 121.1 whether in the United States or abroad are under the licensing jurisdiction of the Department of State. (4) Brokering activities (as defined in 22 CFR 129) of “military commodities” that are subject to the ITAR are under the licensing jurisdiction of the Department of State.
Related Definitions:
“Military commodity” or “military commodities” means an article, material or supply that is described on the U.S. Munitions List (22 CFR part 121) or on the Munitions List that is published by the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies (
i.e.,
the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML)), but does not include software, technology, any item listed in any ECCN for which the last three numerals are 018, or any item in the “600 series.”
Items:
a. “Military commodities” produced and located outside the United States that are not subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR parts 120-130) and having any of the following characteristics:
a.1. Incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin controlled content classified under ECCNs 6A002, 6A003, or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4);
a.2. Incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content (see § 734.4 of the EAR);
or
a.3. Are direct products of U.S.-origin “600 series” technology or software (see § 734.9(d) of the EAR).
b. [Reserved]
0A977 Water cannon systems for riot or crowd control, and “parts” and “components” “specially designed” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC 1
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0A977.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Note:
0A977 water cannon systems include, for example: vehicles or fixed stations equipped with remotely operated water cannon that are designed to protect the operator from an outside riot with features such as armor, shatter resistant windows, metal screens, bull-bars, or run-flat tires. Components “specially designed” for water cannons may include, for example: deck gun water nozzles, pumps, reservoirs, cameras, and lights that are hardened or shielded against projectiles, elevating masts for those items, and teleoperation systems for those items.
0A978 Law enforcement striking weapons, including saps, police batons, side handle batons, tonfas, sjamboks, and whips.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0A979 Police helmets and shields; and “specially designed” “components,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0A980 Horses by sea.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
0A981 Equipment designed for the execution of human beings as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s): CC applies to entire entry. A license is required for ALL destinations regardless of end-use. Accordingly, a column specific to this control does not appear on the Commerce Country Chart. (See § 742.7 of the EAR for additional information.)
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Gallows and guillotines.
b. Electric chairs for the purpose of executing human beings.
c. Air tight vaults designed for the execution of human beings by the administration of a lethal gas or substance.
d. Automatic drug injection systems designed for the execution of human beings by administration of a lethal substance.
0A982 Law enforcement restraint devices, including leg irons, shackles, and handcuffs; straight jackets; stun cuffs; shock belts; shock sleeves; multipoint restraint devices such as restraint chairs; and “specially designed” “parts,” “components” and “accessories,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s):
CC applies to entire entry. A license is required for ALL destinations, except Canada, regardless of end-use. Accordingly, a column specific to this control does not appear on the Commerce Country Chart. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information.)
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Thumbcuffs and fingercuffs are classified under ECCN 0A983, “specially designed” implements of torture. Restraint devices that electronically monitor or report the location of confined persons for law enforcement or penal reasons are controlled under ECCN 3A981.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Note to ECCN 0A982.
This ECCN applies to restraint devices used in law enforcement activities. It does not apply to medical devices that are equipped to restrain patient movement during medical procedures. It does not apply to devices that confine memory impaired patients to appropriate medical facilities. It does not apply to safety equipment such as safety belts or child automobile safety seats.
0A983 “Specially designed” implements of torture, including thumbscrews, thumbcuffs, fingercuffs, spiked batons, and “specially designed” “parts,” “components” and “accessories,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s):
CC applies to entire entry. A license is required for ALL destinations, regardless of end-use. Accordingly, a column specific to this control does not appear on the Commerce Country Chart. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information.)
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
Note to ECCN 0A983.
In this ECCN, “torture” has the meaning set forth in Section 2340(1) of Title 18, United States Code.
0A998 Oil and gas exploration equipment, software, and data, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
Foreign policy
Control(s)
Country chart
Russian industry sector sanction applies to entire entry
See § 746.8 for specific license requirements and license review policy.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Oil and gas exploration data,
e.g.,
seismic analysis data.
b. Hydraulic fracturing items, as follows:
b.1. Hydraulic fracturing design and analysis software and data.
b.2. Hydraulic fracturing 'proppant,' 'fracking fluid,' and chemical additives therefor.
Technical Note:
A 'proppant' is a solid material, typically treated sand or man-made ceramic materials, designed to keep an induced hydraulic fracture open, during or following a fracturing treatment. It is added to a 'fracking fluid' which may vary in composition depending on the type of fracturing used, and can be gel, foam or slickwater-based.
b.3. High pressure pumps.
0A999 Specific Processing Equipment, as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
Country Chart.
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Ring Magnets;
b. Reserved.

# B. “Test”, “Inspection” and “Production Equipment”
0B501 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities for the “development” or “production” of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, or 0A509 or USML Category I as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except equipment for ECCN 0A501.y
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry except equipment for ECCN 0A501.y
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of all License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used to ship any item in this entry.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Small arms chambering machines.
b. Small arms deep hole drilling machines and drills therefor.
c. Small arms rifling machines.
d. Small arms boring/reaming machines.
e. Production equipment (including dies, fixtures, and other tooling) “specially designed” for the “production” of the items controlled in 0A501.a through .x., 0A506, 0A507, 0A509, or USML Category I.
0B505 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A505 or USML Category III, except equipment for the hand loading of cartridges and shotgun shells, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to paragraphs .a and .x
NS Column 1
RS applies to paragraphs .a and .x
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to paragraphs .a, .d, and .x
AT Column 1
AT applies to paragraph .c
A license is required for export or reexport of these items to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0B505.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Production equipment (including tooling, templates, jigs, mandrels, molds, dies, fixtures, alignment mechanisms, and test equipment), not enumerated in USML Category III that are “specially designed” for the “production” of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A505.a or .x or USML Category III.
b. Equipment “specially designed” for the “production” of commodities in ECCN 0A505.b.
c. Equipment “specially designed” for the “production” of commodities in ECCN 0A505.c.
d. Equipment “specially designed” for the “production” of commodities in ECCN 0A505.d.
e. through .w [Reserved]
x. “Parts” and “components” “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in paragraph .a of this entry.
0B521 Any commodity subject to the EAR that is not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which is controlled for export because it provides at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons.
0B521 commodities are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0B521. The list of commodities determined to be classified under ECCN 0B521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0B521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.
0B602 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0B602.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. The following commodities if “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of commodities enumerated in ECCN 0A602.a or USML Category II:
a.1. Gun barrel rifling and broaching machines and tools therefor;
a.2. Gun barrel rifling machines;
a.3. Gun barrel trepanning machines;
a.4. Gun boring and turning machines;
a.5. Gun honing machines of 6 feet (183 cm) stroke or more;
a.6. Gun jump screw lathes;
a.7. Gun rifling machines; and
a.8. Barrel straightening presses.
b. Jigs and fixtures and other metal-working implements or accessories of the kinds exclusively designed for use in the manufacture of items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.
c. Other tooling and equipment, “specially designed” for the “production” of items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.
d. Test and evaluation equipment and test models, including diagnostic instrumentation and physical test models, “specially designed” for items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.
0B604 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities in ECCN 0A604 or related defense articles in USML Category IV (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in this ECCN 0B604.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 9B604, which controls test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of commodities in ECCN 9A604 or related defense articles in USML Category IV. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Test, inspection, and other production “equipment” that are “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A604 or for bombs, torpedoes, depth charges, mines and hand grenades, and parts, components, accessories and attachments therefor, controlled under USML Category IV.
b. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in paragraph .a of this ECCN.
0B606 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities, not enumerated on the USML, “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 or USML Category VII (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0B606.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Ground vehicles, other articles, technical data (including software) and services described in 22 CFR part 121, Category VII are subject to the jurisdiction of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Test, inspection, and production “equipment” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (except for 0A606.b or 0A606.y) or in USML Category VII, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor.
Note 1:
ECCN 0B606 includes (i) armor plate drilling machines, other than radial drilling machines, (ii) armor plate planing machines, (iii) armor plate quenching presses; and (iv) tank turret bearing grinding machines.
b. Environmental test facilities “specially designed” for the certification, qualification, or testing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (except for 0A606.b or 0A606.y) or in USML Category VII, and “equipment” “specially designed” therefor.
0B614 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” for military training “equipment” and “specially designed” “parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0B614.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Test, inspection, and other production “equipment” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A614 or articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category IX.
b. through .w [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by ECCN 0B614.
0B617 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A617 or USML Category XIII, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0B617.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Test, inspection, and production “equipment” not controlled by USML Category XIII(k) “specially designed” for the “production,” “development,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A617, (except for 0A617.y) or USML Category XIII, and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” “specially designed” therefor.
b. [Reserved]
Note:
Field engineer equipment “specially designed” for use in a combat zone, identified in the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List 17.d, and mobile repair shops “specially designed” or modified to service military equipment, identified in Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List 17.j, are controlled by 0B617 to the extent that the items are not included in USML Category XIII(k).
0B999 Specific Processing Equipment, as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT license requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
RS applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Hot cells;
b. Glove boxes suitable for use with radioactive materials.

# C. “Materials”
0C521 Any material subject to the EAR that is not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which is controlled for export because it provides at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons.
0C521 materials are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0C521. The list of materials determined to be classified under ECCN 0C521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0C521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.
0C606 Materials “specially designed” for commodities controlled by ECCN 0A606 not elsewhere specified in the USML (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0C606.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Materials that are subject to the jurisdiction of the ITAR are described in USML Category XIII. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
Materials “specially designed” for commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (other than 0A606.b or 0A606.y) or USML Category VII, not elsewhere specified in the USML or the CCL.
Note:
Materials “specially designed” for both ground vehicles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VII and ground vehicles enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 are subject to the controls of this ECCN
unless identified in USML Category VII(g) as being subject to the controls of that paragraph.
0C617 Miscellaneous Materials “Specially Designed” for Military Use (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0C617.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) For controls on other signature suppression materials, see USML Category XIII and ECCNs 1C001 and 1C101. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Materials, coatings and treatments for signature suppression, “specially designed” for military use to reduce detectability or observability and that are not controlled by USML Category XIII or ECCNs 1C001 or 1C101.
b. [Reserved]

# D. “Software”
0D001 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of commodities described in 0A002. (These items are “subject to the ITAR.” See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
Heading Note:
Certain “software” for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of nuclear related commodities is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
License Requirements
Control(s):
“Software” for items described in 0A002 is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The List of Items Controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0D501 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, 0A509 or 0B501.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y or equipment in ECCN 0B501 for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry except “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y or equipment in ECCN 0B501 for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y
RS Column 1
CC applies to entire entry except “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y or equipment in ECCN 0B501 for commodities in ECCN 0A501.y
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “software” in 0D501.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See USML Category I for “software” directly related to articles described in USML Category I.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in this ECCN heading.
0D505 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by 0A505 or 0B505.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A505.a and .x and equipment in ECCN 0B505.a .and .x
NS Column 1
RS applies to “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A505.a and .x and equipment in ECCN 0B505.a and .x
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to “software” for commodities in ECCN 0A505.a, .d, or .x and equipment in ECCN 0B505.a, .d, or .x
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “software” in 0D505.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
“Software” required for and directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category III is “subject to the ITAR”.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in this ECCN heading.
0D521 Any software subject to the EAR that is not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which is controlled for export because it provides at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons.
0D521 software is subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0D521. The list of software determined to be classified under ECCN 0D521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0D521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.
0D602 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by 0A602 or 0B602 as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0D602.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” required for and directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category II is “subject to the ITAR”. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” items.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
“Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A602 and ECCN 0B602.
0D604 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A604 or 0B604 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in this ECCN 0D604.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category IV is controlled under USML Category IV(i). (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A604 or 0B604.
b. [Reserved]
0D606 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of ground vehicles and related commodities controlled by 0A606, 0B606, or 0C606 (see List of Items Controlled)
.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0D606.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry, except 0D606.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 0D606.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 0D606.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any software in 0D606.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Software directly related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VII are subject to the controls of USML paragraph VII(h). (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a de minimis amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 0A606 (except for ECCNs 0A606.b or 0A606.y), 0B606, or 0C606.
b. through x. [Reserved]
y. “Specific software” “specially designed” for the “production,” “development,” operation, or maintenance of commodities described in ECCN 0A606.y.
0D614 “Software” related to military training “equipment,” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “software” in 0D614.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category IX is subject to the control of USML paragraph IX(e). (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” items.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 0A614 or 0B614.
b. [Reserved]
0D617 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by 0A617, “equipment” controlled by 0B617, or materials controlled by 0C617 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0D617.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry, except 0D617.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 0D617.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 0D617.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “software” in 0D617.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” directly related to articles controlled by USML Category XIII is subject to the control of USML paragraph XIII(l). (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” (other than “software” controlled in paragraph .y of this entry) “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 0A617 (except 0A617.y), 0B617, or 0C617.
b. to x. [Reserved].
y. Specific “software” “specially designed” for the “production,” “development,” operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A617.y.
0D977 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of commodities controlled by 0A977.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC1
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0D977.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0D999 Specific Software, as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT license requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
RS applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Software for neutronic calculations/modeling;
b. Software for radiation transport calculations/modeling;
c. Software for hydrodynamic calculations/modeling.

# E. “Technology”
0E001 “Technology,” according to the Nuclear Technology Note, for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items described in 0A002, or 0D001.
Heading Note:
“Technology” for certain items subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110) is subject to the export licensing authority of the Department of Energy (see 10 CFR part 810).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
Control(s):
“Technology” for items described in 0A002 and 0D001 (applies to “software” in 0D001 for items described in 0A002 only) is subject to the export licensing authority of the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (see 22 CFR part 121).
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The List of Items Controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0E501 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of commodities controlled by 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, 0A509, or 0B501 as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “technology” in ECCN 0E501.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See USML Category I for technical data directly related to articles described in USML Category I.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A501 (other than 0A501.y), 0A506, 0A507, 0A509, or 0B501.
b. “Technology” “required” for the operation, installation, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A501 (other than 0A501.y), 0A506, 0A507, 0A509, or 0B501.
0E502 “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of commodities controlled by 0A502, 0A508, or 0A509.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See USML Category I for technical data directly related to articles described in USML Category I.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0E504 “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of commodities controlled by 0A504 that incorporate a focal plane array or image intensifier tube.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, CC, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0E505 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by 0A505.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, CC, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to “technology” for “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing commodities in 0A505.a and .x; for equipment for those commodities in 0B505; and for “software” for that equipment and those commodities in 0D505
NS Column 1
RS applies to “technology” for “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing commodities in 0A505.a and .x; for equipment for those commodities in 0B505 and for “software” for those commodities and that equipment in 0D505
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
CC applies to “technology” for the “development” or “production” of commodities in 0A505.a, .b, and .x
CC Column 2
AT applies to “technology” for “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing commodities in 0A505.a, .d, and .x
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “technology” in 0E505.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See USML Category III for technical data directly related to articles described in USML Category III.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in this ECCN heading.
0E521 Any technology subject to the EAR that is not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which is controlled for export because it provides at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons.
0E521 technology is subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0E521. The list of technologies determined to be classified under
ECCN 0E521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0E521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.
0E602 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by 0A602 or 0B602, or “software” controlled by 0D602 as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1 of the EAR for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 0E602.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category II are “subject to the ITAR.”
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
“Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A602 or 0B602, or “software” controlled by ECCN 0D602.
0E604 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A604 or 0B604, or “software” controlled by ECCN 0D604 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in this ECCN 0E604.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category IV are controlled under USML Category IV(i).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A604 or 0B604, or “software” controlled by ECCN 0D604.
b. [Reserved]
0E606 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbushing of ground vehicles and related commodities in 0A606, 0B606, 0C606, or software in 0D606 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0E606.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry, except 0E606.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 0E606.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 0E606.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any technology in 0D606.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category VII are subject to the controls of USML paragraph VII(h).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (except for ECCNs 0A606.b or 0A606.y), 0B606, or 0C606.
b. through x. [Reserved]
y. Specific “technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of commodities or software in ECCN 0A606.y or 0D606.y.
0E614 “Technology,” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any technology in 0E614.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
“Technical data” directly related to articles enumerated in USML Category IX is subject to the control of USML paragraph IX(e).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items
: a. “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or “software” controlled by ECCNs 0A614, 0B614, or 0D614.
b. [Reserved]
0E617 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A617, “equipment” controlled by 0B617, or materials controlled by 0C617, or “software” controlled by ECCN 0D617 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 0E617.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry, except 0E617.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 0E617.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 0E617.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any technology in 0E617.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to articles controlled by USML Category XIII are subject to the control of USML paragraph XIII(l).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” (other than “technology” controlled by paragraph .y of this entry) “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or “software” controlled by ECCN 0A617 (except 0A617.y), 0B617, 0C617, or 0D617 (except 0D617.y).
b. through x. [Reserved].
y. Specific “technology” “required” for the “production,” “development,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A617.y or “software” controlled by 0D617.y.
0E977 “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of commodities controlled by 0A977.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC1
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used for 0E977.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
0E982 “Technology” exclusively for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by 0A982 or 0A503.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s)
CC applies to “technology” for items controlled by 0A982 or 0A503. A license is required for ALL destinations, except Canada, regardless of end use. Accordingly, a column specific to this control does not appear on the Commerce Country Chart. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information.)
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
EAR99 Items subject to the EAR that are not elsewhere specified in this CCL Category or in any other category in the CCL are designated by the number EAR99.

# Category 1—Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals, “Microorganisms,” and “Toxins”
Note:
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) may control exports of items subject to the EAR and on the Commerce Control List. BIS provides cross references to these other agency controls for convenience only. Therefore, please consult relevant FDA and DEA regulations for guidance related to the item you wish to export and do not rely solely on the EAR for information about other agency export control requirements. See Supplement No. 3 to part 730 (Other U.S. Government Departments and Agencies with Export Control Responsibilities) for more information.

# A. “End Items”, “Equipment”, “Accessories”, “Attachments”, “Parts”, “Components”and “Systems”
1A001 “Parts” and “components” made from fluorinated compounds, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$5000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Items “specially designed” or modified for missiles or for items on the U.S. Munitions List are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XXI).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Seals, gaskets, sealants or fuel bladders, “specially designed” for “aircraft” or aerospace use, made from more than 50% by weight of any of the materials controlled by 1C009.b or 1C009.c;
b. [Reserved]
1A002 “Composite” structures or laminates, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to 1A002.b.1 in the form of tubes with an inside diameter between 75 mm and 400 mm
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1,500; N/A for NP; N/A for “composite” structures or laminates controlled by 1A002.a, having an organic “matrix” and made from materials controlled by 1C010.c or 1C010.d.
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this entry to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 1A202, 1C010, 1C210, 9A010, and 9A110. (3) “Composite” structures “specially designed” for missile applications (including “specially designed” subsystems, “parts,” and “components”) are controlled by ECCN 9A110. (4) “Composite” structures or laminates “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Made from any of the following:
a.1. An organic “matrix” and “fibrous or filamentary materials” specified by 1C010.c or 1C010.d;
or
a.2. Prepregs or preforms specified by 1C010.e;
b. Made from a metal or carbon “matrix”, and any of the following:
b.1. Carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” having all of the following:
b.1.a. A “specific modulus” exceeding 10.15 x 10
6
m;
and
b.1.b. A “specific tensile strength” exceeding 17.7 x 10
4
m;
or
b.2. Materials controlled by 1C010.c.
Note 1:
1A002 does not control “composite” structures or laminates made from epoxy resin impregnated carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials”, for the repair of “civil aircraft” structures or laminates, having all of the following:
a. An area not exceeding 1 m
2
;
b. A length not exceeding 2.5 m; and
c. A width exceeding 15 mm.
Note 2:
1A002 does not control semi-finished items, “specially designed” for civilian applications as follows:
a. Sporting goods;
b. Automotive industry;
c. Machine tool industry;
d. Medical applications.
Note 3:
1A002.b.1 does not apply to semi-finished items containing a maximum of two dimensions of interwoven filaments and “specially designed” for applications as follows:
a. Metal heat-treatment furnaces for tempering metals;
b. Silicon boule production equipment.
Note 4:
1A002 does not apply to finished items “specially designed” for a specific application.
Note 5:
1A002.b.1 does not apply to mechanically chopped, milled, or cut carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” 25.0 mm or less in length.
1A003 Manufactures of non-“fusible” aromatic polyimides in film, sheet, tape or ribbon form having any of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$200
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
This entry does not control manufactures when coated or laminated with copper and designed for the production of electronic printed circuit boards. For “fusible” aromatic polyimides in any form, see 1C008.a.3.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A thickness exceeding 0.254 mm; or
b. Coated or laminated with carbon, graphite, metals or magnetic substances.
1A004 Protective and detection equipment and “components”, not “specially designed” for military use, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, CB, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
CB applies to chemical detection systems and dedicated detectors therefor, in 1A004.c, that also have the technical characteristic
CB Column 2
RS apply to 1A004.d
RS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
Yes for 1A004.a, .b, and .c.2.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1A995, 2B351, and 2B352. (2) See ECCN 1D003 for “software” “specially designed” or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of equipment controlled under section 1A004.c (Nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) detection systems). (3) See ECCN 1E002.g for control libraries (parametric technical databases) “specially designed” or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of equipment controlled under 1A004.c (Nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) detection systems). (4) Chemical and biological protective and detection equipment specifically designed, developed, modified, configured, or adapted for military applications is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XIV(f)), as is commercial equipment that incorporates “parts” or “components” controlled under that category except for domestic preparedness devices for individual protection that integrate “components” and “parts” identified in USML Category XIV(f)(4) when such “parts” or “components” are: Integral to the device; inseparable from the device; and incapable of replacement without compromising the effectiveness of the device, in which case the equipment is subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce under ECCN 1A004. (5) This entry does not control radionuclides incorporated in equipment listed in this entry—such materials are subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (See 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
(1) 'Biological agents' means: pathogens or toxins, selected or modified (such as altering purity, shelf life, virulence, dissemination characteristics, or resistance to UV radiation) to produce casualties in humans or animals, degrade equipment or damage crops or the environment. (2) 'Riot control agents' are substances which, under the expected conditions of use for riot control purposes, produce rapidly in humans sensory irritation or disabling physical effects which disappear within a short time following termination of exposure. (Tear gases are a subset of 'riot control agents.')
Items:
a. Full face masks, filter canisters and decontamination equipment therefor, designed or modified for defense against any of the following, and “specially designed” “components” therefor:
Note:
1A004.a includes Powered Air Purifying Respirators (PAPR) that are designed or modified for defense against agents or materials, listed in 1A004.a.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 1A004.a:
1. Full face masks are also known as gas masks.
2. Filter canisters include filter cartridges.
a.1. 'Biological agents';
a.2. 'Radioactive materials';
a.3. Chemical warfare (CW) agents;
or
a.4.
'
Riot control agents', as follows:
a.4.a. α-Bromobenzeneacetonitrile, (Bromobenzyl cyanide) (CA) (CAS 5798-79-8);
a.4.b. [(2-chlorophenyl) methylene] propanedinitrile, (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile) (CS) (CAS 2698-41-1);
a.4.c. 2-Chloro-1-phenylethanone, Phenylacyl chloride (ω-chloroacetophenone) (CN) (CAS 532-27-4);
a.4.d. Dibenz-(b,f)-1,4-oxazephine, (CR) (CAS 257-07-8);
a.4.e. 10-Chloro-5, 10-dihydrophenarsazine, (Phenarsazine chloride), (Adamsite), (DM) (CAS 578-94-9);
a.4.f. N-Nonanoylmorpholine, (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9);
b. Protective suits, gloves and shoes, “specially designed” or modified for defense against any of the following:
b.1. 'Biological agents';
b.2. 'Radioactive materials';
or
b.3. Chemical warfare (CW) agents;
c. Detection systems, “specially designed” or modified for detection or identification of any of the following, and “specially designed” “components” therefor:
c.1. 'Biological agents';
c.2. 'Radioactive materials';
or
c.3. Chemical warfare (CW) agents;
d. Electronic equipment designed for automatically detecting or identifying the presence of “explosives” (as listed in the annex at the end of Category 1) residues and utilizing 'trace detection' techniques (
e.g.,
surface acoustic wave, ion mobility spectrometry, differential mobility spectrometry, mass spectrometry).
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1A004.d, 'trace detection' is defined as the capability to detect less than 1 ppm vapor, or 1 mg solid or liquid.
Note 1:
1A004.d does not apply to equipment “specially designed” for laboratory use.
Note 2
:
1A004.d does not apply to non-contact walk-through security portals.
Note:
1A004 does not control:
a. Personal radiation monitoring dosimeters;
b. Occupational health or safety equipment limited by design or function to protect against hazards specific to residential safety or civil industries, including:
1. Mining;
2. Quarrying;
3. Agriculture;
4. Pharmaceutical;
5. Medical;
6. Veterinary;
7. Environmental;
8. Waste management;
9. Food industry.
Technical Notes:
1.
1A004 includes equipment, “components” that have been 'identified,' successfully tested to national standards or otherwise proven effective, for the detection of or defense against 'radioactive materials' 'biological agents,' chemical warfare agents, 'simulants' or “riot control agents,” even if such equipment or “components” are used in civil industries such as mining, quarrying, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, medical, veterinary, environmental, waste management, or the food industry.
2.
'Simulant': A substance or material that is used in place of toxic agent (chemical or biological) in training, research, testing or evaluation.
3.
For the purposes of 1A004, 'radioactive materials' are those selected or modified to increase their effectiveness in producing casualties in humans or animals, degrading equipment or damaging crops or the environment.
1A005 Body armor and “specially designed” “components” therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
License Requirements Notes:
1. Soft body armor not manufactured to military standards or specifications must provide ballistic protection equal to or less than NIJ level III (NIJ 0101.06, July 2008) to be controlled under 1A005.a. 2. For purposes of 1A005.a, military standards and specifications include, at a minimum, specifications for fragmentation protection.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
Yes, except UN
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Bulletproof and bullet resistant vests (body armor) providing NIJ Type IV protection or greater are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR 121.1 Category X(a)). (2) Soft body armor and protective garments manufactured to military standards or specifications that provide protection equal to or less than NIJ level III or
“equivalent standards” are classified under ECCN 1A613.d.1. (3) Hard armor plates providing NIJ level III or “equivalent standard” ballistic protection are classified under ECCN 1A613.d.2. (4) Police helmets and shields are classified under ECCN 0A979. (5) Other personal protective “equipment” “specially designed” for military applications not controlled by the USML or elsewhere in the CCL is classified under ECCN 1A613.e. (6) For “fibrous or filamentary materials” used in the manufacture of body armor, see ECCN 1C010.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Soft body armor not manufactured to military standards or specifications, or to their equivalents, and “specially designed” “components” therefor;
b. Hard body armor plates that provide ballistic protection less than NIJ level III (NIJ 0101.06, July 2008) or “equivalent standards”.
Notes to ECCN 1A005:
1. This entry does not control body armor when accompanying its user for the user's own personal protection.
2. This entry does not control body armor designed to provide frontal protection only from both fragment and blast from non-military explosive devices.
3. This entry does not apply to body armor designed to provide protection only from knife, spike, needle or blunt trauma.
1A006 Equipment, “specially designed” or modified for the disposal of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), as follows (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control: NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
License Requirement Note:
1A006 does not apply to equipment when accompanying its operator.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Equipment “specially designed” for military use for the disposal of IEDs is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category IV).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Remotely operated vehicles;
b. 'Disruptors'.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1A006.b 'disruptors' are devices “specially designed” for the purpose of preventing the operation of an explosive device by projecting a liquid, solid or frangible projectile.
Note:
1A006 does not apply to equipment when accompanying its operator.
1A007 Equipment and devices, “specially designed” to initiate charges and devices containing “energetic materials,” by electrical means, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to 1A007.b, as well as 1A007.a when the detonator firing set meets or exceeds the parameters of 3A229
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
High explosives and related equipment “specially designed” for military use are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). This entry does not control detonators using only primary explosives, such as lead azide. See also ECCNs 0A604, 3A229, and 3A232. See 1E001 for “development” and “production” technology controls, and 1E201 for “use” technology controls.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Explosive detonator firing sets designed to drive explosive detonators specified by 1A007.b;
b. Electrically driven explosive detonators as follows:
b.1. Exploding bridge (EB);
b.2. Exploding bridge wire (EBW);
b.3. Slapper;
b.4. Exploding foil initiators (EFI).
Technical Notes:
1. The word initiator or igniter is sometimes used in place of the word detonator.
2. For the purposes of 1A007.b, the detonators of concern all utilize a small electrical conductor (bridge, bridge wire, or foil) that explosively vaporizes when a fast, high-current electrical pulse is passed through it. In non slapper types, the exploding conductor starts a chemical detonation in a contacting high explosive material such as PETN (pentaerythritoltetranitrate). In slapper detonators, the explosive vaporization of the electrical conductor drives a flyer or slapper across a gap, and the impact of the slapper on
an explosive starts a chemical detonation. The slapper in some designs is driven by magnetic force. The term exploding foil detonator may refer to either an EB or a slapper-type detonator.
1A008 Charges, devices and “components”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, UN, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3,000 for .a through .c; $6,000 for .d.
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) All of the following are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130):
a. High explosives and related equipment “specially designed” for military use;
b. Explosive devices or charges in this entry that utilize USML controlled energetic materials (See 22 CFR 121.1 Category V), if they have been specifically designed, developed, configured, adapted, or modified for a military application;
c. Shaped charges that have all of the following a uniform shaped conical liner with an included angle of 90 degrees or less, more than 2.0 kg of controlled materials, and a diameter exceeding 4.5 inches;
d. Detonating cord containing greater than 0.1 kg per meter (470 grains per foot) of controlled materials;
e. Cutters and severing tools containing greater than 10 kg of controlled materials;
f. With the exception of cutters and severing tools, devices or charges controlled by this entry where the USML controlled materials can be easily extracted without destroying the device or charge;
and
g. Individual USML controlled energetic materials in this entry, even when compounded with other materials, when not incorporated into explosive devices or charges controlled by this entry or 1C992.
(2) See also ECCNs 1C011, 1C018, 1C111, 1C239,
and
1C608 for additional controlled energetic materials. See ECCN
1E001
for the “development” or “production” “technology” for the commodities controlled by ECCN 1A008, but not for explosives or commodities that are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. 'Shaped charges' having all of the following:
a.1. Net Explosive Quantity (NEQ) greater than 90 g;
and
a.2. Outer casing diameter equal to or greater than 75 mm;
b. Linear shaped cutting charges having all of the following, and “specially designed” “components” therefor:
b.1. An explosive load greater than 40 g/m;
and
b.2. A width of 10 mm or more;
c. Detonating cord with explosive core load greater than 64 g/m;
d. Cutters, not specified by 1A008.b, and severing tools, having a NEQ greater than 3.5 kg.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1A008.a, 'shaped charges' are explosive charges shaped to focus the effects of the explosive blast.
Note:
The only charges and devices specified in 1A008 are those containing “explosives” (see list of explosives in the Annex at the end of Category 1) and mixtures thereof.
1A101 Devices for reduced observables such as radar reflectivity, ultraviolet/infrared signatures and acoustic signatures, for applications usable in rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km or their complete subsystems.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also
1C101.
(2) For commodities that meet the definition of defense articles under 22 CFR 120.3 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), describes similar commodities “subject to the ITAR” (See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XIII).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1A102 Resaturated pyrolized carbon-carbon “parts” and “components” designed for rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km. (These items are “subject to the ITAR.” See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
1A202 Composite structures, other than those controlled by 1A002, in the form of
tubes and having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E201 (“use”) and 1E202 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 1A002, 1C010, 1C210, 9A010, and 9A110. (3) “Composite” structures “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. An inside diameter of between 75 mm and 400 mm;
and
b. Made with any of the “fibrous or filamentary materials” specified in 1C010.a or .b or 1C210.a or with carbon prepreg materials specified in 1C210.c.
1A225 Platinized catalysts “specially designed” or prepared for promoting the hydrogen isotope exchange reaction between hydrogen and water for the recovery of tritium from heavy water or for the production of heavy water.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E201 (“use”) and 1E202 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for the production of heavy water is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1A226 Specialized packings, which may be used in separating heavy water from ordinary water, having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E201 (“use”) and 1E202 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for the production of heavy water is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Made of phosphor bronze mesh chemically treated to improve wettability;
and
b. Designed to be used in vacuum distillation towers.
1A227 High-density (lead glass or other) radiation shielding windows, having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” frames therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E201 (“use”) and 1E202 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for nuclear reactors and reprocessing facilities is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
In 1A227.a, the term “cold area” means the viewing area of the window exposed to the lowest level of radiation in the design application.
Items:
a. A “cold area” greater than 0.09 m
2
;
b. A density greater than 3 g/cm
3
; and
c. A thickness of 100 mm or greater.
1A231 Target assemblies and components for the production of tritium as follows (See List of Items Controlled):
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supplement No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
AT applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Target assemblies made of or containing lithium enriched in the lithium-6 isotope “specially designed” for the “production” of tritium through irradiation, including insertion in a nuclear reactor;
b. Components “specially designed” for the target assemblies specified in item a.
Technical Note to ECCN 1A231.b.:
Components “specially designed” for target assemblies for the “production” of tritium may include lithium pellets, tritium getters, and specially-coated cladding.
1A290 Depleted uranium (any uranium containing less than 0.711% of the isotope U-235) in shipments of more than 1,000 kilograms in the form of shielding contained in X-ray units, radiographic exposure or teletherapy devices, radioactive thermoelectric generators, or packaging for the transportation of radioactive materials.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) This entry does not control depleted uranium in fabricated forms for use in munitions. See 22 CFR part 121 for depleted uranium “subject to the ITAR. (2) Depleted uranium that is not fabricated for use in munitions or fabricated into commodities solely to take advantage of its high density (e.g., aircraft, ship, or other counterweights) or in the forms listed in this entry are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (See 10 CFR part 110.) (3) “Natural uranium” or “depleted uranium” or thorium in the form of metal, alloy, chemical compound or concentrate and any other material containing one or more of the foregoing are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1A607 Military dissemination “equipment” for riot control agents, military detection and protection “equipment” for toxicological agents (including chemical, biological, and riot control agents), and related commodities (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1A607.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Vaccines identified in ECCN 1C991 are not controlled by this ECCN. (2) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(h), for vaccines that are subject to the ITAR. (3) Protection and detection equipment and related items identified in ECCN 1A004, 1A995, or 2B351 are not controlled by this ECCN. (4) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(f), for dissemination, detection and protection equipment that is subject to the ITAR. (5) See ECCN 0A919 for “military commodities” located and produced outside the United States that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. through d. [Reserved]
e. “Equipment” “specially designed” for military use and for the dissemination of any of the riot control agents controlled in ECCN 1C607.a.
f. Protection “equipment” (including air conditioning units, protective coatings, and protective clothing):
f.1. Not controlled by USML Category XIV(f);
and
f.2. “Specially designed” for military use and for defense against:
f.2.1. Materials specified by USML Category XIV (a) or (b);
or
f.2.2. Riot control agents controlled in 1C607.a.
g. Decontamination “equipment”:
g.1. Not controlled by USML Category XIV(f);
and
g.2. “Specially designed” for military use and for decontamination of objects contaminated with materials controlled by USML Category XIV(a) or (b).
h. “Equipment”:
h.1. Not controlled by USML Category XIV(f);
and
h.2. “Specially designed” for military use and for the detection or identification of:
h.2.1. Materials specified by USML Category XIV(a) or (b);
or
h.2.2. Riot control agents controlled by ECCN 1C607.a.
i. [Reserved]
j. “Equipment” “specially designed” to:
j.1. Interface with a detector, shelter, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft controlled by the USML or a “600 series” ECCN;
and
j.2. Collect and process samples of articles controlled in USML Category XIV(a) or (b).
k. Medical countermeasures that are “specially designed” for military use (including pre- and post-treatments, antidotes, and medical diagnostics) and “specially designed” to counter chemical agents controlled by the USML Category XIV(a).
Note:
Examples of “equipment” controlled by this entry are barrier and non-barrier creams and filled autoinjectors (e.g., combopens where one injector contains 2-PAM and the other atropine) if “specially designed” to counter such agents.
l. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or for a defense article controlled by USML Category XIV(f) and that are not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in the USML.
1A613 Armored and protective “equipment” and related commodities, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except 1A613.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry except 1A613.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies 1A613.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 1A613.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1A613.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Defense articles, such as materials made from classified information, that are controlled by USML Category X or XIII of the ITAR, and technical data (including software) directly related thereto, are “subject to the ITAR.” (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a de minimis amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content. (3) See ECCN 9A610.g for anti-gravity suits (“G-suits”) and pressure suits capable of operating at altitudes higher than 55,000 feet above sea level. (4) For other military helmet “components” or “accessories” not specified in 1A613.c, see the relevant ECCN in the CCL or USML Entry.
Related Definitions:
References to “NIJ Type” protection are to the National Institute of Justice Classification guide at NIJ Standard 0101.06, Ballistic Resistance of Body Armor, and NIJ Standard 0108.01, Ballistic Resistant Protective Materials.
Items:
a. Metallic or non-metallic armored plate “specially designed” for military use and not controlled by the USML.
Note to paragraph a:
For controls on body armor plates, see ECCN 1A613.d.2 and USML Category X(a)(1).
b. Shelters “specially designed” to:
b.1. Provide ballistic protection for military systems;
or
b.2. Protect against nuclear, biological, or chemical contamination.
c. Military helmets (other than helmets controlled under 1A613.y.1) providing less than NIJ Type IV or “equivalent standards” protection.
Note 1:
See ECCN 0A979 for controls on police helmets.
Note 2:
See USML Category X(a)(5) and (a)(6) for controls on other military helmets.
Note 3:
1A613.c does not apply to helmets that meet all the following:
a. Were first manufactured before 1970; and
b. Are neither designed or modified to accept, nor equipped with items specified by the U.S.
Munitions List (22 CFR 121) or another “600 series” ECCN.
d. Body armor and protective garments, as follows:
d.1. Soft body armor and protective garments manufactured to military standards or specifications, or to their equivalents, that provide ballistic protection equal to or less than NIJ level III (NIJ 0101.06, July 2008) or “equivalent standards”;
or
Note:
For 1A613.d.1, military standards or specifications include, at a minimum, specifications for fragmentation protection.
d.2. Hard body armor plates that provide ballistic protection equal to NIJ level III (NIJ 0101.06, July 2008) or “equivalent standards”.
Note:
See ECCN 1A005 for controls on soft body armor not manufactured to military standards or specifications and hard body armor plates providing less than NIJ level III or “equivalent standards” protection. For body armor providing NIJ Type IV protection or greater, see USML Category X(a)(1).
e. Atmospheric diving suits “specially designed” for rescue operations for submarines controlled by the USML or the CCL.
f. Other personal protective “equipment” “specially designed” for military applications not controlled by the USML, not elsewhere controlled on the CCL.
g. to w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by ECCN 1A613 (except for 1A613.y) or an article enumerated in USML Category X, and not controlled elsewhere in the USML.
Note:
1A613.x includes forgings, castings, and other unfinished products, such as extrusions and machined bodies, that have reached a stage in manufacturing where they are clearly identifiable by mechanical properties, material composition, geometry, or function as commodities specified in ECCN 1A613.x.
y. Other commodities as follows:
y.1 Conventional military steel helmets.
Note:
1A613.y.1 does not apply to helmets that meet all the following:
a. Were first manufactured before 1970; and
b. Are neither designed or modified to accept, nor equipped with items specified by the U.S. Munitions List (22 CFR 121) or another “600 series” ECCN.
N.B. to paragraph y.1:
For other military helmet “components” or “accessories,” see the relevant ECCN in the CCL or USML Entry.
y.2 [Reserved]
1A984 Chemical agents, including tear gas formulation containing 1 percent or less of orthochlorobenzalmalononitrile (CS), or 1 percent or less of chloroacetophenone (CN), except in individual containers with a net weight of 20 grams or less; liquid pepper except when packaged in individual containers with a net weight of 3 ounces (85.05 grams) or less; smoke bombs; non-irritant smoke flares, canisters, grenades and charges; and other pyrotechnic articles having dual military and commercial use, and “parts” and “components” “specially designed” therefor, n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1A985 Fingerprinting powders, dyes, and inks.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CC
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CC applies to entire entry
CC Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See 3A981.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1A995 Protective and detection equipment not “specially designed” for military use and not controlled by ECCN 1A004 or ECCN 2B351, as follows (see List of Items Controlled), and “parts” and “components” not “specially designed” for military use and not controlled by ECCN 1A004 or ECCN 2B351 therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related controls:
See ECCNs 1A004, 2B351, and 2B352.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Personal radiation monitoring dosimeters;
b. Equipment limited by design or function to protect against hazards specific to civil industries, such as mining, quarrying, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, medical, veterinary, environmental, waste management, or to the food industry.
Note:
This entry (1A995) does not control items for protection against chemical or biological agents that are consumer goods, packaged for retail sale or personal use, or medical products, such as latex exam gloves, latex surgical gloves, liquid disinfectant soap, disposable surgical drapes, surgical gowns, surgical foot covers, and surgical masks. Such items are classified as EAR99.
1A999 Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s., as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
Country Chart.
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Radiation detection, monitoring and measurement equipment, n.e.s.;
b. Radiographic detection equipment such as x-ray converters, and storage phosphor image plates.

# B. “Test”, “Inspection” and “Production Equipment”
1B001 Equipment for the production or inspection of “composite” structures or laminates controlled by 1A002 or “fibrous or filamentary materials” controlled by 1C010, as follows (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to entire entry, except 1B001.d.4, e and f.
Note:
MT applies to equipment in 1B001.d that meet or exceed the parameters of 1B101
MT Column 1
NP applies to filament winding machines described in 1B001.a that are capable of winding cylindrical rotors having a diameter between 75 mm (3 in) and 400 mm (16 in) and lengths of 600 mm (24 in) or greater; AND coordinating and programming controls and precision mandrels for these filament winding machines
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A for MT and for 1B001.a; $5000 for all other items
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 1D001 for software for items controlled by this entry and see ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 1B101 and 1B201.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Filament winding machines, of which the motions for positioning, wrapping and winding fibers are coordinated and programmed in three or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, “specially designed” for the manufacture of “composite” structures or laminates, from “fibrous or filamentary materials”;
b. 'Tape laying machines', of which the motions for positioning and laying tape are coordinated and programmed in five or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, “specially designed” for the manufacture of “composite” airframe or missile structures;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1B001.b, 'tape-laying machines' have the ability to lay one or more 'filament bands' limited to widths greater than 25.4 mm and less than or equal to 304.8 mm, and to cut and restart individual 'filament band' courses during the laying process.
c. Multidirectional, multidimensional weaving machines or interlacing machines, including adapters and modification kits, “specially designed” or modified for weaving, interlacing or braiding fibers for “composite” structures;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1B001.c the technique of interlacing includes knitting.
d. Equipment “specially designed” or adapted for the production of reinforcement fibers, as follows:
d.1. Equipment for converting polymeric fibers (such as polyacrylonitrile, rayon, pitch or polycarbosilane) into carbon fibers or silicon carbide fibers, including special equipment to strain the fiber during heating;
d.2. Equipment for the chemical vapor deposition of elements or compounds, on heated filamentary substrates, to manufacture silicon carbide fibers;
d.3. Equipment for the wet-spinning of refractory ceramics (such as aluminum oxide);
d.4. Equipment for converting aluminum containing precursor fibers into alumina fibers by heat treatment;
e. Equipment for producing prepregs controlled by 1C010.e by the hot melt method;
f. Non-destructive inspection equipment “specially designed” for “composite” materials, as follows:
f.1. X-ray tomography systems for three dimensional defect inspection;
f.2. Numerically controlled ultrasonic testing machines of which the motions for positioning transmitters or receivers are simultaneously coordinated and programmed in four or more axes to follow the three dimensional contours of the “part” or “component” under inspection;
g. Tow-placement machines, of which the motions for positioning and laying tows are coordinated and programmed in two or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, “specially designed” for the manufacture of “composite” airframe or missile structures.
Technical Note to 1B001.g:
For the purposes of 1B001.g, 'tow-placement machines' have the ability to place one or more 'filament bands' having widths less than or equal to 25.4 mm, and to cut and restart individual 'filament band' courses during the placement process.
Technical Notes for 1B001:
1.
For the purposes of 1B001, 'primary servo positioning' axes control, under computer “program” direction, the position of the end effector (i.e., head) in space relative to the work piece at the correct orientation and direction to achieve the desired process.
2.
For the purposes of 1B001, a 'filament band' is a single continuous width of fully or partially resin-impregnated tape, tow or fiber. Fully or partially resin-impregnated 'filament bands' include those coated with dry powder that tacks upon heating.
1B002 Equipment designed to produce metal alloy powder or particulate materials and having any of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$5000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Specially designed” to avoid contamination;
and
b. “Specially designed” for use in one of the processes specified by 1C002.c.2.
1B003 Tools, dies, molds or fixtures, for “superplastic forming” or “diffusion bonding” titanium, aluminum or their alloys, “specially designed” for the manufacture of any of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$5000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
For “specially designed”“production equipment”of systems, sub-systems, and “parts” and “components” controlled by 9A005 to 9A009, 9A011, 9A101, 9A105 to 9A109, 9A111, and 9A116 to 9A120 usable in “missiles,” see 9B115.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Airframe or aerospace structures;
b. “Aircraft” or aerospace engines;
or
c. “Specially designed” “parts” and “components” for structures specified by 1B003.a or for engines specified by 1B003.b.
1B018 Items on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
MT applies to equipment for the “production” of rocket propellants
MT Column 1.
RS applies to 1B018.a
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$3000 for 1B018.a for countries WITHOUT an “X” in RS Column 2 on the Country Chart contained in Supplement No. 1 to part 738 of the EAR;
$5000 for 1B018.b.
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 1B608.a, .b, and .x for items that, immediately prior to July 1, 2014, were classified under 1B018.a.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. [Reserved]
1B101 Equipment, other than that controlled by 1B001, for the “production” of structural composites, fibers, prepregs or preforms, usable for rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km and their subsystems, as follows (see List of Items Controlled); and “specially designed” “parts,” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to filament winding machines described in 1B101.a that are capable of winding cylindrical rotors having a diameter between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) and lengths of 600 mm (24 in.) or greater AND to coordinating and programming controls and precision mandrels for these filament winding machines
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 1D101 for software for items controlled by this entry and see ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. Also see 1B201.
Related Definitions:
Examples of “parts,” “components” and accessories for the machines controlled by this entry are molds, mandrels, dies, fixtures and tooling for the preform pressing, curing, casting, sintering or bonding of composite structures, laminates and manufactures thereof.
Items:
a. Filament winding machines or 'fiber/tow-placement machines,' of which the motions for positioning, wrapping and winding fibers can be coordinated and programmed in three or more axes, designed to fabricate composite structures or laminates from fibrous or filamentary materials, and coordinating and programming controls;
b. 'Tape-laying machines' of which the motions for positioning and laying tape can be coordinated and programmed in two or more axes, designed for the manufacture of composite airframe and missile structures;
Technical Notes for paragraphs a and b:
For the purposes of 1B101.a. and 1B101.b., the following definitions apply:
1. 'Fiber/tow-placement machines' and 'tape-laying machines' are machines that perform similar processes that use computer-guided heads to lay one or several 'filament bands' onto a mold to create a part or a structure. These machines have the ability to cut and restart individual 'filament band' courses during the laying process.
2. A 'filament band' is a single continuous width of fully or partially resin-impregnated tape, tow, or fiber. Fully or partially resin-impregnated 'filament bands' include those coated with dry powder that tacks upon heating.
3. 'Fiber/tow-placement machines' have the ability to place one or more 'filament bands' having widths less than or equal to 25.4 mm. This refers to the minimum width of material the machine can place, regardless of the upper capability of the machine.
4. 'Tape-laying machines' have the ability to place one or more 'filament bands' having widths less than or equal to 304.8 mm, but cannot place 'filament bands' with a width equal to or less than 25.4 mm. This refers to the minimum width of material the machine can place, regardless of the upper capability of the machine.
c. Equipment designed or modified for the “production” of “fibrous or filamentary materials” as follows:
c.1. Equipment for converting polymeric fibers (such as polyacrylonitrile, rayon or polycarbosilane) including special provision to strain the fiber during heating;
c.2. Equipment for the vapor deposition of elements or compounds on heated filament substrates; and
c.3. Equipment for the wet-spinning of refractory ceramics (such as aluminum oxide);
d. Equipment designed or modified for special fiber surface treatment or for producing prepregs and preforms controlled by 9A110.
Note:
Equipment covered in 1B101.d includes but is not limited to, rollers, tension stretchers, coating equipment, cutting equipment and clicker dies.
1B102 Metal powder “production equipment,” other than that specified in 1B002, and “parts” and “components” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
1. See also 1B115.b.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Metal powder “production equipment” usable for the “production”, in a controlled environment, of spherical, spheroidal or atomized materials specified in 1C011.a., 1C011.b., 1C111.a.1., 1C111.a.2., or controlled for MT reasons in Category V of the USML.
b. “Specially designed” “parts” and “components” for “production equipment” specified in 1B002 or 1B102.a.
Note:
1B102 includes:
a. Plasma generators (high frequency arc-jet) usable for obtaining sputtered or spherical metallic powders with organization of the process in an argon-water environment;
b. Electroburst equipment usable for obtaining sputtered or spherical metallic powders with organization of the process in an argon-water environment;
c. Equipment usable for the “production” of spherical aluminum powders by powdering a melt in an inert medium (e.g., nitrogen).
1B115 “Equipment, other than that controlled in 1B002 or 1B102, for the “production” of propellant or propellant constituents (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
For the control of batch mixers, continuous mixers and fluid energy mills, see 1B117, 1B118 and 1B119.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Production equipment” for the “production”, handling or acceptance testing of liquid propellants or propellant constituents controlled by 1C011.a, 1C011.b, 1C111 or on the U.S. Munitions List;
b. “Production equipment,” for the production, handling, mixing, curing, casting, pressing, machining, extruding or acceptance testing of solid propellants or propellant constituents described in 1C011.a, 1C011.b or 1C111, or on the U.S. Munitions List.
Note:
1B115.b does not control batch mixers, continuous mixers or fluid energy mills. For the control of batch mixers, continuous mixers and fluid energy mills see 1B117, 1B118, and 1B119.
Note 1:
[Reserved]
Note 2:
1B115 does not control equipment for the “production,” handling and acceptance testing of boron carbide.
1B116 “Specially Designed” nozzles for producing pyrolitically derived materials formed on a mold, mandrel or other substrate from precursor gases which decompose in the 1,573 K (1,300 °C) to 3,173 K (2,900 °C) temperature range at pressures of 130 Pa to 20 kPa.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1B117 Batch mixers having all of the following (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See 1B115, 1B118, and 1B119.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Capable of mixing under vacuum in the range from zero to 13.326 kPa;
b. Capable of controlling the temperature of the mixing chamber;
c. A total volumetric capacity of 110 liters (30 gallons) or more;
and
d. At least one 'mixing/kneading shaft' mounted off center.
Note to paragraph d:
In 1B117.d. the term 'mixing/kneading shaft' does not refer to deagglomerators or knife-spindles.
1B118 Continuous mixers having all of the following (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See 1B115, 1B117, and 1B119.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Capable of mixing under vacuum in the range from zero to 13.326 kPa;
b. Capable of controlling the temperature of the mixing chamber;
and
c. Either of the following:
c.1. Two or more mixing/kneading shafts;
or
c.2. A single rotating and oscillating shaft with kneading teeth/pins as well as kneading teeth/pins inside the casing of the mixing chamber.
1B119 Fluid energy mills usable for grinding or milling propellant or propellant constituents specified in 1C011.a, 1C011.b or 1C111, or on the U.S. Munitions List, and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See 1B115, 1B117 and 1B118.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1B201 Filament winding machines (other than those controlled by ECCN 1B001 or 1B101) and related equipment, as described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 1D201 for software for items controlled by this entry and see ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. Also see ECCN 1E203 for technology for the “development” of software controlled by ECCN 1D201.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Filament winding machines having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Having motions for positioning, wrapping, and winding fibers coordinated and programmed in two or more axes;
a.2. “Specially Designed” to fabricate composite structures or laminates from “fibrous or filamentary materials”;
and
a.3. Capable of winding cylindrical tubes with an internal diameter between 75 mm and 650 mm and lengths of 300 mm or greater;
b. Coordinating and programming controls for filament winding machines controlled by 1B201.a;
c. Precision mandrels for filament winding machines controlled by 1B201.a.
1B225 Electrolytic cells for fluorine production with a production capacity greater than 250 g of fluorine per hour.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs
1E001
(“development” and “production”) and
1E201
(“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) See ECCN 1B999 for specific processing equipment, n.e.s.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1B226 Electromagnetic isotope separators designed for, or equipped with, single or multiple ion sources capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Electromagnetic isotope separators “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (2) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry includes separators capable of enriching stable isotopes and separators with the ion sources and collectors both in the magnetic field and those configurations in which they are external to the field.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1B228 Hydrogen cryogenic distillation columns having all of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for the production of heavy water is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (2) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
(1) The term “fine grain stainless steels,” for purposes of this ECCN, means fine grain austenitic stainless steels with an ASTM (or equivalent standard) grain size number of 5 or greater. (2) The term “effective length,” for purposes of this ECCN, means the active height of packing material in a packed-type column, or the active height of internal contactor plates in a plate-type column.
Items:
a. Designed to operate with internal temperatures of 35 K (−238 °C) or less;
b. Designed to operate at an internal pressure of 0.5 to 5 MPa (5 to 50 atmospheres);
c. Constructed of “fine-grain stainless steels” of the 300 series with low sulphur content or equivalent cryogenic and H
2
-compatible materials;
and
d. With internal diameters of 30 cm or greater and “effective lengths” of 4 m or greater.
1B230 Pumps capable of circulating solutions of concentrated or dilute potassium amide catalyst in liquid ammonia (KNH
2
/NH
3
), having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for the production of heavy water is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (2) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Airtight (i.e., hermetically sealed);
b. A capacity greater than 8.5 m
3
/h;
and
c. Either of the following characteristics:
c.1. For concentrated potassium amide solutions (1% or greater), an operating pressure of 1.5 to 60 MPa (15-600 atmospheres);
or
c.2. For dilute potassium amide solutions (less than 1%), an operating pressure of 20 to 60 MPa (200-600 atmospheres).
1B231 Tritium facilities or plants, and equipment therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Tritium, tritium compounds, and mixtures containing tritium are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (2) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Facilities or plant for the production, recovery, extraction, concentration, or handling of tritium;
b. Equipment for tritium facilities or plant, as follows:
b.1. Hydrogen or helium refrigeration units capable of cooling to 23 K (−250 °C) or less, with heat removal capacity greater than 150 watts;
or
b.2. Hydrogen isotope storage or hydrogen isotope purification systems using metal hydrides as the storage, or purification medium.
1B232 Turboexpanders or turboexpander-compressor sets having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Equipment “specially designed” or prepared for the production of heavy water is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (2) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Designed for operation with an outlet temperature of 35 K (−238 °C) or less;
and
b. Designed for a throughput of hydrogen gas of 1,000 kg/h or greater.
1B233 Lithium isotope separation facilities or plants, and systems and equipment therefor (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to 1B233.b
NP Column 1
AT applies to 1B233.b
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and ECCN 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items described in this entry. (2) Facilities and plants described in 1B233.a are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (3) Certain lithium isotope separation equipment and components for the plasma separation process (PSP) that are described in 1B233.b through .d are also directly applicable to uranium isotope separation and are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Facilities or plants for the separation of lithium isotopes;
b. Equipment for the separation of lithium isotopes based on the lithium-mercury amalgam process, as follows:
b.1. Packed liquid-liquid exchange columns “specially designed” for lithium amalgams;
b.2. Mercury and/or lithium amalgam pumps;
b.3. Lithium amalgam electrolysis cells;
b.4. Evaporators for concentrated lithium hydroxide solution.
c. Ion exchange systems “specially designed” for lithium isotope separation, and “specially designed” component parts therefor;
d. Chemical exchange systems (employing crown ethers, cryptands, or lariat ethers) “specially designed” for lithium isotope separation, and “specially designed” component parts therefor.
1B234 High explosive containment vessels, chambers, containers, and other similar containment devices, not enumerated in ECCN 1B608 or in USML Category IV or V of the ITAR, designed for the testing of high explosives or explosive devices and having both of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Devices “specially designed” for the handling, control, activation, monitoring, detection, protection, discharge, or detonation of the articles enumerated in USML Category IV(a) and (b) are controlled by USML Category IV(c) of the ITAR (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). (2) See USML Category V of the ITAR (22 CFR parts 120 through 130) for devices identified therein that are “specially designed” to fully contain explosives enumerated in USML Category V. (3) Also see ECCN 1B608 for “equipment” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Designed to fully contain an explosion equivalent to 2 kg of TNT or greater;
and
b. Having design elements or features enabling real time or delayed transfer of diagnostic or measurement information.
1B607 Military test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities identified in ECCN 1A607 or 1C607, or defense articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XIV (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1B607.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2B350 for controls on certain incinerators. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for “military commodities” located and produced outside the United States that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Equipment” “specially designed” for the destruction of the chemical agents controlled by USML Category XIV(a).
Note to 1B607.a:
ECCN 1B607.a includes controls over facilities “specially designed” for destruction operations. This paragraph .a does not control incinerators and “specially designed” handling facilities or “specially designed” waste supply systems therefor.
b. Test facilities and “equipment” “specially designed” for military certification, qualification, or testing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or by USML Category XIV(f), except for XIV(f)(1).
c. Tooling and “equipment” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f .g, .h, or .j or USML Category XIV(f).
d. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity controlled by ECCN 1B607.b or .c, or for a defense article controlled by USML Category XIV(f), and that are not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in the USML.
1B608 Test, inspection, and production “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated in ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
MT applies to equipment “specially designed” for MT-controlled commodities in ECCN 1C608 or MT articles in USML Category V
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1B608.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Defense articles that are enumerated in USML Category V, and technical data (including software) directly related thereto, are “subject to the ITAR”. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content. (3) See ECCN 1B115 for controls on “production equipment,” not controlled by this ECCN 1B608, for propellants or propellant constituents described in ECCN 1C011.a, 1C011.b, or 1C111 or in USML Category V.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Equipment” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.

# Note to paragraph
a

# :
ECCN 1B608.a. includes: (1) Continuous nitrators; (2) dehydration presses;
(3) cutting machines for the sizing of extruded propellants; (4) sweetie barrels (tumblers) 6 feet or more in diameter and having over 500 pounds product capacity; (5) convection current converters for the conversion of materials listed in USML Category V(c)(2); and (6) extrusion presses for the extrusion of small arms, cannon and rocket propellants.
b. Complete installations “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.
c. Environmental test facilities “specially designed” for the certification, qualification, or testing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V.
d. through w. [Reserved]
x. “Parts,” “components,” “accessories” and “attachments” that are “specially designed” for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.
1B613 Test, inspection, and “production” “equipment” and related commodities “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A613 or USML Category X, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1B613.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Test, inspection, and “production” “equipment,” not controlled by USML Category X(c), that is “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A613 or USML Category X.
b. Plasma pressure compaction (P2C) “equipment” “specially designed” for the “production” of ceramic or composite body armor plates controlled by ECCN 1A613 or USML Category X.
1B999 Specific processing equipment, n.e.s., as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or Pakistan or transfer within Iraq or Pakistan for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
AT applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT license requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1B001, 1B101, 1B201, 1B225, and 1D999
Related Definitions
: N/A
Items:
a. Electrolytic cells for fluorine production, n.e.s.
b. Particle accelerators.
c. Industrial process control hardware/systems designed for power industries, n.e.s.
d. Freon and chilled water cooling systems capable of continuous cooling duties of 100,000 BTU/hr (29.3 kW) or greater.
e. Equipment for the production of structural composites, fibers, prepregs and preforms, n.e.s.
1C001 Materials “specially designed” for absorbing electromagnetic radiation, or intrinsically conductive polymers, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
MT applies to items that meet or exceed the parameters of ECCN 1C101
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this entry to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1C101.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Materials for absorbing frequencies exceeding 2 × 10
8
Hz but less than 3 × 10
12
Hz.
Note 1:
1C001.a does not control:
a. Hair type absorbers, constructed of natural or synthetic fibers, with non-magnetic loading to provide absorption;
b. Absorbers having no magnetic loss and whose incident surface is non-planar in shape, including pyramids, cones, wedges and convoluted surfaces;
c. Planar absorbers, having all of the following:
1. Made from any of the following:
a. Plastic foam materials (flexible or non-flexible) with carbon-loading, or organic materials, including binders, providing more than 5% echo compared with metal over a bandwidth exceeding ±15% of the center frequency of the incident energy, and not capable of withstanding temperatures exceeding 450 K (177 °C); or
b. Ceramic materials providing more than 20% echo compared with metal over a bandwidth exceeding ±15% of the center frequency of the incident energy, and not capable of withstanding temperatures exceeding 800 K (527 °C);
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C001.a Note 1.c.1, absorption test samples should be a square at least 5 wavelengths of the center frequency on a side and positioned in the far field of the radiating element.
2. Tensile strength less than 7 × 10
6
N/m
2
; and
3. Compressive strength less than 14 × 10
6
N/m
2
;
d. Planar absorbers made of sintered ferrite, having all of the following:
1. A specific gravity exceeding 4.4; and
2. A maximum operating temperature of 548 K (275 °C) or less;
e. Planar absorbers having no magnetic loss and fabricated from 'open-cell foams' plastic material with a density of 0.15 grams/cm
3
or less.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C001.a Note e., 'open-cell foams' are flexible and porous materials, having an inner structure open to the atmosphere. 'Open-cell foams' are also known as reticulated foams.
Note 2:
Nothing in Note 1 releases magnetic materials to provide absorption when contained in paint.
b. Materials not transparent to visible light and “specially designed” for absorbing near-infrared radiation having a wavelength exceeding 810 nm but less than 2,000 nm (frequencies exceeding 150 THz but less than 370 THz);
Note:
1C001.b does not apply to materials, “specially designed” or formulated for any of the following applications:
a. “Laser” marking of polymers; or
b. “Laser” welding of polymers.
c. Intrinsically conductive polymeric materials with a 'bulk electrical conductivity' exceeding 10,000 S/m (Siemens per meter) or a 'sheet (surface) resistivity' of less than 100 ohms/square, based on any of the following polymers:
c.1. Polyaniline;
c.2. Polypyrrole;
c.3. Polythiophene;
c.4. Poly phenylene-vinylene;
or
c.5. Poly thienylene-vinylene.
Note:
1C001.c does not apply to materials in a liquid form.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C001.c, 'bulk electrical conductivity' and 'sheet (surface) resistivity' should be determined using ASTM D-257 or national equivalents.
1C002 Metal alloys, metal alloy powder and alloyed materials, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to 1C002.b.3 or b.4 if they exceed the parameters stated in 1C202
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000; N/A for NP
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 1C202. (3) Aluminum alloys and titanium alloys in physical forms and finished products “especially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definition:
N/A
Items:
Note:
1C002 does not control metal alloys, metal alloy powder and alloyed materials, specially formulated for coating purposes.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C002, metal alloys are those containing a higher percentage by weight of the stated metal than of any other element.
a. Aluminides, as follows:
a.1. Nickel aluminides containing a minimum of 15% by weight aluminum, a maximum of 38% by weight aluminum and at least one additional alloying element;
a.2. Titanium aluminides containing 10% by weight or more aluminum and at least one additional alloying element;
b. Metal alloys, as follows, made from the powder or particulate material controlled by 1C002.c:
b.1. Nickel alloys having any of the following:
b.1.a. A 'stress-rupture life' of 10,000 hours or longer at 923 K (650 °C) at a stress of 676 MPa;
or
b.1.b. A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10,000 cycles or more at 823 K (550 °C) at a maximum stress of 1,095 MPa;
b.2. Niobium alloys having any of the following:
b.2.a. A 'stress-rupture life' of 10,000 hours or longer at 1,073 K (800 °C) at a stress of 400 MPa;
or
b.2.b. A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10,000 cycles or more at 973 K (700 °C) at a maximum stress of 700 MPa;
b.3. Titanium alloys having any of the following:
b.3.a. A 'stress-rupture life' of 10,000 hours or longer at 723 K (450 °C) at a stress of 200 MPa;
or
b.3.b. A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10,000 cycles or more at 723 K (450 °C) at a maximum stress of 400 MPa;
b.4 Aluminum alloys having any of the following:
b.4.a. A tensile strength of 240 MPa or more at 473 K (200 °C);
or
b.4.b. A tensile strength of 415 MPa or more at 298 K (25 °C);
b.5. Magnesium alloys having all the following:
b.5.a. A tensile strength of 345 MPa or more; and
b.5.b. A corrosion rate of less than 1 mm/year in 3% sodium chloride aqueous solution measured in accordance with ASTM standard G-31 or national equivalents;
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 1C002.b:
1. 'Stress-rupture life' should be measured in accordance with ASTM standard E-139 or national equivalents.
2. 'Low cycle fatigue life' should be measured in accordance with ASTM Standard E-606 'Recommended Practice for Constant-Amplitude Low-Cycle Fatigue Testing' or national equivalents. Testing should be axial with an average stress ratio equal to 1 and a stress-concentration factor (K
t
) equal to 1. The average stress ratio is defined as maximum stress minus minimum stress divided by maximum stress.
c. Metal alloy powder or particulate material, having all of the following:
c.1. Made from any of the following composition systems:
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C002.c.1, X equals one or more alloying elements.
c.1.a. Nickel alloys (Ni-Al-X, Ni-X-Al) qualified for turbine engine “parts” or “components,”
i.e.,
with less than 3 non-metallic particles (introduced during the manufacturing process) larger than 100 µm in 109 alloy particles;
c.1.b. Niobium alloys (Nb-Al-X or Nb-X-Al, Nb-Si-X or Nb-X-Si, Nb-Ti-X or Nb-X-Ti);
c.1.c. Titanium alloys (Ti-Al-X or Ti-X-Al);
c.1.d. Aluminum alloys (Al-Mg-X or Al-X-Mg, Al-Zn-X or Al-X-Zn, Al-Fe-X or Al-X-Fe);
or
c.1.e. Magnesium alloys (Mg-Al-X or Mg-X-Al);
c.2. Made in a controlled environment by any of the following processes:
c.2.a. 'Vacuum atomization';
c.2.b. 'Gas atomization';
c.2.c. 'Rotary atomization';
c.2.d. 'Splat quenching';
c.2.e. 'Melt spinning' and 'comminution';
c.2.f. 'Melt extraction' and 'comminution';
c.2.g. 'Mechanical alloying';
or
c.2.h. 'Plasma atomization';
and
c.3. Capable of forming materials controlled by 1C002.a or 1C002.b;
d. Alloyed materials, having all the following:
d.1. Made from any of the composition systems specified by 1C002.c.1;
d.2. In the form of uncomminuted flakes, ribbons or thin rods;
and
d.3. Produced in a controlled environment by any of the following:
d.3.a. 'Splat quenching';
d.3.b. 'Melt spinning';
or
d.3.c. 'Melt extraction'.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 1C002:
1. 'Vacuum atomization' is a process to reduce a molten stream of metal to droplets of a diameter of 500 µm or less by the rapid evolution of a dissolved gas upon exposure to a vacuum.
2. 'Gas atomization' is a process to reduce a molten stream of metal alloy to droplets of 500 µm diameter or less by a high pressure gas stream.
3. 'Rotary atomization' is a process to reduce a stream or pool of molten metal to droplets of a diameter of 500 µm or less by centrifugal force.
4. 'Splat quenching' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' a molten metal stream impinging upon a chilled block, forming a flake-like product.
5. 'Melt spinning' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' a molten metal stream impinging upon a rotating chilled block, forming a flake, ribbon or rod-like product.
6. 'Comminution' is a process to reduce a material to particles by crushing or grinding.
7. 'Melt extraction' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' and extract a ribbon-like alloy product by the insertion of a short segment of a rotating chilled block into a bath of a molten metal alloy.
8. 'Mechanical alloying' is an alloying process resulting from the bonding, fracturing and rebonding of elemental and master alloy powders by mechanical impact. Non-metallic particles may be incorporated in the alloy by addition of the appropriate powders.
9. 'Plasma atomization' is a process to reduce a molten stream or solid metal to droplets of 500 µm diameter or less, using plasma torches in an inert gas environment.
10. For the purposes of 1C002 Technical Notes, 'solidify rapidly' is a process involving the solidification of molten material at cooling rates exceeding 1000 K/sec.
1C003 Magnetic metals, of all types and of whatever form, having any of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Initial relative permeability of 120,000 or more and a thickness of 0.05 mm or less;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C003.a, measurement of initial relative permeability must be performed on fully annealed materials.
b. Magnetostrictive alloys having any of the following:
b.1. A saturation magnetostriction of more than 5 × 104
−4
;
or
b.2. A magnetomechanical coupling factor (k) of more than 0.8;
or
c. Amorphous or 'nanocrystalline' alloy strips, having all of the following:
c.1. A composition having a minimum of 75% by weight of iron, cobalt or nickel;
c.2. A saturation magnetic induction (B
s
) of 1.6 T or more;
and
c.3. Any of the following:
c.3.a. A strip thickness of 0.02 mm or less;
or
c.3.b. An electrical resistivity of 2 × 10
−4
ohm cm or more.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C003.c, 'nanocrystalline' materials are those materials having a crystal grain size of 50 nm or less, as determined by X-ray diffraction.
1C004 Uranium titanium alloys or tungsten alloys with a “matrix” based on iron, nickel or copper, having all of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1C117 and 1C226.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A density exceeding 17.5 g/cm
3
;
b. An elastic limit exceeding 880 MPa;
c. An ultimate tensile strength exceeding 1,270 MPa;
and
d. An elongation exceeding 8%.
1C005 “Superconductive” “composite” conductors in lengths exceeding 100 m or with a mass exceeding 100 g, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Superconductive” “composite” conductors containing one or more niobium-titanium 'filaments', having all of the following:
a.1. Embedded in a “matrix” other than a copper or copper-based mixed “matrix”;
and
a.2. Having a cross-section area less than 0.28 × 10
−4
mm
2
(6 µm in diameter for circular 'filaments');
b. “Superconductive” “composite” conductors consisting of one or more “superconductive” 'filaments' other than niobium-titanium, having all of the following:
b.1. A “critical temperature” at zero magnetic induction exceeding 9.85 K (−263.31 °C); and
b.2. Remaining in the “superconductive” state at a temperature of 4.2 K (−268.96 °C) when exposed to a magnetic field oriented in any direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of conductor and corresponding to a magnetic induction of 12 T with critical current density exceeding 1750 A/mm
2
on overall cross-section of the conductor.
c. “Superconductive” “composite” conductors consisting of one or more “superconductive” 'filaments' which remain “superconductive” above 115 K (−158.16 °C).
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C005, 'filaments' may be in wire, cylinder, film, tape or ribbon form.
1C006 Fluids and lubricating materials, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000
GBS:
Yes for 1C006.d
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also
1C996.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. Lubricating materials containing, as their principal ingredients, phenylene or alkylphenylene ethers or thio-ethers, or their mixtures, containing more than two ether or thio-ether functions or mixtures thereof.
c. Damping or flotation fluids having all of the following:
c.1. Purity exceeding 99.8%;
c.2. Containing less than 25 particles of 200 µm or larger in size per 100 ml; and
c.3. Made from at least 85% of any of the following:
c.3.a. Dibromotetrafluoroethane (CAS 25497-30-7, 124-73-2, 27336-23-8);
c.3.b. Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (oily and waxy modifications only);
or
c.3.c. Polybromotrifluoroethylene;
d. Fluorocarbon fluids designed for electronic cooling and having all of the following:
d.1. Containing 85% by weight or more of any of the following, or mixtures thereof:
d.1.a. Monomeric forms of perfluoropolyalkylether-triazines or perfluoroaliphatic-ethers;
d.1.b. Perfluoroalkylamines;
d.1.c. Perfluorocycloalkanes;
or
d.1.d. Perfluoroalkanes;
d.2. Density at 298 K (25 °C) of 1.5 g/ml or more;
d.3. In a liquid state at 273 K (0 °C);
and
d.4. Containing 60% or more by weight of fluorine.
Note:
1C006.d does not apply to materials specified and packaged as medical products.
1C007 Ceramic powders, ceramic “matrix” “composite” materials and 'precursor materials,' as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to items in 1C007.c when the dielectric constant is less than 6 at any frequency from 100 MHz to 100 GHz for use in “missile” radomes
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$5,000, except N/A for MT and for 1C007.e
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in 1C007.c entry to any of the destinations listed in Country
Group A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1C107
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Ceramic powders of titanium diboride (TiB
2
) (CAS 12045-63-5) having total metallic impurities, excluding intentional additions, of less than 5,000 ppm, an average particle size equal to or less than 5 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 10 µm;
b. [Reserved]
c. Ceramic “matrix” “composite” materials as follows:
c.1. Ceramic-ceramic “composite” materials with a glass or oxide-“matrix” and reinforced with any of the following:
c.1.a. Continuous fibers made from any of the following materials:
c.1.a.1. Al
2
O
3
(CAS 1344-28-1); or
c.1.a.2. Si-C-N; or
Note:
1C007.c.1.a does not apply to “composites” containing fibers with a tensile strength of less than 700 MPa at 1,273 K (1,000 °C) or tensile creep resistance of more than 1% creep strain at 100 MPa load and 1,273 K (1,000 °C) for 100 hours.
c.1.b. Fibers being all of the following:
c.1.b.1. Made from any of the following materials:
c.1.b.1.a. Si-N;
c.1.b.1.b. Si-C;
c.1.b.1.c. Si-Al-O-N;
or
c.1.b.1.d. Si-O-N;
and
c.1.b.2. Having a “specific tensile strength” exceeding 12.7 × 10
3
m;
c.2. Ceramic “matrix” “composite” materials with a “matrix” formed of carbides or nitrides of silicon, zirconium or boron;
N.B.:
For items previously specified by 1C007.c see 1C007.c.1.b.
d. [Reserved]
N.B.:
For items previously specified by 1C007.d see 1C007.c.2.
e. 'Precursor materials' “specially designed” for the “production” of materials controlled by 1C007.c, as follows:
e.1. Polydiorganosilanes;
e.2. Polysilazanes;
e.3. Polycarbosilazanes;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C007, 'precursor materials' are special purpose polymeric or metallo-organic materials used for the “production” of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, or ceramics with silicon, carbon and nitrogen.
f. [Reserved]
N.B.:
For items previously specified by 1C007.f see 1C007.c.1.a.
1C008 Non-fluorinated polymeric substances as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$200
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1A003.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Imides as follows:
a.1. Bismaleimides;
a.2. Aromatic polyamide-imides (PAI) having a 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' exceeding 563 K (290 °C);
a.3. Aromatic polyimides having a 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' exceeding 505 K (232 °C);
a.4. Aromatic polyetherimides having a 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' exceeding 563 K (290 °C);
Note:
1C008.a controls the substances in liquid or solid “fusible” form, including resin, powder, pellet, film, sheet, tape, or ribbon.
N.B.:
For non-“fusible” aromatic polyimides in film, sheet, tape, or ribbon form, see ECCN 1A003.
b. [Reserved]
c. [Reserved]
d. Polyarylene ketones;
e. Polyarylene sulfides, where the arylene group is biphenylene, triphenylene or combinations thereof;
f. Polybiphenylenethersulphone having a 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' exceeding 563 K (290 °C).
Technical Notes:
1. For the purposes of 1C008.a.2 thermoplastic materials, 1C008.a.4 materials, and 1C008.f materials, the 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' is determined using the method described in ISO 11357-2 (1999) or national equivalents.
2. For the purposes of 1C008.a.2 thermosetting materials and 1C008.a.3 materials, the 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' is determined using the 3-point bend method described in ASTM D 7028-07 or equivalent national standard. The test is to be performed using a dry test specimen which has attained a minimum of 90% degree of cure as specified by ASTM E 2160-04 or equivalent national standard, and was cured using the combination of standard- and post-cure processes that yield the highest Tg.
1C009 Unprocessed fluorinated compounds as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
$5000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1A001.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. Fluorinated polyimides containing 10% by weight or more of combined fluorine;
c. Fluorinated phosphazene elastomers containing 30% by weight or more of combined fluorine.
1C010 “Fibrous or filamentary materials” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to 1C010.a (aramid “fibrous or filamentary materials”, b (carbon “fibrous and filamentary materials”), and e.1 for “fibrous and filamentary materials” that meet or exceed the control criteria of ECCN 1C210
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1500, N/A for NP
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in 1C010.c to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 1C210 and 1C990. (3) See also 9C110 for material not controlled by 1C010.e, as defined by notes 1 or 2.
Related Definitions:
(1) “Specific modulus”: Young's modulus in pascals, equivalent to N/m2 divided by specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296+2) K ((23+2) °C) and a relative humidity of (50+5) %. (2) “Specific tensile strength”: ultimate tensile strength in pascals, equivalent to N/m2 divided by specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296+2) K ((23+2) °C) and a relative humidity of (50+5) %.
Items:
Technical Notes:
1.
For the purposes of calculating “specific tensile strength”, “specific modulus” or specific weight of “fibrous or filamentary materials” in 1C010.a, 1C010.b, 1C010.c, or 1C010.e.1.b the tensile strength and modulus should be determined by using Method A described in ISO 10618 (2004) or national equivalents.
2.
For the purposes of assessing the “specific tensile strength”, “specific modulus” or specific weight of non-unidirectional “fibrous or filamentary materials” (e.g., fabrics, random mats or braids) in 1C010, this is to be based on the mechanical properties of the constituent unidirectional monofilaments (e.g., monofilaments, yarns, rovings or tows) prior to processing into the non-unidirectional “fibrous or filamentary materials”.
a. Organic “fibrous or filamentary materials”, having all of the following:
a.1. “Specific modulus” exceeding 12.7 × 10
6
m;
and
a.2. “Specific tensile strength” exceeding 23.5 × 10
4
m;
Note:
1C010.a does not control polyethylene.
b. Carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials”, having all of the following:
b.1. “Specific modulus” exceeding 14.65 × 10
6
m;
and
b.2. “Specific tensile strength” exceeding 26.82 × 10
4
m;
Note:
1C010.b does not control:
a. “Fibrous or filamentary materials”, for the repair of “civil aircraft” structures or laminates, having all of the following:
1. An area not exceeding 1 m
2
;
2. A length not exceeding 2.5 m; and
3. A width exceeding 15 mm.
b. Mechanically chopped, milled or cut carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” 25.0 mm or less in length.
c. Inorganic “fibrous or filamentary materials”, having all of the following:
c.1. Having any of the following:
c.1.a. Composed of 50% or more by weight silicon dioxide (SiO
2
) and having a “specific modulus” exceeding 2.54 × 10
6
m;
or
c.1.b. Not specified in 1C010.c.1.a and having a “specific modulus” exceeding 5.6 × 10
6
m;
and
c.2. Melting, softening, decomposition or sublimation point exceeding 1,922 K (1,649 °C) in an inert environment;
Note:
1C010.c does not control:
a. Discontinuous, multiphase, polycrystalline alumina fibers in chopped fiber or random mat form, containing 3% by weight or more silica, with a “specific modulus” of less than 10 × 10
6
m;
b. Molybdenum and molybdenum alloy fibers;
c. Boron fibers;
d. Discontinuous ceramic fibers with a melting, softening, decomposition or sublimation point lower than 2,043 K (1,770 °C) in an inert environment.
d. “Fibrous or filamentary materials”, having any of the following:
d.1. Composed of any of the following:
d.1.a. Polyetherimides controlled by 1C008.a;
or
d.1.b. Materials controlled by 1C008.b to 1C008.f;
or
d.2. Composed of materials controlled by 1C010.d.1.a or 1C010.d.1.b and 'commingled' with other fibers controlled by 1C010.a, 1C010.b or 1C010.c;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C010.d.2, 'commingled' is filament to filament blending of thermoplastic fibers and reinforcement fibers in order to produce a fiber reinforcement “matrix” mix in total fiber form.
e. Fully or partially resin impregnated or pitch impregnated “fibrous or filamentary materials” (prepregs), metal or carbon coated “fibrous or filamentary materials” (preforms) or 'carbon fiber preforms', having all of the following:
e.1. Having any of the following:
e.1.a. Inorganic “fibrous or filamentary materials” controlled by 1C010.c;
or
e.1.b. Organic or carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials”, having all of the following:
e.1.b.1. “Specific modulus” exceeding 10.15 × 10
6
m; and
e.1.b.2 “Specific tensile strength” exceeding 17.7 × 10
4
m; and
e.2. Having any of the following:
e.2.a. Resin or pitch, controlled by 1C008 or 1C009.b;
e.2.b. 'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA T
g
)' equal to or exceeding 453 K (180 °C) and having a phenolic resin;
or
e.2.c. 'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA T
g
)' equal to or exceeding 505 K (232 °C) and having a resin or pitch, not specified by 1C008 or 1C009.b, and not being a phenolic resin;
Note 1:
Metal or carbon coated “fibrous or filamentary materials” (preforms) or 'carbon fiber preforms', not impregnated with resin or pitch, are specified by “fibrous or filamentary materials” in 1C010.a, 1C010.b or 1C010.c.
Note 2:
1C010.e does not apply to:
a. Epoxy resin “matrix” impregnated carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” (prepregs) for the repair of “civil aircraft” structures or laminates, having all of the following:
1. An area not exceeding 1 m
2
2. A length not exceeding 2.5 m; and
3. A width exceeding 15 mm;
b. Fully or partially resin-impregnated or pitch-impregnated mechanically chopped, milled or cut carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” 25.0 mm or less in length when using a resin or pitch other than those specified by 1C008 or 1C009.b.
Technical Notes:
1.
For the purposes of 1C010.e and Note 1, 'carbon fiber preforms' are an ordered arrangement of uncoated or coated fibers intended to constitute a framework of a part before the “matrix” is introduced to form a “composite”.
2.
For the purposes of 1C010.e.2, 'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA Tg)' is determined using the method described in ASTM D 7028 -07, or equivalent national standard, on a dry test specimen. In the case of thermoset materials, degree of cure of a dry test specimen shall be a minimum of 90% as defined by ASTM E 2160 04 or equivalent national standard.
1C011 Metals and compounds, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to 1C011.a and .b for items that meet or exceed the parameters in 1C111.
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also ECCNs 1C111 and 1C608. (2) All of the following are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130): (a) Materials controlled by 1C011.a, and metal fuels in particle form, whether spherical, atomized, spheroidal, flaked or ground, manufactured from material consisting of 99 percent or more of items controlled by 1C011.b; and (b) Metal powders mixed with other substances to form a mixture formulated for military purposes.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Metals in particle sizes of less than 60 µm whether spherical, atomized, spheroidal, flaked or ground, manufactured from material consisting of 99% or more of zirconium, magnesium and alloys thereof;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 1C011.a, the natural content of hafnium in the zirconium (typically 2% to 7%) is counted with the zirconium.
Note:
The metals or alloys specified by 1C011.a also refer to metals or alloys encapsulated in aluminum, magnesium, zirconium or beryllium.
b. Boron or boron alloys, with a particle size of 60 µm or less, as follows:
b.1. Boron with a purity of 85% by weight or more;
b.2. Boron alloys with a boron content of 85% by weight or more;
Note:
The metals or alloys specified by 1C011.b also refer to metals or alloys encapsulated in aluminum, magnesium, zirconium or beryllium.
c. Guanidine nitrate (CAS 506-93-4);
d. Nitroguanidine (NQ) (CAS 556-88-7).
1C018 Commercial charges and devices containing energetic materials on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List and certain chemicals.
No items currently are in this ECCN. (1) See ECCN 1C608.b. through .m for items that, immediately prior to July 1, 2014 were classified under 1C018.b through .m. (2) See ECCNs 1C011, 1C111, and 1C239 for additional controlled energetic materials, including chlorine trifluoride (ClF
3
), which is controlled under ECCN 1C111.a.3.f. (3) See ECCN 1A008 for shaped charges, detonating cord, and cutters and severing tools.
1C101 Materials for Reduced Observables such as Radar Reflectivity, Ultraviolet/Infrared Signatures and Acoustic Signatures (i.e., Stealth Technology), Other than Those Controlled by 1C001, for applications usable in rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300km, and their subsystems.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Materials controlled by this entry include structural materials and coatings (including paints), “specially designed” for reduced or tailored reflectivity or emissivity in the microwave, infrared or ultraviolet spectra. (2) This entry does not control coatings (including paints) when specially used for the thermal control of satellites. (3) For commodities that meet the definition of defense articles under 22 CFR 120.3 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which describes similar commodities “subject to the ITAR” (See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XIII).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C102 Resaturated pyrolized carbon-carbon materials designed for space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104. (These items are “subject to the ITAR.” See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
1C107 Graphite and Ceramic Materials, Other Than Those Controlled by 1C007, Which Can be Machined to Any of the Following Products as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also 1C004, 1C007, and 1C298. (2) For commodities that meet the definition of defense articles under 22 CFR 120.3 of the ITAR, which describes similar commodities “subject to the ITAR” (See 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XIII). (3) “Special fissile materials” and “other fissile materials”; except, four “effective grams” or less when contained in a sensing component in instruments are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Fine grain graphites with a bulk density of 1.72 g/cm
3
or greater, measured at 15 °C, and having a grain size of 100 micrometers or less, usable for rocket nozzles and reentry vehicle nose tips as follows:
a.1. Cylinders having a diameter of 120 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater;
a.2. Tubes having an inner diameter of 65 mm or greater and a wall thickness of 25 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater;
a.3. Blocks having a size of 120 mm × 120 mm × 50 mm or greater.
b. Pyrolytic or fibrous reinforced graphites, usable for rocket nozzles and reentry vehicle nose tips;
c. Ceramic composite materials (dielectric constant is less than 6 at any frequency from 100 MHz to 100 GHz) for use in radomes useable in rockets, missiles, and unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km;
or
d. High-temperature ceramic materials, useable in rockets, missiles, and unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km, as follows:
d.1. Bulk machinable silicon-carbide reinforced unfired ceramic, usable for nose tips.
d.2. Reinforced silicon-carbide ceramic composites usable for nose tips, re-entry vehicles, nozzle flaps.
d.3. Bulk machinable ceramic composite materials consisting of an 'Ultra High Temperature Ceramic (UHTC)' matrix with a melting point equal to or greater than 3000 °C and reinforced with fibers or filaments, usable for missile components (such as nose tips, re-entry vehicles, leading edges, jet vanes, control surfaces, or rocket motor throat inserts).
Note:
ECCN 1C107.d.3. does not control 'Ultra High Temperature Ceramic (UHTC)' materials in non-composite form.
Technical Note:
'Ultra High Temperature Ceramics (UHTC)' includes: Titanium diboride (TiB
2
), zirconium diboride (ZrB
2
), niobium diboride (NbB
2
), hafnium diboride (HfB
2
), tantalum diboride (TaB
2
), titanium carbide (TiC), zirconium carbide (ZrC), niobium carbide (NbC), hafnium carbide (HfC), tantalum carbide (TaC).
1C111 Propellants and constituent chemicals for propellants, other than those specified in 1C011, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to 1C111.a.3.f only
NP Column 1.
RS applies to 1C111.d.3 only
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See USML Category V(e)(7) for controls on HTPB (hydroxyl terminated polybutadiene) with a hydroxyl functionality equal to or greater than 2.2 and less than or equal to 2.4, a hydroxyl value of less than 0.77 meq/g, and a viscosity at 30 °C of less than 47 poise (CAS #69102-90-5). (2) See USML Category V for controls on ferrocene derivatives, including butacene. (3) See ECCN 1C608 for controls on oxidizers that are composed of fluorine and also other halogens, oxygen, or nitrogen, except for chlorine trifluoride, which is controlled under this ECCN 1C111.a.3.f. (4) See ECCN 1C011.b for controls on boron and boron alloys not controlled under this ECCN 1C111.a.2.b. (5) See USML Category V for controls on Inhibited Red Fuming Nitric Acid (IRFNA) (CAS 8007-58-7).
Related Definitions:
Particle size is the mean particle diameter on a weight or volume basis. Best industrial practices must be used in sampling, and in determining particle size, and the controls may not be undermined by the addition of larger or smaller sized material to shift the mean diameter.
Items:
a. Propulsive substances:
a.1. Spherical or spheroidal aluminum powder (C.A.S. 7429-90-5) in particle size of less than 200 × 10
−6
m (200 µm) and an aluminum content of 97% by weight or more, if at least 10% of the total weight is made up of particles of less than 63 µm, according to ISO 2591-1:1988 or national equivalents.
Technical Note:
A particle size of 63 µm (ISO R-565) corresponds to 250 mesh (Tyler) or 230 mesh (ASTM standard E-11).
a.2. Metal powders and alloys where at least 90% of the total particles by particle volume or weight are made up of particles of less than 60 µ (determined by measurement techniques such as using a sieve, laser diffraction or optical scanning), whether spherical, atomized, spheroidal, flaked or ground, as follows:
a.2.a. Consisting of 97% by weight or more of any of the following:
a.2.a.1. Zirconium (C.A.S. #7440-67-7);
a.2.a.2. Beryllium (C.A.S. #7440-41-7);
or
a.2.a.3. Magnesium (C.A.S. #7439-95-4);
a.2.b. Boron or boron alloys with a boron content of 85% or more by weight.
Technical Note:
The natural content of hafnium in the zirconium (typically 2% to 7%) is counted with the zirconium.
Note:
In a multimodal particle distribution (e.g., mixtures of different grain sizes) in which one or more modes are controlled, the entire powder mixture is controlled.
a.3. Oxidizer substances usable in liquid propellant rocket engines, as follows:
a.3.a. Dinitrogen trioxide (CAS 10544-73-7);
a.3.b. Nitrogen dioxide (CAS 10102-44-0)/dinitrogen tetroxide (CAS 10544-72-6);
a.3.c. Dinitrogen pentoxide (CAS 10102-03-1);
a.3.d. Mixed oxides of nitrogen (MON);
a.3.e. [Reserved];
a.3.f. Chlorine trifluoride (ClF
3
).
Technical Note:
Mixed oxides of nitrogen (MON) are solutions of nitric oxide (NO) in dinitrogen tetroxide/nitrogen dioxide (N
2
O
4
/NO
2
) that can be used in missile systems. There are a range of compositions that can be denoted as MONi or MONij, where i and j are integers representing the percentage of nitric oxide in the mixture (e.g., MON3 contains 3% nitric oxide, MON25 25% nitric oxide. An upper limit is MON40, 40% by weight).
b. Polymeric substances:
b.1. Carboxy-terminated polybutadiene (including carboxyl-terminated polybutadiene) (CTPB);
b.2. Hydroxy-terminated polybutadiene (including hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene) (HTPB) (CAS 69102-90-5), except for hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene as specified in USML Category V (see 22 CFR 121.1)
(also see Related Controls Note #1 for this ECCN);
b.3. Polybutadiene acrylic acid (PBAA);
b.4. Polybutadiene acrylic acid acrylonitrile (PBAN) (CAS 25265-19-4/CAS 68891-50-9);
b.5. Polytetrahydrofuran polyethylene glycol (TPEG).
Technical Note:
Polytetrahydrofuran polyethylene glycol (TPEG) is a block copolymer of poly 1,4-Butanediol (CAS 110-63-4) and polyethylene glycol (PEG) (CAS 25322-68-3).
c. Other propellant energetic materials, additives, or agents:
c.1. [Reserved]
c.2. Triethylene glycol dinitrate (TEGDN);
c.3. 2 Nitrodiphenylamine (2-NDPA);
c.4. Trimethylolethane trinitrate (TMETN);
c.5. Diethylene glycol dinitrate (DEGDN).
d. Hydrazine and derivatives as follows:
d.1. Hydrazine (C.A.S. #302-01-2) in concentrations of 70% or more;
d.2. Monomethyl hydrazine (MMH) (C.A.S. #60-34-4);
d.3. Symmetrical dimethyl hydrazine (SDMH) (C.A.S. #540-73-8);
d.4. Unsymmetrical dimethyl hydrazine (UDMH) (C.A.S. #57-14-7);
d.5. Trimethylhydrazine (C.A.S. #1741-01-1);
d.6. Tetramethylhydrazine (C.A.S. #6415-12-9);
d.7. N,N diallylhydrazine (CAS 5164-11-4);
d.8. Allylhydrazine (C.A.S. #7422-78-8);
d.9. Ethylene dihydrazine (CAS 6068-98-0);
d.10. Monomethylhydrazine dinitrate;
d.11. Unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine nitrate;
d.12. 1,1-Dimethylhydrazinium azide (CAS 227955-52-4)/1,2-Dimethylhydrazinium azide (CAS 299177-50-7);
d.13. Hydrazinium azide (C.A.S. #14546-44-2);
d.14. Hydrazinium dinitrate (CAS 13464-98-7);
d.15. Diimido oxalic acid dihydrazine (C.A.S. #3457-37-2);
d.16. 2-hydroxyethylhydrazine nitrate (HEHN);
d.17. Hydrazinium diperchlorate (C.A.S. #13812-39-0);
d.18. Methylhydrazine nitrate (MHN) (CAS 29674-96-2);
d.19. 1,1-Diethylhydrazine nitrate (DEHN)/1,2-Diethylhydrazine nitrate (DEHN) (CAS 363453-17-2);
d.20. 3,6-dihydrazino tetrazine nitrate (DHTN), also referred to as 1,4-dihydrazine nitrate.
e. Hydrazine replacement fuels as follows:
e.1. 2-Dimethylaminoethylazide (DMAZ) (CAS 86147-04-8);
e.2. [Reserved]
1C116 Maraging steels having both of the following (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
NP applies to items that meet or exceed the parameters of 1C216
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 1C216. (3) Maraging steel, in physical forms and finished products and “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes, is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Having an ultimate tensile strength, measured at 20 °C, equal to or greater than:
a.1. 0.9 GPa in the solution annealed stage;
or
a.2. 1.5 GPa in the precipitation hardened stage;
and
b. Any of the following forms:
b.1 Sheet, plate or tubing with a wall or plate thickness equal to or less than 5.0 mm;
or
b.2 Tubular forms with a wall thickness equal to or less than 50 mm and having an inner diameter equal to or greater than 270 mm.
Technical Note:
Maraging steels are iron alloys that are generally:
a. Characterized by high nickel, very low carbon content and use substitutional elements or precipitates to produce strengthening and age-hardening of the alloy; and
b. Subjected to heat treatment cycles to facilitate the martensitic transformation process (solution annealed stage) and subsequently age hardened (precipitation hardened stage).
1C117 Materials for the fabrication of missile “parts” or “components” for rockets or missiles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See 1C226.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Tungsten and alloys in particulate form with a tungsten content of 97% by weight or more and a particle size of 50 × 10
−6
m (50 µm) or less;
b. Molybdenum and alloys in particulate form with a molybdenum content of 97% by weight or more and a particle size of 50 × 10
−6
m (50 µm) or less;
c. Tungsten materials in the solid form having all of the following:
c.1. Any of the following material compositions:
c.1.a. Tungsten and alloys containing 97% by weight or more of tungsten;
c.1.b. Copper infiltrated tungsten containing 80% by weight or more of tungsten;
or
c.1.c. Silver infiltrated tungsten containing 80% by weight or more of tungsten;
and
c.2. Able to be machined to any of the following products:
c.2.a. Cylinders having a diameter of 120 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater;
c.2.b. Tubes having an inner diameter of 65 mm or greater and a wall thickness of 25 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater;
or
c.2.c. Blocks having a size of 120 mm × 120 mm × 50 mm or greater.
1C118 Titanium-stabilized duplex stainless steel (Ti-DSS), having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Containing 17.0-23.0% by weight of chromium and 4.5-7.0% by weight of nickel;
a.2. Having a titanium content of greater than 0.10% by weight;
and
a.3. A ferritic-austenitic microstructure (also referred to as a two-phase microstructure) of which at least 10% by volume (according to ASTM E-1181-87 or national equivalents) is austenite;
and
b. Having any of the following forms:
b.1. Ingots or bars having a size of 100 mm or more in each dimension;
b.2. Sheets having a width of 600 mm or more and a thickness of 3 mm or less;
or
b.3. Tubes having an outer diameter of 600 mm or more and a wall thickness of 3 mm or less.
1C202 Alloys other than those controlled by 1C002.b.3 or 1C002.b.4 as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 1C002. (3) Aluminum alloys and titanium alloys, in physical forms and finished products and “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes, are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
The phrase “capable of” refers to aluminum alloys and titanium alloys either before or after heat treatment.
Items:
a. Aluminum alloys having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. “Capable of” an ultimate tensile strength of 460 MPa or more at 293 K (20 °C);
and
a.2. In the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside diameter of more than 75 mm;
b. Titanium alloys having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. “Capable of” an ultimate tensile strength of 900 MPa or more at 293 K (20 °C);
and
b.2. In the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside diameter of more than 75 mm.
1C210 “Fibrous or filamentary materials” or prepregs, other than those controlled by 1C010.a, .b or .e, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 1C010 and 1C990.
Related Definitions:
For the purpose of this entry, the term “fibrous or filamentary materials” is restricted to continuous “monofilaments”, “yarns”, “rovings”, “tows”, or “tapes”. Definitions for other terms used in this entry:
Filament or Monofilament
is the smallest increment of fiber, usually several µm in diameter.
Strand
is a bundle of filaments (typically over 200) arranged approximately parallel.
Roving
is a bundle (typically 12-120) of approximately parallel strands.
Yarn
is a bundle of twisted strands.
Tow
is a bundle of filaments, usually approximately parallel.
Tape
is a material constructed of interlaced or unidirectional filaments, strands, rovings, tows, or yarns, etc., usually preimpregnated with resin.
Specific modulus
is the Young's modulus in N/m
2
divided by the specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296 ±2) K ((23 ±2) °C) and a relative humidity of 50 ±5 percent.
Specific tensile strength
is the ultimate tensile strength in N/m
2
divided by specific weight in N/m
3
, measured at a temperature of (296 ±2) K ((23 ±2) °C) and a relative humidity of 50 ±5 percent.
Items:
a. Carbon or aramid “fibrous or filamentary materials” having a “specific modulus” of 12.7 × 10
6
m or greater or a “specific tensile strength” of 235 × 10
3
m or greater
except
Aramid “fibrous or filamentary materials” having 0.25 percent or more by weight of an ester based fiber surface modifier;
b. Glass “fibrous or filamentary materials” having a “specific modulus” of 3.18 × 10
6
m or greater and a “specific tensile strength” of 76.2 × 10
3
m or greater;
or
c. Thermoset resin impregnated continuous “yarns”, “rovings”, “tows” or “tapes” with a width no greater than 15 mm (prepregs), made from carbon or glass “fibrous or filamentary materials” controlled by 1C210.a or .b.

# Technical Note:
The resin forms the matrix of the composite.
1C216 Maraging steel, other than that controlled by 1C116, “capable of” an ultimate tensile strength of 1,950 MPa or more, at 293 K (20 °C).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
(2) Also see ECCN 1C116.
(3) Maraging steel, in physical form and finished products “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes, is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
The phrase “capable of” in the ECCN heading refers to maraging steel either before or after heat treatment.
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control forms in which all linear dimensions are 75 mm or less.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C225 Boron enriched in the boron-10 (
10
B) isotope to greater than its natural isotopic abundance, as follows: elemental boron, compounds, mixtures containing boron, manufactures thereof, waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
In this entry, mixtures containing boron include boron-loaded materials.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Technical Note:
The natural isotopic abundance of boron-10 is approximately 18.5 weight percent (20 atom percent).
1C226 Tungsten, tungsten carbide, and alloys containing more than 90% tungsten by weight, having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control manufactures “specially designed” as weights or gamma-ray collimators.
Items:
a. In forms with a hollow cylindrical symmetry (including cylinder segments) with an inside diameter between 100 and 300 mm;
and
b. A mass greater than 20 kg.
1C227 Calcium having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Containing less than 1,000 parts per million by weight of metallic impurities other than magnesium;
and
b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of boron.
1C228 Magnesium having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Containing less than 200 parts per million by weight of metallic impurities other than calcium;
and
b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of boron.
1C229 Bismuth having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled)
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A purity of 99.99% or greater by weight;
and
b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of silver.
1C230 Beryllium metal, alloys containing more than 50% beryllium by weight, beryllium compounds, manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control the following:
a. Metal windows for X-ray machines, or for bore-hole logging devices;
b. Oxide shapes in fabricated or semi-fabricated forms “specially designed” for electronic component parts or as substrates for electronic circuits;
c. Beryl (silicate of beryllium and aluminum) in the form of emeralds or aquamarines.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C231 Hafnium metal, hafnium alloys and compounds containing more than 60% hafnium by weight, manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C232 Helium-3 (
3
He), mixtures containing helium-3, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control a product or device containing less than 1 g of helium-3.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C233 Lithium enriched in the lithium-6 (
6
Li) isotope to greater than its natural isotopic abundance, and products or devices containing enriched lithium, as follows: elemental lithium, alloys, compounds, mixtures containing lithium, manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) See ECCN 1B233 for lithium isotope separation facilities or plants, and equipment therefor. (3) Certain facilities or plants for the separation of lithium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
The natural isotopic abundance of lithium-6 is approximately 6.5 weight percent (7.5 atom percent).
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control thermoluminescent dosimeters.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C234 Zirconium with a hafnium content of less than 1 part hafnium to 500 parts zirconium by weight, as follows: metal, alloys containing more than 50% zirconium by weight, compounds, manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Zirconium metal and alloys in the form of tubes or assemblies of tubes, “specially designed” or prepared for use in a reactor, are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control zirconium in the form of foil having a thickness of 0.10 mm (0.004 in.) or less.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C235 Tritium, tritium compounds, mixtures containing tritium in which the ratio of tritium to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1 part in 1,000, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 1B231. (3) Tritium that is byproduct material (
e.g.,
produced in a nuclear reactor) is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
(1) This entry does not control tritium, tritium compounds, and mixtures that are byproduct material (e.g., produced in a nuclear reactor)—such materials are subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see Related Controls paragraph for this entry). (2) This entry does not control a product or device containing less than 1.48 × 10
3
GBq (40 Ci) of tritium.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C236 Radionuclides appropriate for making neutron sources based on alpha-n reaction and products or devices containing such radionuclides (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Certain alpha-emitting radionuclides are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control a product or device containing less than 3.7 GBq (100 millicuries) of activity.
Items:
a. Radionuclides identified in 1C236.a.1 in any of the forms described in 1C236.a.2:
a.1. Radionuclides, as follows, appropriate for making neutron sources based on alpha-n reactions:
a.1.a. Actinium 225;
a.1.b. Actinium 227;
a.1.c. Californium 253;
a.1.d. Curium 240;
a.1.e. Curium 241;
a.1.f. Curium 242;
a.1.g. Curium 243;
a.1.h. Curium 244;
a.1.i. Einsteinium 253;
a.1.j. Einsteinium 254;
a.1.k. Gadolinium 148;
a.1.l. Plutonium 236;
a.1.m. Plutonium 238;
a.1.n. Polonium 208;
a.1.o. Polonium 209;
a.1.p. Polonium 210;
a.1.q. Radium 223;
a.1.r. Thorium 227;
a.1.s. Thorium 228;
a.1.t. Uranium 230;
a.1.u. Uranium 232;
and
a.2. In any of the following forms:
a.2.a. Elemental;
a.2.b. Compounds having a total activity of 37 GBq (1 curie) per kg or greater;
or
a.2.c. Mixtures having a total activity of 37 GBq (1 curie) per kg or greater.
b. Products or devices containing radionuclides identified in 1C236.a.1 in any of the forms described in 1C236.a.2.
1C237 Radium-226 (
226
Ra), radium-226 alloys, radium-226 compounds, mixtures containing radium-226, manufactures
thereof, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control the following:
a. Medical applicators;
b. A product or device containing less than 0.37 GBq (10 millicuries) of radium-226.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C239 High explosives, other than those controlled by the U.S. Munitions List, or substances or mixtures containing more than 2% by weight thereof, with a crystal density greater than 1.8 g/cm
3
and having a detonation velocity greater than 8,000 m/s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) See ECCNs 1C608 (energetic materials and related commodities on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List) and 1C992 (commercial charges and devices containing energetic materials, n.e.s and nitrogen trifluoride in a gaseous state). (3) High explosives for military use are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR Part 121.1).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C240 Nickel powder or porous nickel metal, other than nickel powder or porous nickel metal, specially prepared for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110), as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Nickel powder and porous nickel metal, “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes, are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control the following:
a. Filamentary nickel powders;
b. Single porous nickel sheets with an area of 1,000 cm
2
per sheet or less.
Items:
a. Nickel powder having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. A nickel purity content of 99.0% or greater by weight; and
a.2. A mean particle size of less than 10 micrometers measured by American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) B330 standard;
b. Porous nickel metal produced from materials controlled by 1C240.a.
Technical Note:
1C240.b refers to porous metal formed by compacting and sintering the materials in 1C240.a to form a metal material with fine pores interconnected throughout the structure.
1C241 Rhenium and alloys containing rhenium (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Rhenium and alloys containing rhenium, as follows, having both of the characteristics described in 1C241.b:
a.1. Alloys containing 90% by weight or more of rhenium;
a.2. Alloys containing 90% by weight or more of any combination of rhenium and tungsten;
and
b. Having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. In forms with a hollow cylindrical symmetry (including cylinder segments) with an inside diameter between 100 mm and 300 mm;
and
b.2. A mass greater than 20 kg.
1C298 Graphite and deuterium that is intended for use other than in a nuclear reactor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2.
License Requirement Note: The graphite and deuterium, as defined in this entry, when intended for use in a nuclear reactor, is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also 1C107. (2) Graphite having a purity level of less than 5 parts per million “boron equivalent” as measured according to ASTM standard C-1233-98 and intended for use in a nuclear reactor is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (3) Deuterium and any deuterium compound, including heavy water, in which the ratio of deuterium atoms to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000; and intended for use in a nuclear reactor is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
For the purpose of this entry, graphite with a purity level better than 5 parts per million boron equivalent is determined according to ASTM standard C1233-98. In applying ASTM standard C1233-98, the boron equivalence of the element carbon is not included in the boron equivalence calculation, since carbon is not considered an impurity. For the purpose of this entry, 'Deuterium' means deuterium and any deuterium compound, including heavy water, in which the ratio of deuterium atoms to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000.
Items:
a. Graphite with a boron content of less than 5 parts per million and a density greater than 1.5 grams per cubic centimeter that is intended for use other than in a nuclear reactor;
b. 'Deuterium' not for use in a nuclear reactor.
1C350 Chemicals that may be used as precursors for toxic chemical agents (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, CW, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry CB Column 2.
CW applies to 1C350.b and .c. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons. A license is required, for CW reasons, to export or reexport Schedule 2 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C350.b to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR). A license is required, for CW reasons, to export Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C350.c to States not Party to the CWC, unless an End-Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country has been obtained by the exporter prior to export. A license is required, for CW reasons, to reexport Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C350.c from a State not Party to the CWC to any other State not Party to the CWC. (See § 742.18 of the EAR for license requirements and policies for toxic and precursor chemicals controlled for CW reasons. See § 745.2 of the EAR for End-Use Certificate requirements that apply to exports of Schedule 3 chemicals to countries not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR.)
AT applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for AT reasons in 1C350. A license is required, for AT reasons, to export or reexport items controlled by 1C350 to a country in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information on the AT controls that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on sanctions that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria.)
License Requirement Notes
1. SAMPLE SHIPMENTS: Subject to the following requirements and restrictions, a license is not required for
sample shipments when the cumulative total of these shipments does not exceed a 55-gallon container or 200 kg of a single chemical to any one consignee during a calendar year. A consignee that receives a sample shipment under this exclusion may not resell, transfer, or reexport the sample shipment, but may use the sample shipment for any other legal purpose unrelated to chemical weapons.
a. Chemicals Not Eligible
A. [Reserved]
B. CWC Schedule 2 chemicals (States not Party to the CWC). No CWC Schedule 2 chemical or mixture identified in 1C350.b is eligible for sample shipment to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR) without a license.
b. Countries Not Eligible: Countries in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR are not eligible to receive sample shipments of any chemicals controlled by this ECCN without a license.
c. Sample shipments that require an End-Use Certificate for CW reasons: No CWC Schedule 3 chemical or mixture identified in 1C350.c is eligible for sample shipment to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR) without a license, unless an End-Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country is obtained by the exporter prior to export (see § 745.2 of the EAR for End-Use Certificate requirements).
d. Sample shipments that require a license for reasons set forth elsewhere in the EAR: Sample shipments, as described in this Note 1, may require a license for reasons set forth elsewhere in the EAR. See, in particular, the end-use/end-user restrictions in part 744 of the EAR, and the restrictions that apply to embargoed countries in part 746 of the EAR.
e. Annual report requirement. The exporter is required to submit an annual written report for shipments of samples made under this Note 1. The report must be on company letterhead stationery (titled “Report of Sample Shipments of Chemical Precursors” at the top of the first page) and identify the chemical(s), Chemical Abstract Service Registry (C.A.S.) number(s), quantity(ies), the ultimate consignee's name and address, and the date of export for all sample shipments that were made during the previous calendar year. The report must be submitted no later than February 28 of the year following the calendar year in which the sample shipments were made, to: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Room 2099B, Washington, DC 20230, Attn: “Report of Sample Shipments of Chemical Precursors.”
2. MIXTURES:
a. Mixtures that contain precursor chemicals identified in ECCN 1C350, in concentrations that are below the levels indicated in 1C350.b through .d, are controlled by ECCN 1C395 or 1C995 and are subject to the licensing requirements specified in those ECCNs.
b.
A license is not required under this ECCN for a mixture, when the controlled chemical in the mixture is a normal ingredient in consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use. Such consumer goods are designated EAR99. However, a license may be required for reasons set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
Note to Mixtures: Calculation of concentrations of AG-controlled chemicals:
a. Exclusion. No chemical may be added to the mixture (solution) for the sole purpose of circumventing the Export Administration Regulations;
b. Percent Weight Calculation. When calculating the percentage, by weight, of ingredients in a chemical mixture, include all ingredients of the mixture, including those that act as solvents.
3. COMPOUNDS. Compounds created with any chemicals identified in this ECCN 1C350 may be shipped NLR (No License Required), without obtaining an End-Use Certificate, unless those compounds are also identified in this entry or require a license for reasons set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
4. TESTING KITS: Certain medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits containing small quantities of chemicals identified in this ECCN 1C350, are excluded from the scope of this ECCN and are controlled under ECCN 1C395 or 1C995. (Note that replacement reagents for such kits are controlled by this ECCN 1C350 if the reagents contain one or more of the precursor chemicals identified in 1C350 in concentrations equal to or greater than the control levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.)
Technical Notes:
1. For purposes of this entry, a “mixture” is defined as a solid, liquid or gaseous product made up of two or more ingredients that do not react together under normal storage conditions.
2. The scope of this control applicable to Hydrogen Fluoride (see 1C350.d.14 in the List of Items Controlled) includes its liquid, gaseous, and aqueous phases, and hydrates.
3. Precursor chemicals in ECCN 1C350 are listed by name, Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number and CWC Schedule (where applicable). Precursor chemicals of the same structural formula (e.g., hydrates, isotopically-labeled forms or all possible stereoisomers) are controlled by ECCN 1C350, regardless of name or CAS number. CAS numbers are shown to assist in identifying whether a particular precursor chemical or mixture is controlled under ECCN 1C350, irrespective of nomenclature. However, CAS numbers cannot be used as unique identifiers in all situations because some forms of the listed precursor chemical have different CAS numbers, and mixtures containing a precursor chemical listed in ECCN 1C350 may also have different CAS numbers.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See USML Category XIV for related chemical agent binary precursors and key precursors “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
See § 770.2(k) of the EAR for synonyms for the chemicals listed in this entry.
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. Australia Group-controlled precursor chemicals also identified as Schedule 2 chemicals under the CWC, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:
b.1. (C.A.S. #7784-34-1) Arsenic trichloride;
b.2. (C.A.S. #76-93-7) Benzilic acid;
b.3. (C.A.S. #78-38-6) Diethyl ethylphosphonate;
b.4. (C.A.S. #683-08-9) Diethyl methylphosphonate;
b.5. (C.A.S. #15715-41-0) Diethyl methylphosphonite;
b.6. (C.A.S. #2404-03-7) Diethyl-N,N-dimethylphosphoroamidate;
b.7. (C.A.S. #41480-75-5) N,N-Diisopropylaminoethanethiol hydrochloride;
b.8. (C.A.S. #5842-07-9) N,N-Diisopropyl-beta-aminoethane thiol;
b.9. (C.A.S. #96-80-0) N,N-Diisopropyl-beta-aminoethanol;
b.10. (C.A.S. #96-79-7), N,N-Diisopropyl-beta-aminoethyl chloride;
b.11. (C.A.S. #4261-68-1) N,N-Diisopropyl-beta-aminoethyl chloride hydrochloride;
b.12. (C.A.S. #6163-75-3) Dimethyl ethylphosphonate;
b.13. (C.A.S. #756-79-6) Dimethyl methylphosphonate;
b.14. (C.A.S. #677-43-0) N,N-dimethylamino-phosphoryl dichloride;
b.15. (C.A.S. #1498-40-4) Ethyl phosphonous dichloride [Ethyl phosphinyl dichloride];
b.16. (C.A.S. #430-78-4) Ethyl phosphonus difluoride [Ethyl phosphinyl difluoride];
b.17. (C.A.S. #1066-50-8) Ethyl phosphonyl dichloride;
b.18. (C.A.S. #993-13-5) Methylphosphonic acid;
b.19. (C.A.S. #676-98-2) Methylphosphonothioic dichloride.
b.20. (C.A.S. #464-07-3) Pinacolyl alcohol;
b.21. (C.A.S. #1619-34-7) 3-Quinuclidinol;
b.22. (C.A.S. #111-48-8) Thiodiglycol.
c. Australia Group-controlled precursor chemicals also identified as Schedule 3 chemicals under the CWC, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:
c.1. (C.A.S. #762-04-9) Diethyl phosphite;
c.2. (C.A.S. #868-85-9) Dimethyl phosphite (dimethyl hydrogen phosphite);
c.3. (C.A.S. #139-87-7) Ethyldiethanolamine;
c.4. (C.A.S. #10025-87-3) Phosphorus oxychloride;
c.5. (C.A.S. #10026-13-8) Phosphorus pentachloride;
c.6. (C.A.S. #7719-12-2) Phosphorus trichloride;
c.7. (C.A.S. #10545-99-0) Sulfur dichloride;
c.8. (C.A.S. #10025-67-9) Sulfur monochloride;
c.9. (C.A.S. #7719-09-7) Thionyl chloride;
c.10. (C.A.S. #102-71-6) Triethanolamine;
c.11. (C.A.S. #122-52-1) Triethyl phosphite;
c.12. (C.A.S. #121-45-9) Trimethyl phosphite.
d. Other Australia Group-controlled precursor chemicals not also identified as Schedule 1, 2, or 3 chemicals under the CWC, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:
d.1. (C.A.S. #1341-49-7) Ammonium hydrogen fluoride;
d.2. (C.A.S. #107-07-3) 2-Chloroethanol;
d.3. (C.A.S. #109-89-7) Diethylamine;
d.4. (C.A.S. #100-37-8) N,N-Diethylaminoethanol;
d.5. (C.A.S. #589-57-1) Diethyl chlorophosphite;
d.6. (C.A.S. #298-06-6) O,O-Diethyl phosphorodithioate;
d.7. (C.A.S. #2465-65-8) O,O-Diethyl phosphorothioate;
d.8. (C.A.S. #108-18-9) Di-isopropylamine;
d.9. (C.A.S. #124-40-3) Dimethylamine;
d.10. (C.A.S. #506-59-2) Dimethylamine hydrochloride;
d.11. (C.A.S. #142-84-7) Dipropylamine
d.12. (C.A.S. #762-77-6) Ethyl chlorofluorophosphate;
d.13. (C.A.S. #1498-51-7) Ethyl dichlorophosphate;
d.14. (C.A.S. #460-52-6) Ethyl difluorophosphate;
d.15. (C.A.S. #7664-39-3) Hydrogen fluoride;
d.16. (C.A.S. #3554-74-3) 3-Hydroxyl-1-methylpiperidine;
d.17. (C.A.S. #76-89-1) Methyl benzilate;
d.18. (C.A.S. #754-01-8) Methyl chlorofluorophosphate;
d.19. (C.A.S. #677-24-7) Methyl dichlorophosphate;
d.20. (C.A.S. #22382-13-4) Methyl difluorophosphate;
d.21. (C.A.S. #14277-06-6) N,N Diethylacetamidine;
d.22. (C.A.S. #53510-30-8) N,N-Diethylbutanamidine;
d.23. (C.A.S. #90324-67-7) N,N-Diethylformamidine;
d.24. (C.A.S. #1342789-47-2) N,N Diethylisobutanamidine;
d.25. (C.A.S. #84764-73-8) N,N-Diethylpropanamidine;
d.26. (C.A.S. #1315467-17-4) N,N-Diisopropylbutanamidine;
d.27. (C.A.S. #857522-08-8) N,N-Diisopropylformamidine;
d.28. (C.A.S. #2909-14-0) N,N-Dimethylacetamidine;
d.29. (C.A.S. #1340437-35-5) N,N-Dimethylbutanamidine;
d.30. (C.A.S. #44205-42-7) N,N-Dimethylformamidine;
d.31. (C.A.S. #321881-25-8) N,N-Dimethylisobutanamidine;
d.32. (C.A.S. #56776-14-8) N,N-Dimethylpropanamidine;
d.33. (C.A.S. #1339586-99-0) N,N-Dipropylacetamidine;
d.34. C.A.S. #1342422-35-8) N,N-Dipropylbutanamidine;
d.35. (C.A.S. #48044-20-8) N,N-Dipropylformamidine;
d.36. (C.A.S. #1342700-45-1) N,N-Dipropylisobutanamidine;
d.37. (C.A.S. #1341496-89-6) N,N-Dipropylpropanamidine;
d.38. (C.A.S. #1314-80-3) Phosphorus pentasulfide;
d.39. (C.A.S. #75-97-8) Pinacolone;
d.40. (C.A.S. #7789-29-9) Potassium bifluoride;
d.41. (C.A.S. #151-50-8) Potassium cyanide;
d.42. (C.A.S. #7789-23-3) Potassium fluoride;
d.43. (C.A.S. #3731-38-2) 3-Quinuclidone;
d.44. (C.A.S. #1333-83-1) Sodium bifluoride;
d.45. (C.A.S. #143-33-9) Sodium cyanide;
d.46. (C.A.S. #7681-49-4) Sodium fluoride;
d.47. (C.A.S. #16893-85-9) Sodium hexafluorosilicate;
d.48. (C.A.S. #1313-82-2) Sodium sulfide;
d.49. (C.A.S. #637-39-8) Triethanolamine hydrochloride;
d.50. (C.A.S. #116-17-6) Tri-isopropyl phosphite.
1C351 Human and animal pathogens and “toxins,” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, CW, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to items controlled by 1C351.d.15 and .16
CB Column 1.
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
CW applies to 1C351.d.15 and .d.16 and a license is required for CW reasons for all destinations, including Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, as follows: CW applies to 1C351.d.15 for ricin in the form of (1) Ricinus communis AgglutininII (RCA
II
), also known as ricin D or Ricinus Communis LectinIII (RCL
III
) and (2) Ricinus communis LectinIV (RCL
IV
), also known as ricin E. CW applies to 1C351.d.16 for saxitoxin identified by C.A.S. #35523-89-8. See § 742.18 of the EAR for licensing information pertaining to chemicals subject to restriction pursuant to the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC). The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons.
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
Column 1.
License Requirement Notes
1. All vaccines and 'immunotoxins' are excluded from the scope of this entry. Certain medical products and diagnostic and food testing kits that contain biological toxins controlled under 1C351.d, with the exception of toxins controlled for CW reasons under 1C351.d.15 or .d.16, are excluded from the scope of this entry. Vaccines, 'immunotoxins', certain medical products, and diagnostic and food testing kits excluded from the scope of this entry are controlled under ECCN 1C991.
2. Clostridium perfringens strains, other than the epsilon toxin-producing strains of Clostridium perfringens described in 1C351.c.12, are excluded from the scope of this entry, since they may be used as positive control cultures for food testing and quality control.
3. Unless specified elsewhere in this ECCN 1C351
(
e.g., in License Requirement Notes 1-3), this ECCN controls all biological agents and “toxins,” regardless of quantity or attenuation, that are identified in the List of Items Controlled for this ECCN, including small quantities or attenuated strains of select biological agents or “toxins” that are excluded from the lists of select biological agents or “toxins” by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), in accordance with their regulations in 9 CFR part 121 and 42 CFR part 73, respectively.
4. Biological agents and pathogens are controlled under this ECCN 1C351 when they are an isolated live culture of a pathogen agent, or a preparation of a toxin agent that has been isolated or extracted from any source or material, including living material that has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated with the agent. Isolated live cultures of a pathogen agent include live cultures in dormant form or in dried preparations, whether the agent is natural, enhanced or modified.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Certain forms of ricin and saxitoxin in 1C351.d.15 and .d.16 are CWC Schedule 1 chemicals (see § 742.18 of the EAR). The U.S. Government must provide advance notification and annual reports to the OPCW of all exports of Schedule 1 chemicals. See § 745.1 of the EAR for
notification procedures. See 22 CFR part 121, Category XIV for CWC Schedule 1 chemicals that are “subject to the ITAR.” (2) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, maintain controls on the possession, use, and transfer within the United States of certain items controlled by this ECCN (for APHIS, see 7 CFR 331.3(b), 9 CFR 121.3(b), and 9 CFR 121.4(b); for CDC, see 42 CFR 73.3(b) and 42 CFR 73.4(b)). (3) See USML Category XIV for modified biological agents and biologically derived substances that are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
For the purposes of this entry, 'immunotoxins' are monoclonal antibodies linked to a toxin with the intention of destroying a specific target cell while leaving adjacent cells intact.
Items:
a. Viruses identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Human and Animal Pathogens and Toxins for Export Control,” as follows:
a.1. African horse sickness virus;
a.2. African swine fever virus;
a.3. Andes virus;
a.4. Avian influenza (AI) viruses identified as having high pathogenicity (HP), as follows:
a.4.a. AI viruses that have an intravenous pathogenicity index (IVPI) in 6-week-old chickens greater than 1.2;
or
a.4.b. AI viruses that cause at least 75% mortality in 4- to 8-week-old chickens infected intravenously.
Note:
Avian influenza (AI) viruses of the H5 or H7 subtype that do not have either of the characteristics described in 1C351.a.4 (specifically, 1C351.a.4.a or .a.4.b) should be sequenced to determine whether multiple basic amino acids are present at the cleavage site of the haemagglutinin molecule (HA0). If the amino acid motif is similar to that observed for other HPAI isolates, then the isolate being tested should be considered as HPAI and the virus is controlled under 1C351.a.4.
a.5. Bluetongue virus;
a.6. Chapare virus;
a.7. Chikungunya virus;
a.8. Choclo virus;
a.9. Classical swine fever virus (Hog cholera virus);
a.10. Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus;
a.11. Dobrava-Belgrade virus;
a.12. Eastern equine encephalitis virus;
a.13. Ebolavirus (includes all members of the Ebolavirus genus);
a.14. Foot-and-mouth disease virus;
a.15. Goatpox virus;
a.16. Guanarito virus;
a.17. Hantaan virus;
a.18. Hendra virus (Equine morbillivirus);
a.19. Japanese encephalitis virus;
a.20. Junin virus;
a.21. Kyasanur Forest disease virus;
a.22. Laguna Negra virus;
a.23. Lassa virus;
a.24. Louping ill virus;
a.25. Lujo virus;
a.26. Lumpy skin disease virus;
a.27. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus;
a.28. Machupo virus;
a.29. Marburgvirus (includes all members of the Marburgvirus genus);
a.30. Middle East respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS-related coronavirus);
a.31. Monkeypox virus;
a.32. Murray Valley encephalitis virus;
a.33. Newcastle disease virus;
a.34. Nipah virus;
a.35. Omsk hemorrhagic fever virus;
a.36. Oropouche virus;
a.37. Peste-des-petits ruminants virus;
a.38. Porcine Teschovirus;
a.39. Powassan virus;
a.40. Rabies virus and all other members of the Lyssavirus genus;
a.41. Reconstructed 1918 influenza virus;
Technical Note:
1C351.a.41 includes reconstructed replication competent forms of the 1918 pandemic influenza virus containing any portion of the coding regions of all eight gene segments.
a.42. Rift Valley fever virus;
a.43. Rinderpest virus;
a.44. Rocio virus;
a.45. Sabia virus;
a.46. Seoul virus;
a.47. Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-related coronavirus);
a.48. Sheeppox virus;
a.49. Sin Nombre virus;
a.50. St. Louis encephalitis virus;
a.51. Suid herpesvirus 1 (Pseudorabies virus; Aujeszky's disease);
a.52. Swine vesicular disease virus;
a.53. Tick-borne encephalitis virus (Far Eastern subtype, formerly known as Russian Spring-Summer encephalitis virus—see 1C351.b.3 for Siberian subtype);
a.54. Variola virus;
a.55. Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus;
a.56. Vesicular stomatitis virus;
a.57. Western equine encephalitis virus;
or
a.58. Yellow fever virus.
b. Viruses identified on the APHIS/CDC “select agents” lists (see Related Controls paragraph #2 for this ECCN), but not identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Human and Animal Pathogens and Toxins for Export Control,” as follows:
b.1. [Reserved];
b.2. [Reserved];
or
b.3. Tick-borne encephalitis virus (Siberian subtype, formerly West Siberian virus—see 1C351.a.53 for Far Eastern subtype).
c. Bacteria identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Human and Animal Pathogens and Toxins for Export Control,” as follows:
c.1. Bacillus anthracis;
c.2. Brucella abortus;
c.3. Brucella melitensis;
c.4. Brucella suis;
c.5. Burkholderia mallei (Pseudomonas mallei);
c.6. Burkholderia pseudomallei (Pseudomonas pseudomallei);
c.7. Chlamydia psittaci (Chlamydophila psittaci);
c.8. Clostriduim argentinense (formerly known as Clostridium botulinum Type G), botulinum neurotoxin producing strains;
c.9. Clostridium baratii, botulinum neurotoxin producing strains;
c.10. Clostridium botulinum;
c.11. Clostridium butyricum, botulinum neurotoxin producing strains;
c.12. Clostridium perfringens, epsilon toxin producing types;
c.13. Coxiella burnetii;
c.14. Francisella tularensis;
c.15. Mycoplasma capricolum subspecies capripneumoniae (“strain F38”);
c.16. Mycoplasma mycoides subspecies mycoides SC (small colony) (a.k.a. contagious bovine pleuropneumonia);
c.17. Rickettsia prowazekii;
c.18. Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (Salmonella typhi);
c.19. Shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli (STEC) of serogroups O26, O45, O103, O104, O111, O121, O145, O157, and other shiga toxin producing serogroups;
Note:
Shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli (STEC) includes, inter alia, enterohaemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC), verotoxin producing E. coli (VTEC) or verocytotoxin producing E. coli (VTEC).
c.20. Shigella dysenteriae;
c.21. Vibrio cholerae;
or
c.22. Yersinia pestis.
d. “Toxins” identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Human and Animal Pathogens and Toxins for Export Control,” as follows, or their subunits:
d.1. Abrin;
d.2. Aflatoxins;
d.3. Botulinum neurotoxins;
d.4. Brevetoxins;
d.5. Clostridium perfringens alpha, beta 1, beta 2, epsilon and iota toxins;
d.6. Conotoxins;
d.7. Diacetoxyscirpenol;
d.8. Gonyautoxins;
d.9. HT-2 toxin;
d.10. Microcystins (Cyanginosins);
d.11. Modeccin;
d.12. Neosaxitoxin (NEO);
d.13. Nodularins;
d.14. Palytoxin;
d.15. Ricin;
d.16. Saxitoxin;
d.17. Shiga toxins (shiga-like toxins, verotoxins, and verocytotoxins);
d.18. Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins, hemolysin alpha toxin, and toxic shock syndrome toxin (formerly known as Staphylococcus enterotoxin F);
d.19. T-2 toxin;
d.20. Tetrodotoxin;
d.21. Viscumin (Viscum album lectin 1);
or
d.22. Volkensin.
e. “Fungi”, as follows:
e.1. Coccidioides immitis;
or
e.2. Coccidioides posadasii.
1C353 Genetic elements and genetically modified organisms, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to genetic elements of items controlled by 1C351.d.15 and .16
CB Column 1.
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
License Requirements Notes:
1. Vaccines that contain genetic elements or genetically modified organisms identified in this ECCN are controlled by ECCN 1C991.
2. Unless specified elsewhere in this ECCN 1C353 (e.g., in License Requirement Note 1), this ECCN controls genetic elements or genetically modified organisms for all biological agents and “toxins,” regardless of quantity or attenuation, that are identified in the List of Items Controlled for this ECCN, including genetic elements or genetically modified organisms for attenuated strains of select biological agents or “toxins” that are excluded from the lists of select biological agents or “toxins” by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, in accordance with the APHIS regulations in 7 CFR part 331 and 9 CFR part 121 and the CDC regulations in 42 CFR part 73.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, maintain controls on the possession, use, and transfer within the United States of certain items controlled by this ECCN, including (but not limited to) certain genetic elements, recombinant nucleic acids, and recombinant organisms
associated with the agents or toxins in ECCN 1C351 or 1C354 (for APHIS, see 7 CFR 331.3(c), 9 CFR 121.3(c), and 9 CFR 121.4(c); for CDC, see 42 CFR 73.3(c) and 42 CFR 73.4(c)). (2) See USML Category XIV for modified biological agents and biologically derived substances that are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definition:
N/A
Items:
a. Any genetically modified organism that contains, or any genetic element that codes for, any of the following:
a.1. Any gene, genes, translated product or translated products specific to any virus controlled by 1C351.a or .b or 1C354.c;
a.2. Any gene or genes specific to any bacterium controlled by 1C351.c or 1C354.a, or any fungus controlled by 1C351.e or 1C354.b, and which;
a.2.a. In itself or through its transcribed or translated products represents a significant hazard to human, animal or plant health;
or
a.2.b. Could endow or enhance pathogenicity;
or
a.3. Any toxins, or their subunits, controlled by 1C351.d.
b. [Reserved].
Technical Notes:
1. Genetically modified organisms include organisms in which the nucleic acid sequences have been created or altered by deliberate molecular manipulation.
2. “Genetic elements” include, inter alia, chromosomes, genomes, plasmids, transposons, vectors, and inactivated organisms containing recoverable nucleic acid fragments, whether genetically modified or unmodified, or chemically synthesized in whole or in part. For the purposes of this ECCN 1C353, nucleic acids from an inactivated organism, virus, or sample are considered to be 'recoverable' if the inactivation and preparation of the material is intended or known to facilitate isolation, purification, amplification, detection, or identification of nucleic acids.
3. This ECCN does not control nucleic acid sequences of shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli of serogroups O26, O45, O103, O104, O111, O121, O145, O157, and other shiga toxin producing serogroups, other than those genetic elements coding for shiga toxin, or for its subunits.
4. 'Endow or enhance pathogenicity' is defined as when the insertion or integration of the nucleic acid sequence or sequences is/are likely to enable or increase a recipient organism's ability to be used to deliberately cause disease or death. This might include alterations to, inter alia: virulence, transmissibility, stability, route of infection, host range, reproducibility, ability to evade or suppress host immunity, resistance to medical countermeasures, or detectability.
1C354 Plant pathogens, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
License Requirements Notes:
1. All vaccines are excluded from the scope of this ECCN. See ECCN 1C991 for vaccines.
2. Unless specified elsewhere in this ECCN 1C354 (e.g., in License Requirement Note 1), this ECCN controls all biological agents, regardless of quantity or attenuation, that are identified in the List of Items Controlled for this ECCN, including small quantities or attenuated strains of select biological agents that are excluded from the list of PPQ select agents and “toxins” by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, in accordance with their regulations in 7 CFR part 331.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, maintains controls on the possession, use, and transfer within the United States of certain items controlled by this ECCN (see 7 CFR 331.3(c), 9 CFR 121.3(c), and 9 CFR 121.4(c)). (2) See 22 CFR part 121, Category XIV(b), for modified biological agents and biologically derived substances that are subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Bacteria, as follows:
a.1.
Xanthomonas albilineans;
a.2.
Xanthomonas citri pv. citri (Xanthomonas axonopodis
pv.
citri, Xanthomonas campestris
pv.
citri);
a.3.
Xanthomonas oryzae
[this species of proteobacteria is identified on the APHIS “select agents” list (see Related Controls paragraph for this ECCN), but only the pathovar
Xanthomonas oryzae
pv.
oryzae
(syn.
Pseudomonas campestris
pv.
oryzae
) is identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Plant Pathogens for Export Control”];
a.4.
Clavibacter michiganensis
subsp.
sepedonicus
(
Clavibacter sepedonicus, Clavibacter michiganense
subsp.
sepedonicus, Corynebacterium michiganensis
subsp.
sepedonicum, Corynebacterium sepedonicum
);
a.5.
Ralstonia solanacearum,
race 3, biovar 2;
a.6.
Raythayibactor toxicus
[this bacterium is identified on the APHIS “select agents” list (see the Related Controls paragraph for
this ECCN), but is not identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Plant Pathogens for Export Control”].
b. Fungi, as follows:
b.1.
Bipolaris oryzae
(
Cochliobolus miyabeanus, Helminthosporium oryzae
);
b.2.
Colletotrichum kahawae
(
Colletotrichum coffeanum
var.
virulans
);
b.3.
Pseudocercospora ulei
(
Microcyclus ulei, Dothidella ulei
);
b.4.
Puccinnia graminis
ssp.
graminis
var.
graminis/Puccinia graminis
ssp.
graminis
var.
stakmanii
(
Puccinia graminis
[syn.
Puccinia graminis
f. sp.
tritici
]);
b.5.
Puccinia striiformis
(syn.
Puccinia glumarum
);
b.6.
Magnaporthe oryzae
(Pyricularia oryzae);
b.7.
Peronosclerospora philippinensis
(
Peronosclerospora sacchari
);
b.8.
Sclerophthora rayssiae
var.
zeae;
b.9.
Synchytrium endobioticum;
b.10.
Tilletia indica;
b.11.
Thecaphora solani;
b.12.
Phoma glycinicola
(formerly
Pyrenochaeta glycines
) [this fungus is identified on the APHIS “select agents” list (see the Related Controls paragraph for this ECCN), but is not identified on the Australia Group (AG) “List of Plant Pathogens for Export Control”].
c. Viruses, as follows:
c.1. Andean potato latent virus (Potato Andean latent tymovirus);
c.2. Potato spindle tuber viroid.
1C355 Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals and families of chemicals not controlled by ECCN 1C350 or “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts) (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CW, AT.
Control(s)
CW applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons. A license is required to export or reexport CWC Schedule 2 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.a to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR). A license is required to export CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.b to States not Party to the CWC, unless an End Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country is obtained by the exporter, prior to export. A license is required to reexport CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.b from a State not Party to the CWC to any other State not Party to the CWC. (See § 742.18 of the EAR for license requirements and policies for toxic and precursor chemicals controlled for CW reasons.)
AT applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for AT reasons in 1C350. A license is required, for AT reasons, to export or reexport items controlled by 1C350 to a country in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information on the AT controls that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on sanctions that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria.)
License Requirements Notes:
1. MIXTURES:
a. Mixtures containing toxic and precursor chemicals identified in ECCN 1C355, in concentrations that are below the control levels indicated in 1C355.a and .b, are controlled by ECCN 1C995 and are subject to the license requirements specified in that ECCN.
b. Mixtures containing chemicals identified in this entry are not controlled by ECCN 1C355 when the controlled chemical is a normal ingredient in consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use or packaged for individual use. Such consumer goods are classified as EAR99.
Note to mixtures:
Calculation of concentrations of CW-controlled chemicals:
a. Exclusion. No chemical may be added to the mixture (solution) for the sole purpose of circumventing the Export Administration Regulations;
b. Percent Weight Calculation. When calculating the percentage, by weight, of ingredients in a chemical mixture, include all ingredients of the mixture, including those that act as solvents.
2. COMPOUNDS: Compounds created with any chemicals identified in this ECCN 1C355 may be shipped NLR (No License Required), without obtaining an End-Use Certificate, unless those compounds are also identified in this entry or require a license for reasons set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
Technical Notes:
For purposes of this entry, a “mixture” is defined as a solid, liquid or gaseous product made up of two or more ingredients that do not react together under normal storage conditions.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also ECCNs
1C350 1C351,
1C395,
and
1C995.
See §§ 742.18 and 745.2 of the EAR for End-Use Certification requirements.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. CWC Schedule 2 chemicals and mixtures containing Schedule 2 chemicals:
a.1. Toxic chemicals, as follows, and mixtures containing toxic chemicals:
a.1.a. PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene (C.A.S. 382-21-8)
and mixtures in which PFIB constitutes more than 1 percent of the weight of the mixture;
a.1.b. [Reserved]
a.2. Precursor chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following precursor chemicals constitutes more than 10 percent of the weight of the mixture:
a.2.a. Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1, containing a phosphorus atom to which is bonded one methyl, ethyl, or propyl (normal or iso) group but not further carbon atoms.
Note:
1C355.a.2.a does not control Fonofos: O-Ethyl S-phenyl ethylphosphonothiolothionate (C.A.S. 944-22-9).
a.2.b. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidic dihalides;
a.2.c. FAMILY: Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr, or i-Pr)-phosphoramidates;
a.2.d. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and corresponding protonated salts;
a.2.e. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-ols and corresponding protonated salts;
Note:
1C355.a.2.e. does not control N,N-Dimethylaminoethanol and corresponding protonated salts (C.A.S. 108-01-0) or N,N-Diethylaminoethanol and corresponding protonated salts (C.A.S. 100-37-8).
a.2.f. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-thiols and corresponding protonated salts.
b. CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures containing Schedule 3 chemicals:
b.1. Toxic chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following toxic chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:
b.1.a. Phosgene: Carbonyl dichloride (C.A.S. 75-44-5);
b.1.b. Cyanogen chloride (C.A.S. 506-77-4);
b.1.c. Hydrogen cyanide (C.A.S. 74-90-8);
b.1.d. Chloropicrin: Trichloronitromethane (CAS 76-06-2).
b.2. Precursor chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following precursor chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:
b.2.a. [Reserved];
b.2.b. Methyldiethanolamine (C.A.S. 105-59-9).
1C395 Mixtures and Medical, Analytical, Diagnostic, and Food Testing Kits Not Controlled by ECCN 1C350, as follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, CW, AT
Control(s):
CB applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CB reasons in 1C395. A license is required, for CB reasons, to export or reexport mixtures controlled by 1C395.a and test kits controlled by 1C395.b to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR).
CW applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons. A license is required for CW reasons, as follows, to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR): (1) Exports and reexports of mixtures controlled by 1C395.a, (2) exports and reexports of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 2 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350, (3) exports of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 3 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350, except that a license is not required, for CW reasons, to export test kits containing CWC Schedule 3 chemicals if an End-Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country is obtained by the exporter prior to export, and (4) reexports from States not Party to the CWC of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 3 chemicals. (See § 742.18 of the EAR for license requirements and policies for toxic and precursor chemicals controlled for CW reasons.)
AT applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for AT reasons in 1C395. A license is required, for AT reasons, to export or reexport items controlled by 1C395 to a country in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information on the AT controls that apply to Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on sanctions that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria.)
License Requirements Notes:
1. 1C395.b does not control mixtures that contain precursor chemicals identified in ECCN 1C350.b or .c in concentrations below the control levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.b or .c. 1C395.a and 1C995.a.1 and a.2.a control such mixtures, unless they are consumer goods, as described in License Requirements Note 2 of this ECCN.
2. This ECCN does not control mixtures when the controlled chemicals are normal ingredients in consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use. Such consumer goods are classified as EAR99.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
1. ECCN 1C350 controls mixtures containing 30 percent or higher concentrations, by weight, of any single CWC
Schedule 2 chemical identified in ECCN 1C350.b; ECCN 1C995 controls such mixtures containing concentrations of 10 percent or less. 2. ECCN 1C995 controls “medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” (as defined in the Related Definitions paragraph of this ECCN) that contain precursor chemicals listed in ECCN 1C350.d. ECCN 1C350 controls any such kits in which the amount of any single chemical listed in 1C350.b, .c, or .d exceeds 300 grams by weight.
Related Definitions:
For the purpose of this entry, “medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” are pre-packaged materials of defined composition that are specifically developed, packaged and marketed for medical, analytical, diagnostic, or public health purposes. Replacement reagents for medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits described in 1C395.b are controlled by ECCN 1C350 if the reagents contain at least one of the precursor chemicals identified in that ECCN in concentrations equal to or greater than the control levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.b. or .c.
Items:
a. Mixtures containing more than 10 percent, but less than 30 percent, by weight of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical identified in ECCN 1C350.b (For controls on other mixtures containing these chemicals, see Note 1 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.).
b. “Medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” (as defined in the Related Definitions for this ECCN) that contain CWC Schedule 2 or 3 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350.b or .c in an amount
not
exceeding 300 grams per chemical. (For controls on other such test kits containing these and other controlled chemicals, see Note 2 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.)
1C607 Tear Gases, Riot Control Agents and materials for the detection and decontamination of chemical warfare agents (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, and .a.14
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1C607.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 1A984 for controls on other riot control agents. (2) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(b), for modified biological agents and biologically derived substances that are subject to the ITAR. (3) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(g), for ITAR controls on antibodies, recombinant protective antigens, polynucleotides, biopolymers or biocatalysts (including the expression vectors, viruses, plasmids, or cultures of specific cells used to produce them) that are “specially designed” for use with articles controlled under USML Category XIV(f). (4) See ECCN 0A919 for “military commodities” located and produced outside the United States that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Tear gases and riot control agents including:
a.1. CA (Bromobenzyl cyanide) (CAS 5798-79-8);
a.2. CS (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile or o-Chlorobenzalmalononitrile) (CAS 2698-41-1);
a.3. CN (Phenylacyl chloride or w-Chloroacetophenone) (CAS 532-27-4);
a.4. CR (Dibenz-(b,f)-1,4-oxazephine) (CAS 257-07-8);
a.5. Adamsite (Diphenylamine chloroarsine or DM) (CAS 578-94-9);
a.6. N-Nonanoylmorpholine, (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9);
a.7. Dibromodimethyl ether (CAS 4497-29-4);
a.8. Dichlorodimethyl ether (ClCi) (CAS 542-88-1);
a.9. Ethyldibromoarsine (CAS 683-43-2);
a.10. Bromo acetone (CAS 598-31-2);
a.11. Bromo methylethylketone (CAS 816-40-0);
a.12. Iodo acetone (CAS 3019-04-3);
a.13. Phenylcarbylamine chloride (CAS 622-44-6);
a.14. Ethyl iodoacetate (CAS 623-48-3);
Note to 1C607.a:
ECCN 1C607.a. does not control the following: formulations containing 1% or less of CN or CS; individually packaged tear gases or riot control agents for personal self-defense purposes that are controlled by ECCN 1A984; or active constituent chemicals, and combinations thereof, identified and packaged for food production or medical purposes.
b. “Biopolymers,” not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) “specially designed” or processed for the detection or identification of chemical warfare agents specified by USML Category XIV(a), and the cultures of specific cells used to produce them.
c. “Biocatalysts,” and biological systems therefor, not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) “specially designed” for the decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents controlled in USML Category XIV (a), as follows:
c.1. “Biocatalysts” “specially designed” for the decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents controlled in USML Category XIV(a) resulting from directed laboratory selection or genetic manipulation of biological systems;
c.2. Biological systems containing the genetic information specific to the production of “biocatalysts” specified by 1C607.c.1, as follows:
c.2.a. “Expression vectors;”
c.2.b. Viruses;
or
c.2.c. Cultures of cells.
Note to 1C607.b and .c:
The cultures of cells and biological systems are exclusive and these sub-items do not apply to cells or biological systems for civil purposes, such as agricultural, pharmaceutical, medical, veterinary, environmental, waste management, or in the food industry.
d. Chemical mixtures not controlled by USML Category XIV(f) “specially designed” for military use for the decontamination of objects contaminated with materials specified by USML Category XIV(a) or (b).
1C608 “Energetic materials” and related commodities (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. no. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
MT applies to 1C608.m
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) of the EAR for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1,500
GBS:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1C608.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) The EAR does not control devices or charges containing materials controlled by USML subparagraphs V(c)(6), V(h), or V(i). The USML controls devices containing such materials. (2) The USML in Categories III, IV, or V controls devices and charges in this entry if they contain materials controlled by Category V (other than slurries) and such materials can be easily extracted without destroying the device or charge. (3) See also explosives and other items enumerated in ECCNs 1A006, 1A007, 1A008, 1C011, 1C111, 1C239, and 1C992. (4) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
(1) For purposes of this entry, the term 'controlled materials' means controlled energetic materials enumerated in ECCNs 1C011, 1C111, 1C239, 1C608, or USML Category V. (2) For the purposes of this entry, the term 'propellants' means substances or mixtures that react chemically to produce large volumes of hot gases at controlled rates to perform mechanical work.
Items:
a. 'Single base', 'double base', and 'triple base' 'propellants' having nitrocellulose with nitrogen content greater than 12.6% in the form of either:
a.1. 'Sheetstock' or 'carpet rolls';
or
a.2. Grains with diameter greater than 0.10 inches.
Note:
This entry does not control 'propellant' grains used in shotgun shells, small arms cartridges, or rifle cartridges.
Technical Notes:
1. 'Sheetstock' is 'propellant' that has been manufactured in the form of a sheet suitable for further processing.
2. A 'carpet roll' is 'propellant' that has been manufactured as a sheet, often cut to a desired width, and subsequently rolled up (like a carpet).
3. 'Single base' is 'propellant' which consists mostly of nitrocellulose.
4. 'Double base' 'propellant' consist mostly of nitrocellulose and nitroglycerine.
5. 'Triple base' consists mostly of nitrocellulose, nitroglycerine, and nitroguanidine. Such 'propellants' contain other materials, such as resins or stabilizers, that could include carbon, salts, burn rate modifiers, nitrodiphenylamine, wax, polyethylene glycol (PEG), polyglycol adipate (PGA).
b. Shock tubes containing greater than 0.064 kg per meter (300 grains per foot), but not more than 0.1 kg per meter (470 grains per foot) of 'controlled materials.'
c. Cartridge power devices containing greater than 0.70 kg, but not more than 1.0 kg of 'controlled materials.'
d. Detonators (electric or nonelectric) and “specially designed” assemblies therefor containing greater than 0.01 kg, but not more than 0.1 kg of 'controlled materials'.
e. Igniters not controlled by USML Categories III or IV that contain greater than 0.01 kg, but not more than 0.1 kg of 'controlled materials'.
f. Oil well cartridges containing greater than 0.015 kg, but not more than 0.1 kg of 'controlled materials'.
g. Commercial cast or pressed boosters containing greater than 1.0 kg, but not more than 5.0 kg of 'controlled materials'.
h. Commercial prefabricated slurries and emulsions containing greater than 10 kg and less than or equal to thirty-five percent by weight of USML 'controlled materials'.
i. [Reserved]
j. “Pyrotechnic” devices “specially designed” for commercial purposes (
e.g.,
theatrical stages, motion picture special effects, and fireworks displays), and containing greater than 3.0 kg, but not more than 5.0 kg of 'controlled materials'.
k. Other commercial explosive devices or charges “specially designed” for commercial applications, not controlled by 1C608.c through .g above, containing greater than 1.0 kg, but not more than 5.0 kg of 'controlled materials'.
l. Propyleneimine (2 methylaziridine) (C.A.S. #75-55-8).
m. Any oxidizer or 'mixture' thereof that is a compound composed of fluorine and any of the following: other halogens, oxygen, or nitrogen.
Note 1 to 1C608.m:
Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) (CAS 7783-54-2) in a gaseous state is controlled under ECCN 1C992 and not under ECCN 1C608.m.
Note 2 to 1C608.m:
Chlorine trifluoride (ClF3) (CAS 7790-91-2) is controlled under ECCN 1C111.a.3.f and not under ECCN 1C608.m.
Note 3 to 1C608.m:
Oxygen difluoride (OF2) is controlled under USML Category V.d.10 (see 22 CFR 121.1) and not under ECCN 1C608.m.
Note to 1C608.l and m:
If a chemical in ECCN 1C608.l or .m is incorporated into a commercial charge or device described in ECCN 1C608.c through .k or in ECCN 1C992, the classification of the commercial charge or device applies to the item.
Technical Note to 1C608.m:
'Mixture' refers to a composition of two or more substances with at least one substance being enumerated in 1C011, 1C111, 1C239, 1C608, USML Category V, or elsewhere on the USML.
n. Any explosives, 'propellants', oxidizers, “pyrotechnics”, fuels, binders, or additives that are “specially designed” for military application and not enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category V or elsewhere on the USML.
Note 1:
1C608.n does not apply to the following “aircraft” fuels: JP-4, JP-5, and JP-8.
Note 2:
“Aircraft” fuels specified by 1C608.n, Note 1 are finished products, not their constituents.
1C980 Inorganic chemicals listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 754 of the EAR that were produced or derived from the Naval Petroleum Reserves (NPR) or became available for export as a result of an exchange of any NPR produced or derived commodities.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C982 Other petroleum products listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 754 of the EAR that were produced or derived from the Naval Petroleum Reserves (NPR) or became available for export as a result of an exchange of any NPR produced or derived commodities.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1C983 Natural gas liquids and other natural gas derivatives listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 754 of the EAR that were produced or derived from the Naval Petroleum Reserves (NPR) or became available for export as a result of an exchange of any NPR produced or derived commodities.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1C984 Manufactured gas and synthetic natural gas (except when commingled with natural gas and thus subject to export authorization from the Department of Energy) listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 754 of the EAR that were produced or derived from the Naval Petroleum Reserves (NPR) or became available for export as a
result of an exchange of any NPR produced or derived commodities.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1C988 Unprocessed western red cedar (thuja plicata) logs and timber, and rough, dressed and worked lumber containing wane, as described in § 754.4 of the EAR.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
SS
Control(s):
SS applies to entire entry. For licensing requirements (and possible License Exceptions) proceed directly to part 754 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for SS reasons
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
For a non-exhaustive list of 10-digit Harmonized System-based Schedule B commodity numbers that may apply to unprocessed Western Red Cedar products subject to § 754.4 and related definitions, see Supplement No. 2 to part 754 of the EAR.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1C990 Fibrous and filamentary materials, not controlled by 1C010 or 1C210, for use in “composite” structures and with a specific modulus of 3.18 × 10
6
m or greater and a specific tensile strength of 7.62 × 10
4
m or greater.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1C991 Vaccines, immunotoxins, medical products, diagnostic and food testing kits, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to 1C991.c
CB Column 3.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Medical products containing ricin or saxitoxin, as follows, are controlled for CW reasons under ECCN 1C351:
(a) Ricinus communis AgglutininII (RCA
II
), also known as ricin D, or Ricinus Communis LectinIII (RCL
III
);
(b) Ricinus communis LectinIV (RCL
IV
), also known as ricin E;
or
(c) Saxitoxin identified by C.A.S. #35523-89-8.
(2) The export of a “medical product” that is an “Investigational New Drug” (IND), as defined in 21 CFR 312.3, is subject to certain U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements that are independent of the export requirements specified in this ECCN or elsewhere in the EAR. These FDA requirements are described in 21 CFR 312.110 and must be satisfied in addition to any requirements specified in the EAR.
(3) Also see 21 CFR 314.410 for FDA requirements concerning exports of new drugs and new drug substances.
Related Definitions:
For the purpose of this entry, 'immunotoxins' are monoclonal antibodies linked to a toxin with the intention of destroying a specific target cell while leaving adjacent cells intact. For the purpose of this entry, 'medical products' are: (1) Pharmaceutical formulations designed for testing and human (or veterinary) administration in the treatment of medical conditions; (2) prepackaged for distribution as clinical or medical products; and (3) approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration either to be marketed as clinical or medical products or for use as an “Investigational New Drug” (IND) (see 21 CFR part 312). For the purpose of this entry, 'diagnostic and food testing kits' are specifically developed, packaged and marketed for diagnostic or public health purposes. Biological toxins in any other configuration, including bulk shipments, or for any other end-uses are controlled by ECCN 1C351. For the purpose of this entry,
'vaccine' is defined as a medicinal (or veterinary) product in a pharmaceutical formulation, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or the U.S. Department of Agriculture to be marketed as a medical (or veterinary) product or for use in clinical trials, that is intended to stimulate a protective immunological response in humans or animals in order to prevent disease in those to whom or to which it is administered.
Items:
Technical Note:
For purposes of the controls described in this ECCN, 'toxins' refers to those toxins, or their subunits, controlled under ECCN 1C351.d.
a. Vaccines containing, or designed for use against, items controlled by ECCN 1C351, 1C353 or 1C354.
b. Immunotoxins containing toxins controlled by 1C351.d;
c. Medical products that contain any of the following:
c.1. Toxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d (except for botulinum neurotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.3, conotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.6, or items controlled for CW reasons under ECCN 1C351.d.15 or .d.16);
or
c.2. Genetically modified organisms or genetic elements controlled by ECCN 1C353.a.3 (except for those that contain, or code for, botulinum neurotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.3 or conotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.6);
d. Medical products not controlled by 1C991.c that contain any of the following:
d.1. Botulinum neurotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.3;
d.2. Conotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.6;
or
d.3. Genetically modified organisms or genetic elements controlled by ECCN 1C353.a.3 that contain, or code for, botulinum neurotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.3 or conotoxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.6;
e. Diagnostic and food testing kits containing toxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d (except for items controlled for CW reasons under ECCN 1C351.d.15 or .d.16).
1C992 Commercial charges and devices containing energetic materials, n.e.s. and nitrogen trifluoride in a gaseous state (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS, foreign policy
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq and transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
Russian industry sector sanctions apply to entire entry
See § 746.8 for specific license requirements and license review policy.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Commercial charges and devices “subject to the EAR,” contain energetic materials described on the USML that exceed the quantities noted or that are not covered by this entry are controlled under ECCN 1C608. (2) Nitrogen trifluoride when not in a gaseous state is controlled under ECCN 1C608.
Related Definitions:
(1) Items controlled by this entry ECCN 1C992 are those materials not controlled by ECCN 1C608 and not “subject to the ITAR.” (2) For purposes of this entry, the term “controlled materials” means controlled energetic materials (see ECCNs 1C011, 1C111, 1C239, and 1C608; see also 22 CFR 121.1, Category V). (3) The individual energetic materials described on the USML, even when compounded with other materials, remain “subject to the ITAR” when not incorporated into explosive devices or charges. (4) Commercial prefabricated slurries and emulsions containing greater than 35% of energetic materials described on the USML are “subject to the ITAR.” (5) For purposes of this entry, the mass of aluminum powder, potassium perchlorate, and any of the substances listed in the note to the USML (see 22 CFR 121.12) (such as ammonium pictrate, black powder, etc.) contained in commercial explosive devices and in the charges are omitted when determining the total mass of controlled material.
Items:
a. Shaped charges “specially designed” for oil well operations, utilizing one charge functioning along a single axis, that upon detonation produce a hole, and
a.1. Contain any formulation of controlled materials;
a.2. Have only a uniform shaped conical liner with an included angle of 90 degrees or less;
a.3. Contain more than 0.010 kg but less than or equal to 0.090 kg of controlled materials; and
a.4. Have a diameter not exceeding 4.5 inches;
b. Shaped charges “specially designed” for oil well operations containing less than or equal to 0.010 kg of controlled materials;
c. Detonation cord or shock tubes containing less than or equal to 0.064 kg per meter (300 grains per foot) of controlled materials;
d. Cartridge power devices, that contain less than or equal to 0.70 kg of controlled materials in the deflagration material;
e. Detonators (electric or nonelectric) and assemblies thereof, that contain less than or equal to 0.01 kg of controlled materials;
f. Igniters, that contain less than or equal to 0.01 kg of controlled materials;
g. Oil well cartridges, that contain less than or equal to 0.015 kg of controlled energetic materials;
h. Commercial cast or pressed boosters containing less than or equal to 1.0 kg of controlled materials;
i. Commercial prefabricated slurries and emulsions containing less than or equal to 10.0 kg and less than or equal to thirty-five percent by weight of materials described on the USML;
j. Cutters and severing tools containing less than or equal to 3.5 kg of controlled materials;
k. Pyrotechnic devices when designed exclusively for commercial purposes (
e.g.,
theatrical stages, motion picture special effects, and fireworks displays) and containing less than or equal to 3.0 kg of controlled materials; or
l. Other commercial explosive devices and charges not controlled by 1C992.a through .k containing less than or equal to 1.0 kg of controlled materials.
Note:
1C992.l includes automotive safety devices; extinguishing systems; cartridges for riveting guns; explosive charges for agricultural, oil and gas operations, sporting goods, commercial mining, or public works purposes; and delay tubes used in the assembly of commercial explosive devices.
m. Nitrogen trifluoride (NF
3
) in a gaseous state.
1C995 Mixtures not controlled by ECCN 1C350, ECCN 1C355 or ECCN 1C395 that contain chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350 or ECCN 1C355 and medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits not controlled by ECCN 1C350 or ECCN 1C395 that contain chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350.d, as follows (see List of Items controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
License Requirement Notes:
1. This ECCN does not control mixtures containing less than 0.5% of any single toxic or precursor chemical controlled by ECCN 1C350.b, .c, or .d or ECCN 1C355 as unavoidable by-products or impurities. Such mixtures are classified as EAR99.
2. 1C995.c does not control mixtures that contain precursor chemicals identified in 1C350.d in concentrations below the levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.d. 1C995.a.2.b controls such mixtures, unless they are consumer goods as described in License Requirements Note 3 of this ECCN.
3. This ECCN does not control mixtures when the controlled chemicals are normal ingredients in consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use. Such consumer goods are classified as EAR99.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
1. ECCN 1C350 controls mixtures containing 30 percent or higher concentrations of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical identified in ECCN 1C350.b. ECCN 1C395 controls mixtures containing concentrations of more than 10 percent, but less than 30 percent, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical identified in ECCN 1C350.b. 2. ECCN 1C350 controls mixtures containing chemicals identified in ECCN 1C350.c or .d that exceed the concentration levels indicated in 1C995.a.2. 3. ECCN 1C355 controls mixtures containing chemicals identified in ECCN 1C355 that exceed the concentration levels indicated in 1C995.b. 4. ECCN 1C395 controls “medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” (as defined in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN) that contain CWC Schedule 2 or 3 chemicals listed in 1C350.b or .c. ECCN 1C350 controls any such testing kits in which the amount of any single chemical listed in 1C350.b, .c., or .d exceeds 300 grams by weight.
Related Definitions:
For the purpose of this entry, “medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” are pre-packaged
materials of defined composition that are specifically developed, packaged and marketed for medical, analytical, diagnostic, or public health purposes. Replacement reagents for medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits described in 1C995.c are controlled by ECCN 1C350 if the reagents contain at least one of the precursor chemicals identified in that ECCN in concentrations equal to or greater than the control levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.d.
Items:
a. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of precursor chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350 (For controls on other mixtures containing these chemicals, see Notes 1 and 2 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.):
a.1. Mixtures containing 10 percent or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by ECCN 1C350.b;
a.2. Mixtures containing less than 30 percent, by weight, of:
a.2.a. Any single CWC Schedule 3 chemical controlled by ECCN 1C350.c; or
a.2.b. Any single precursor chemical controlled by ECCN 1C350.d.
b. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of toxic or precursor chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C355 (For controls on other mixtures containing these chemicals, see Note 3 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.):
b.1. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of CWC Schedule 2 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C355.a:
b.1.a. Mixtures containing 1 percent or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by ECCN 1C355.a.1 (i.e., mixtures containing PFIB); or
b.1.b. Mixtures containing 10 percent or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by 1C355.a.2;
b.2. Mixtures containing less than 30 percent, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 3 chemical controlled by ECCN 1C355.b.
c. “Medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” (as defined in the Related Definitions for this ECCN) that contain precursor chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350.d in an amount
not
exceeding 300 grams per chemical. (For controls on other such test kits containing these and other controlled chemicals, see Note 4 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.)
1C996 Hydraulic fluids containing synthetic hydrocarbon oils, not controlled by 1C006, having all the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A flash point exceeding 477 K (204 °C);
b. A pour point at 239 K (−-34 °C) or less;
c. A viscosity index of 75 or more;
and
d. A thermal stability at 616 K (343 °C).
1C997 Ammonium Nitrate, Including Fertilizers and Fertilizer Blends Containing More Than 15% by Weight Ammonium Nitrate, Except Liquid Fertilizers (Containing Any Amount of Ammonium Nitrate) or Dry Fertilizers Containing Less Than 15% by Weight Ammonium Nitrate.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1C998 Non-fluorinated polymeric substances, not controlled by 1C008, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Polyarylene ether ketones, as follows:
a.1 Polyether ether ketone (PEEK);
a.2. Polyether ketone ketone (PEKK);
a.3. Polyether ketone (PEK);
a.4. Polyether ketone ether ketone ketone (PEKEKK);
b. [Reserved]
1C999 Specific Materials, n.e.s., as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT license requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
RS applies to entire entry.
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See §§ 742.6 and 746.3 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1C236.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Hardened steel and tungsten carbide precision ball bearings (3mm or greater diameter);
b. 304 and 316 stainless steel plate, n.e.s.;
c. Monel plate;
d. Tributyl phosphate;
e. Nitric acid in concentrations of 20 weight percent or greater;
f. Fluorine;
g. Alpha-emitting radionuclides, n.e.s.

# D. “Software”
1D001 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 1B001 to 1B003.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
MT applies to “software” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of items controlled by 1B001 for MT reasons
MT Column 1
NP applies to “software” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of items controlled by 1B001 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except N/A for MT
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 1E101 (“use”) and 1E102 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry. (2) Also see 1D002, 1D101, 1D201, and 1D999.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1D002 “Software” for the “development” of organic “matrix”, metal “matrix” or carbon “matrix” laminates or “composites”.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations
List of Items Controlled
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
Yes
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit “software” for the “development” of organic “matrix”, metal “matrix” or carbon “matrix” laminates or “composites” specified in ECCN 1A002 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
Related Controls:
“Software” for items controlled by
1A102
are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1D003 “Software” “specially designed” or modified to enable equipment to perform
the functions of equipment controlled under 1A004.c or 1A004.d.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
RS applies to software for equipment controlled by 1A004.d
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations
Special Conditions for STA
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1D018 “Software” “specially designed“ or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items controlled by 1B018.b.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
MT applies to “software” for the “development”, “production”, operation, or maintenance of items controlled by 1B018 for MT reasons
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 1D608 for “software” for items classified under ECCN 1B608 that, immediately prior to July 1, 2014, were classified under 1B018.a.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1D101 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by 1B101, 1B102, 1B115, 1B117, 1B118, or 1B119.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to “software” for the “use” of items controlled by 1B101.a
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls: See
ECCNs 1E101 (“use”) and 1E102 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1D103 “Software” “specially designed” for reduced observables such as radar reflectivity, ultraviolet/infrared signatures and acoustic signatures, for applications usable in rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km and their complete subsystems.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) This entry includes “software” “specially designed” for analysis of signature reduction. (2) For software that meets the definition of defense articles under 22 CFR 120.3 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which describes similar software that are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, including USML Category XIII).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1D201 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “use” of items controlled by 1B201.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls: See
ECCNs 1E201 (“use”) and 1E203 (“development” and “production”) for technology for items controlled by this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1D390 “Software” for process control that is specifically configured to control or initiate “production” of chemicals controlled by 1C350.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
See Section 772.1 of the EAR for the definitions of “software,” “program,” and “microprogram.”
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1D607 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of items controlled by 1A607, 1B607 or 1C607 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except “software” for 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, and .a.14
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1D607.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” directly related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XIV is subject to the ITAR (see 22 CFR § 121.1, Category XIV(m)). “Software” controlled by USML Category XIV(m) includes “software” directly related to any equipment containing reagents, algorithms, coefficients, software, libraries, spectral databases, or alarm set point levels developed under U.S. Department of Defense contract or funding for the detection, identification, warning or monitoring of items controlled in paragraphs (a) or (b) of USML Category XIV, or for chemical or biological agents specified by U.S. Department of Defense funding or contract. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for “military commodities” located and produced outside the United States that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, or 1C607.
b. [Reserved]
1D608 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by 1B608 or 1C608 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
MT applies to “software” “specially designed” for the “use” of 1B608 equipment in the “production” and handling of materials controlled by 1C608.m or MT articles in USML Category V
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1D608.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Software directly related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Categories III, IV or V is subject to the controls of those USML Categories, respectively. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a
de minimis
amount of U.S.-origin “600 series” items.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 1B608 or 1C608.
b. [Reserved]
1D613 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by 1A613 or 1B613, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except 1D613.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry except 1D613.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 1D613.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 1D613.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “software” in 1D613.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” directly related to articles controlled by USML Category X is subject to the control of USML paragraph X(e) of the ITAR. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for foreign-made “military commodities” that incorporate more than a de minimis amount of US-origin “600 series” controlled content.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” (other than “software” controlled in paragraph .y of this entry) “specially designed” for the “development,” “production,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 1A613 (except 1A613.y) or 1B613 (except 1B613.y).
b. to x. [Reserved]
y. Specific “software” “specially designed” for the “production,” “development,” operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A613.y.
1D993 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of materials controlled by 1C210.b, or 1C990.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
1D999 Specific Software, n.e.s., as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
Country Chart.
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1B999.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Software “specially designed” for industrial process control hardware/systems controlled by 1B999, n.e.s.;
b. Software “specially designed” for equipment for the production of structural composites, fibers, prepregs and preforms controlled by 1B999, n.e.s.

# E. “Technology”
1E001 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” or “production” of items controlled by 1A002, 1A003, 1A004, 1A005, 1A006.b, 1A007, 1A008 1A101, 1A231, 1B (except 1B608, 1B613 or 1B999), or 1C (except 1C355, 1C608, 1C980 to 1C984, 1C988, 1C990, 1C991, 1C995 to 1C999).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, CB, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1A002, 1A003, 1A005, 1A006.b, 1A007, 1B001 to 1B003, 1B018, 1C001 to 1C011, or 1C018
NS Column 1.
NS applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1A004
NS Column 2.
MT applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1A101, 1B001, 1B101, 1B102, 1B115 to 1B119, 1C001, 1C007, 1C011, 1C101, 1C102, 1C107, 1C111, 1C116, 1C117, or 1C118 for MT reasons
MT Column 1.
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1A002, 1A007, 1A231, 1B001, 1B101, 1B201, 1B225, 1B226, 1B228 to 1B234, 1C002, 1C010, 1C111, 1C116, 1C202, 1C210, 1C216, 1C225 to 1C237, or 1C239 to 1C241 for NP reasons
NP Column 1.
CB applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1C351.d.15 and .16 and the 1C353 genetic elements of toxins in ECCN 1C351.d.15 and .16
CB Column 1.
CB applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1C351, 1C353, or 1C354; and CB applies to “technology” for materials controlled by 1C350 and for chemical detection systems and dedicated detectors therefor, in 1A004.c, that also have the technical characteristics described in 2B351.a
CB Column 2.
RS applies to technology for equipment controlled in 1A004.d
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except for the following:
(1) Items controlled for MT reasons; or
(2) Exports and reexports to destinations outside of those countries listed in Country Group A:5 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) of “technology” for the “development” or production” of the following:
(a) Items controlled by 1C001; or
(b) Items controlled by 1A002.a which are composite structures or laminates having an organic “matrix” and being made from materials listed under 1C010.c or 1C010.d.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit “technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” or “production” of equipment and materials specified by ECCNs 1A002, 1C001, 1C007.c, 1C010.c or d or 1C012 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls
(1) Also see ECCNs 1E101, 1E201, and 1E202. (2) See ECCN 1E608 for “technology” for items classified under ECCN 1B608 or 1C608 that, immediately prior to July 1, 2014, were classified under ECCN 1B018.a or 1C018.b through .m (note that ECCN 1E001 controls “development” and “production” “technology” for chlorine trifluoride controlled by ECCN 1C111.a.3.f—see ECCN 1E101 for controls on “use” “technology” for chlorine trifluoride). (3) See ECCN 1E002.g for control libraries (parametric technical databases) “specially designed” or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of equipment controlled under ECCN 1A004.c (Nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) detection systems) or ECCN 1A004.d (Equipment for detecting or identifying explosives residues). (4) “Technology” for lithium isotope separation (see related ECCN 1B233) and “technology” for items described in ECCN 1C012 are subject to the export licensing authority of the Department of Energy (see 10 CFR part 810). (5) “Technology” for items described in ECCN 1A102 is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E002 Other “technology” as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except 1E002.g
NS Column 1
NS applies to 1E002.g
NS Column 2
MT applies to 1E002.e
MT Column 1
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1A002 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except for 1E002.e and .f.
License Exceptions Note:
License Exception TSU is not applicable for the repair “technology” controlled by 1E002.e or .f, see supplement no. 2 to this part.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit any item in 1E002.e or .f to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1E001, 1E101,1E102, 1E202, and 1E994 for “technology” related to 1E002.e or .f.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of polybenzothiazoles or polybenzoxazoles;
b. “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of fluoroelastomer compounds containing at least one vinylether monomer;
c. “Technology” for the design or “production” of the following ceramic powders or non-“composite” ceramic materials:
c.1. Ceramic powders having all of the following:
c.1.a. Any of the following compositions:
c.1.a.1. Single or complex oxides of zirconium and complex oxides of silicon or aluminum;
c.1.a.2. Single nitrides of boron (cubic crystalline forms);
c.1.a.3. Single or complex carbides of silicon or boron; or
c.1.a.4. Single or complex nitrides of silicon;
c.1.b. Any of the following total metallic impurities (excluding intentional additions):
c.1.b.1. Less than 1,000 ppm for single oxides or carbides; or
c.1.b.2. Less than 5,000 ppm for complex compounds or single nitrides; and
c.1.c. Being any of the following:
c.1.c.1. Zirconia (CAS 1314-23-4) with an average particle size equal to or less than 1 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 5 µm;
or
c.1.c.2. Other ceramic powders with an average particle size equal to or less than 5 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 10 µm;
c.2. Non-“composite” ceramic materials composed of the materials described in 1E002.c.1;
Note:
1E002.c.2 does not control “technology” for abrasives.
d. [Reserved]
e. “Technology” for the installation, maintenance or repair of materials controlled by 1C001;
f. “Technology” for the repair of “composite” structures, laminates or materials controlled by 1A002 or 1C007.c;
Note:
1E002.f does not control “technology” for the repair of “civil aircraft” structures using carbon “fibrous or filamentary materials” and epoxy resins, contained in “aircraft” manufacturers' manuals.
g. “Libraries” “specially designed” or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of equipment controlled under 1A004.c or 1A004.d.
1E101 “Technology”, in accordance with the General Technology Note, for the “use” of commodities and “software” controlled by 1A101, 1A102, 1B001, 1B101, 1B102, 1B115 to 1B119, 1C001, 1C007, 1C011, 1C101, 1C107, 1C111, 1C116, 1C117, 1C118, 1D001, 1D101, or 1D103.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
MT applies to “technology” for commodities and software controlled by 1A101, 1A102, 1B001, 1B101, 1B102, 1B115 to 1B119, 1C001, 1C007, 1C011, 1C101, 1C107, 1C111, 1C116, 1C117, 1C118, 1D001, 1D101, or 1D103 for MT reasons
MT Column 1
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1B001, 1B101, 1C111, 1C116, 1D001, or 1D101 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
“Technology” for items controlled by
1A102
is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E102 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” of software controlled by 1D001, 1D101 or 1D103.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 1D001 and 1D101 for NP reasons
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
This entry includes databases “specially designed” for analysis of signature reduction.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E103 “Technical data” (including processing conditions) and procedures for the regulation of temperature, pressure or atmosphere in autoclaves or hydroclaves, when used for the “production” of “composites” or partially processed “composites”, usable for equipment or materials specified in 1C007, 1C102, 1C107, 1C116, 1C117, 1C118, 9A110, and 9C110.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 1E203
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E104 “Technology” for the “production” of pyrolytically derived materials formed on a mold, mandrel or other substrate from precursor gases which decompose in the 1,573 K (1,300 °C) to 3,173 K (2,900 °C) temperature range at pressures of 130 Pa (1 mm Hg) to 20 kPa (150 mm Hg), including “technology” for the composition of precursor gases, flow-rates and process control schedules and parameters.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E201 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of items controlled by 1A002, 1A007, 1A202, 1A225 to 1A227, 1A231, 1B201, 1B225, 1B226, 1B228 to 1B232, 1B233.b, 1B234, 1C002.b.3 and b.4, 1C010.a, 1C010.b, 1C010.e.1, 1C202, 1C210, 1C216, 1C225 to 1C237, 1C239 to 1C241 or 1D201.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry, for items controlled for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E202 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” or “production” of goods controlled by 1A202 or 1A225 to 1A227.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E203 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” or “production” of “software” controlled by 1D201.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E350 “Technology” according to the “General Technology Note” for facilities designed or intended to produce chemicals controlled by 1C350.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E351 “Technology” according to the “General Technology Note” for the disposal of chemicals or microbiological materials controlled by 1C350, 1C351, 1C353, or 1C354.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
CB applies to “technology” for the disposal of items controlled by 1C351.d.15 and .16 and the 1C353 genetic elements of toxins in ECCN 1C351.d.15 and .16
CB Column 1.
CB applies to “technology” for the disposal of items controlled by 1C351, 1C353, or 1C354; and CB applies to “technology” for the disposal of items controlled by 1C350
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR: N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E355 Technology for the production of Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CW, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CW applies to entire entry. A license is required for CW reasons to CWC non-States Parties (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745), except for Israel and Taiwan. See § 742.18 of the EAR. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons
AT applies to the entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Technology for the production of the following CWC Schedule 2 toxic chemicals:
a.1. PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene (382-21-8);
a.2. [Reserved]
b. Technology for the production of the following CWC Schedule 3 toxic chemicals:
b.1. Phosgene: Carbonyl dichloride (75-44-5);
b.2. Cyanogen chloride (506-77-4);
b.3. Hydrogen cyanide (74-90-8).
1E607 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, 1C607, or 1D607 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry, except “technology” for 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, and .a.14 and for 1D607 “software” therefor
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1E607.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to defense articles enumerated or
otherwise described in USML Category XIV are subject to the ITAR (see 22 CFR § 121.1, Category XIV(m)). Technical data controlled by USML Category XIV(m) include technical data directly related to any equipment containing reagents, algorithms, coefficients, software, libraries, spectral databases, or alarm set point levels developed under U.S. Department of Defense contract or funding for the detection, identification, warning or monitoring of items controlled in paragraphs (a) or (b) of USML Category XIV, or for chemical or biological agents specified by U.S. Department of Defense funding or contract.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, 1C607 or 1D607.
Note to 1E607.a:
ECCN 1E607.a includes “technology” “required” exclusively for the incorporation of “biocatalysts” controlled by ECCN 1C607.c.1 into military carrier substances or military material.
b. [Reserved]
1E608 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of equipment controlled in 1B608 or materials controlled by 1C608 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 1
MT applies to “technology” “required” for 1C608.m
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
UN applies to entire entry
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of all License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1E608.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Technical data directly related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Categories III, IV, or V are subject to the controls of those USML Categories, respectively.
(2) “Technology” for chlorine trifluoride is controlled under ECCN 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and ECCN 1E101 (“use”).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of equipment controlled by ECCN 1B608 or materials controlled by ECCN 1C608.
b. “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of nitrocellulose with nitrogen content over 12.6% and at rates greater than 2000 pounds per hour.
c. “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of nitrate esters (e.g., nitroglycerine) at rates greater than 2000 pounds per hour.
1E613 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by 1A613 or 1B613 or “software” controlled by 1D613, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry except 1E613.y
NS Column 1.
RS applies to entire entry except 1E613.y
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 1E613.y
China, Russia, or Venezuela (see § 742.6(a)(7)).
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry, except 1E613.y
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (§ 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any “technology” in 1E613.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Technical data directly related to articles controlled by USML Category X are subject to the control of USML paragraph X(e) of the ITAR.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Technology” (other than “technology” controlled by paragraph .y of this entry) “required” for the “development,” “production,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or “software” controlled by ECCNs 1A613 (except 1A613.y), 1B613 or 1D613 (except 1D613.y).
b. through x. [Reserved]
y. Specific “technology” “required” for the “production,” “development,” operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or software controlled by ECCN 1A613.y or 1D613.y.
1E994 “Technology” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of fibrous and filamentary materials controlled by 1C990.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
1E998 “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of processing equipment controlled by 1B999, and materials controlled by 1C996, 1C997, 1C998, or 1C999.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
EAR99 Items Subject to the EAR That Are
Not
Elsewhere Specified in This CCL Category
or
in Any Other Category in the CCL Are Designated by the Number EAR99.

# Annex to Category 1

# List of Explosives (See ECCNs 1A004 and 1A008)
1. ADNBF (aminodinitrobenzofuroxan or 7 amino 4,6 dinitrobenzofurazane 1 oxide) (CAS 97096 78 1);
2. BNCP (cis bis (5 nitrotetrazolato) tetra amine cobalt (III) perchlorate) (CAS 117412 28 9);
3. CL 14 (diamino dinitrobenzofuroxan or 5,7 diamino 4,6 dinitrobenzofurazane 1 oxide) (CAS 117907 74 1);
4. CL 20 (HNIW or Hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane) (CAS 135285 90 4); chlathrates of CL 20;
5. CP (2 (5 cyanotetrazolato) penta amine cobalt (III) perchlorate) (CAS 70247 32 4);
6. DADE (1,1 diamino 2,2 dinitroethylene, FOX-7) (CAS 145250-81-3);
7. DATB (diaminotrinitrobenzene) (CAS 1630 08 6);
8. DDFP (1,4 dinitrodifurazanopiperazine);
9. DDPO (2,6 diamino 3,5 dinitropyrazine 1 oxide, PZO) (CAS 194486 77 6);
10. DIPAM (3,3′ diamino 2,2′,4,4′,6,6′ hexanitrobiphenyl or dipicramide) (CAS 17215 44 0);
11. DNGU (DINGU or dinitroglycoluril) (CAS 55510 04 8);
12. Furazans as follows:
a. DAAOF (diaminoazoxyfurazan);
b. DAAzF (diaminoazofurazan) (CAS 78644 90 3);
13. HMX and derivatives, as follows:
a. HMX (Cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine, octahydro 1,3,5,7 tetranitro 1,3,5,7 tetrazine, 1,3,5,7 tetranitro 1,3,5,7 tetraza cyclooctane, octogen or octogene) (CAS 2691 41 0);
b. Difluoroaminated analogs of HMX;
c. K 55 (2,4,6,8 tetranitro 2,4,6,8 tetraazabicyclo [3,3,0] octanone 3, tetranitrosemiglycouril or keto bicyclic HMX) (CAS 130256 72 3);
14. HNAD (hexanitroadamantane) (CAS 143850 71 9);
15. HNS (hexanitrostilbene) (CAS 20062 22 0);
16. Imidazoles as follows:
a. BNNII (Octahydro 2,5 bis(nitroimino)imidazo [4,5 d]imidazole);
b. DNI (2,4 dinitroimidazole) (CAS 5213 49 0);
c. FDIA (1 fluoro 2,4 dinitroimidazole);
d. NTDNIA (N (2 nitrotriazolo) 2,4 dinitroimidazole);
e. PTIA (1 picryl 2,4,5 trinitroimidazole);
17. NTNMH (1 (2 nitrotriazolo) 2 dinitromethylene hydrazine);
18. NTO (ONTA or 3 nitro 1,2,4 triazol 5 one) (CAS 932 64 9);
19. Polynitrocubanes with more than four nitro groups;
20. PYX (2,6 Bis(picrylamino) 3,5 dinitropyridine) (CAS 38082 89 2);
21. RDX and derivatives, as follows:
a. RDX (cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine, cyclonite, T4, hexahydro 1,3,5 trinitro 1,3,5 triazine, 1,3,5 trinitro 1,3,5 triaza cyclohexane, hexogen or hexogene) (CAS 121 82 4);
b. Keto RDX (K 6 or 2,4,6 trinitro 2,4,6 triazacyclohexanone) (CAS 115029 35 1);
22. TAGN (triaminoguanidinenitrate) (CAS 4000 16 2);
23. TATB (triaminotrinitrobenzene) (CAS 3058 38 6);
24. TEDDZ (3,3,7,7 tetrabis(difluoroamine) octahydro 1,5 dinitro 1,5 diazocine);
25. Tetrazoles as follows:
a. NTAT (nitrotriazol aminotetrazole);
b. NTNT (1 N (2 nitrotriazolo) 4 nitrotetrazole);
26. Tetryl (trinitrophenylmethylnitramine) (CAS 479 45 8);
27. TNAD (1,4,5,8 tetranitro 1,4,5,8 tetraazadecalin) (CAS 135877 16 6);
28. TNAZ (1,3,3 trinitroazetidine) (CAS 97645 24 4);
29. TNGU (SORGUYL or tetranitroglycoluril) (CAS 55510 03 7);
30. TNP (1,4,5,8 tetranitro pyridazino[4,5 d]pyridazine) (CAS 229176 04 9);
31. Triazines as follows:
a. DNAM (2 oxy 4,6 dinitroamino s triazine) (CAS 19899 80 0);
b. NNHT (2 nitroimino 5 nitro hexahydro 1,3,5 triazine) (CAS 130400 13 4);
32. Triazoles as follows:
a. 5 azido 2 nitrotriazole;
b. ADHTDN (4 amino 3,5 dihydrazino 1,2,4 triazole dinitramide) (CAS 1614 08 0);
c. ADNT (1 amino 3,5 dinitro 1,2,4 triazole);
d. BDNTA ((bis dinitrotriazole)amine);
e. DBT (3,3′ dinitro 5,5 bi 1,2,4 triazole) (CAS 30003 46 4);
f. DNBT (dinitrobistriazole) (CAS 70890 46 9);
g. [Reserved]
h. NTDNT (1 N (2 nitrotriazolo) 3,5 dinitrotriazole);
i. PDNT (1 picryl 3,5 dinitrotriazole);
j. TACOT (tetranitrobenzotriazolobenzotriazole) (CAS 25243 36 1);
33. “Explosives” not listed elsewhere in this list having a detonation velocity exceeding 8,700 m/s, at maximum density, or a detonation pressure exceeding 34 GPa (340 kbar);
34. [Reserved]
35. Nitrocellulose (containing more than 12.5% nitrogen) (CAS 9004-70-0);
36. Nitroglycol (CAS 628-96-6);
37. Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) (CAS 78-11-5);
38. Picryl chloride (CAS 88-88-0);
39. 2,4,6 Trinitrotoluene (TNT) (CAS 118-96-7);
40. Nitroglycerine (NG) (CAS 55-63-0);
41. Triacetone Triperoxide (TATP) (CAS 17088-37-8);
42. Guanidine nitrate (CAS 506-93-4);
43. Nitroguanidine (NQ) (CAS 556 88 7);
44. DNAN (2,4-dinitroanisole) (CAS 119-27-7);
45. TEX (4,10-Dinitro-2,6,8,12-tetraoxa-4,10-diazaisowurtzitane);
46. GUDN (Guanylurea dinitramide) FOX-12 (CAS 217464-38-5);
47. Tetrazines as follows:
a. BTAT (Bis(2,2,2-trinitroethyl)-3,6-diaminotetrazine);
b. LAX-112 (3,6-diamino-1,2,4,5-tetrazine-1,4-dioxide);
48. Energetic ionic materials melting between 343 K (70 °C) and 373 K (100 °C) and with detonation velocity exceeding 6,800 m/s or detonation pressure exceeding 18 GPa (180 kbar);
49. BTNEN (Bis(2,2,2-trinitroethyl)-nitramine) (CAS 19836-28-3);
50. FTDO (5,6-(3′,4′-furazano)- 1,2,3,4-tetrazine-1,3-dioxide);
51. EDNA (Ethylenedinitramine) (CAS 505-71-5);
52. TKX-50 (Dihydroxylammonium 5,5′-bistetrazole-1,1′-diolate).

# Category 2—Materials Processing
Note:
For quiet running bearings, see the U.S. Munitions List.

# A. “End Items”, “Equipment”, “Accessories”, “Attachments”, “Parts”, “Components” and “Systems”
2A001 Anti-friction bearings, bearing systems and “components,” as follows, (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to radial ball bearings having all tolerances specified in accordance with ISO 492 Tolerance Class 2 (or ANSI/ABMA Std 20 Tolerance Class ABEC-9, or other national equivalents) or better and having all the following characteristics: an inner ring bore diameter between 12 and 50 mm; an outer ring outside diameter between 25 and 100 mm; and a width between 10 and 20 mm.
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000, N/A for MT
GBS:
Yes, for 2A001.a,
N/A for MT
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also 2A991. (2) Quiet running bearings are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130.)
Related Definitions:
Annular Bearing Engineers Committee (ABEC).
Items:
Note:
2A001.a includes ball bearing and roller elements “specially designed” for the items specified therein.
a. Ball bearings and solid roller bearings, having all tolerances specified by the manufacturer in accordance with ISO 492 Tolerance Class 2 or Class 4 (or national equivalents), or better, and having both 'rings' and 'rolling elements', made from monel or beryllium;
Note:
2A001.a does not control tapered roller bearings.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 2A001.a:
1. 'Ring'—is an annular part of a radial rolling bearing incorporating one or more raceways (ISO 5593:1997).
2. 'Rolling element'—is a ball or roller which rolls between raceways (ISO 5593:1997).
b. [Reserved]
c. Active magnetic bearing systems using any of the following, and “specially designed” components therefor:
c.1. Materials with flux densities of 2.0 T or greater and yield strengths greater than 414 MPa;
c.2. All-electromagnetic 3D homopolar bias designs for actuators;
or
c.3. High temperature (450 K (177 °C) and above) position sensors.
2A101 Radial Ball Bearings Having all Tolerances Specified in Accordance With ISO 492 Tolerance Class 2 (or ANSI/ABMA Std 20 Tolerance Class ABEC-9 or Other National Equivalents), or Better and Having all of the Following Characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 2A001.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. An inner ring bore diameter between 12 and 50 mm;
b. An outer ring outside diameter between 25 and 100 mm;
and
c. A width between 10 and 20 mm.
2A225 Crucibles made of materials resistant to liquid actinide metals (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls: See
ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Crucibles having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. A volume of between 150 cm
3
(150 ml) and 8,000 cm
3
(8 liters);
and
a.2. Made of, or coated with, any of the following materials, or combination of the following materials, having an overall impurity level of 2% or less by weight:
a.2.a. Calcium fluoride (CaF
2
);
a.2.b. Calcium zirconate (metazirconate) (CaZrO
3
);
a.2.c. Cerium sulfide (Ce
2
S
3
);
a.2.d. Erbium oxide (erbia) (Er
2
O
3
);
a.2.e. Hafnium oxide (hafnia) (HfO
2
);
a.2.f. Magnesium oxide (MgO);
a.2.g. Nitrided niobium-titanium-tungsten alloy (approximately 50% Nb, 30% Ti, 20% W);
a.2.h. Yttrium oxide (yttria) (Y
2
O
3
);
or
a.2.i. Zirconium oxide (zirconia) (ZrO
2
);
b. Crucibles having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. A volume of between 50 cm
3
(50 ml) and 2,000 cm
3
(2 liters);
and
b.2. Made of or lined with tantalum, having a purity of 99.9% or greater by weight;
c. Crucibles having all of the following characteristics:
c.1. A volume of between 50 cm
3
(50 ml) and 2,000 cm
3
(2 liters);
c.2. Made of or lined with tantalum, having a purity of 98% or greater by weight;
and
c.3. Coated with tantalum carbide, nitride, boride, or any combination thereof.
2A226 Valves having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
CB applies to valves that also meet or exceed the technical parameters in 2B350.g
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 2A992, 2B350.g and 2B999. (3) Valves “specially designed” or prepared for certain nuclear uses are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
For valves with different inlet and outlet diameters, the “nominal size” in 2A226 refers to the smallest diameter.
Items:
a. A “nominal size” of 5 mm or greater;
b. Having a bellows seal;
and
c. Wholly made of or lined with aluminum, aluminum alloy, nickel, or nickel alloy containing more than 60% nickel by weight.
2A290 Generators and other equipment “specially designed”, prepared, or intended for use with nuclear plants.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D290 for software for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E290 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCN 2A291. (4) Certain nuclear equipment “specially designed” or prepared for use in nuclear plants is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Generators, turbine-generator sets, steam turbines, heat exchangers, and heat exchanger type condensers designed or intended for use in a nuclear reactor;
b. Process control systems intended for use with the equipment controlled by 2A290.a.
2A291 Equipment, except items controlled by 2A290, related to nuclear material handling and processing and to nuclear reactors, and “parts,” “components” and “accessories” therefor (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D290 for software for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E290 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCN 2A290. (4) Certain equipment “specially designed” or prepared for use in a nuclear reactor or in nuclear material handling is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110). (5) Nuclear radiation detection and measurement devices “specially designed” or modified for military purposes are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Process control systems intended for use with nuclear reactors.
b. Simulators “specially designed” for “nuclear reactors”.
c. Casks that are “specially designed” for transportation of high-level radioactive material and that weigh more than 1,000 kg.
d. Commodities, “parts,” “components” and “accessories” “specially designed” or prepared for use with nuclear plants (
e.g.,
snubbers, airlocks, pumps, reactor fuel charging and discharging equipment, containment equipment such as hydrogen recombiner and penetration seals, and reactor and fuel inspection equipment, including ultrasonic or eddy current test equipment).
e. Radiation detectors and monitors “specially designed” for detecting or measuring “special nuclear material” (as defined in 10 CFR part 110) or for nuclear reactors.
Technical Notes:
1. 2A291.e does not control neutron flux detectors and monitors. These are subject to the export licens ing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, pursuant to 10 CFR part 110.
2. 2A291.e does not control general purpose radiation detection equipment, such as geiger counters and dosimeters. These items are controlled by ECCN 1A999.
2A983 Explosives or detonator detection equipment, both bulk and trace based, consisting of an automated device, or combination of devices for automated decision making to detect the presence of different types of explosives, explosive residue, or detonators; and “parts” and “components,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Also see 1A004 and 1A995.
Related Definitions:
(1) For the purpose of this entry, automated decision making is the ability of the equipment to detect explosives or detonators at the design or operator-selected level of sensitivity and provide an automated alarm when explosives or detonators at or above the sensitivity level are detected. This entry does not control equipment that depends on operator interpretation of indicators such as inorganic/organic color mapping of the items(s) being scanned.
(2) Explosives and detonators include commercial charges and devices controlled by 1C018 and 1C992 and energetic materials controlled by ECCNs 1C011, 1C111, 1C239 and 22 CFR 121.1 Category V.
Items:
Note:
Explosives or detonation detection equipment in 2A983 includes equipment for screening people, documents, baggage, other personal effects, cargo and/or mail.
a. Explosives detection equipment for automated decision making to detect and identify bulk explosives utilizing, but not limited to, x-ray (
e.g.,
computed tomography, dual energy, or coherent scattering), nuclear (
e.g.,
thermal neutron analysis, pulse fast neutron analysis, pulse fast neutron transmission spectroscopy, and gamma resonance absorption), or electromagnetic techniques (
e.g.,
quadropole resonance and dielectrometry).
b. [Reserved]
c. Detonator detection equipment for automated decision making to detect and identify initiation devices (
e.g.
detonators, blasting caps) utilizing, but not limited to, x-ray (
e.g.
dual energy or computed tomography) or electromagnetic techniques.
2A984 Concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution of 0.1 milliradian up to and including 1 milliradian at a standoff distance of 100 meters; and “parts” and “components,” n.e.s.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution less than 0.1 milliradian (a lower milliradian number means a more accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters is “subject to the ITAR” under USML Category XII(c). (2) Concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution greater than 1 milliradian (a higher milliradian number means a less accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters is designated as EAR99. (3) See ECCNs 2D984 and 2E984 for related software and technology controls.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Note:
Concealed object detection equipment includes but is not limited to equipment for screening people, documents, baggage, other personal effects, cargo and/or mail.
Technical Note:
The range of frequencies span what is generally considered as the millimeter-wave, submillimeter-wave and terahertz frequency regions.
2A991 Bearings and bearing systems not controlled by 2A001 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) This entry does not control balls with tolerance specified by the manufacturer in accordance with ISO 3290 as grade 5 or worse. (2) Quiet running bearings are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
(1) (a) DN is the product of the bearing bore diameter in mm and the bearing rotational velocity in rpm. (b) Operating temperatures include those temperatures obtained when a gas turbine engine has stopped after operation. (2) Annular Bearing Engineers Committee (ABEC); American National Standards Institute (ANSI); Anti-Friction Bearing Manufacturers Association (AFBMA)
Items:
a. Ball bearings or Solid ball bearings, having tolerances specified by the manufacturer in accordance with ABEC 7, ABEC 7P, or ABEC 7T or ISO Standard Class 4 or better (or equivalents) and having any of the following characteristics.
a.1. Manufactured for use at operating temperatures above 573 K (300 °C) either by using special materials or by special heat treatment;
or
a.2. With lubricating elements or “part” or “component” modifications that, according to the manufacturer's specifications, are “specially designed” to enable the bearings to operate at speeds exceeding 2.3 million DN.
b. Solid tapered roller bearings, having tolerances specified by the manufacturer in accordance with ANSI/AFBMA Class 00 (inch) or Class A (metric) or better (or equivalents) and having either of the following characteristics.
b.1. With lubricating elements or “part” or “component” modifications that, according to the manufacturer's specifications, are “specially designed” to enable the bearings to operate at speeds exceeding 2.3 million DN; or
b.2. Manufactured for use at operating temperatures below 219 K (−54 °C) or above 423 K (150 °C).
c. Gas-lubricated foil bearing manufactured for use at operating temperatures of 561 K (288 °C) or higher and a unit load capacity exceeding 1 MPa.
d. Active magnetic bearing systems.
e. Fabric-lined self-aligning or fabric-lined journal sliding bearings manufactured for use at operating temperatures below 219 K (−54 °C) or above 423 K (150 °C).
2A992 Piping, fittings and valves made of, or lined with stainless, copper-nickel alloy or other alloy steel containing 10% or more nickel and/or chromium.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry for export or reexport to Pakistan or transfer within Pakistan for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See § 742.6(a)(12) of the EAR for additional information.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D993 for software for items controlled under this entry.
(2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E993 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
(3) Also see ECCNs 2A226, 2B350 and 2B999. Related Definitions: N/A
Items:
a. Pressure tube, pipe, and fittings of 200 mm (8 in.) or more inside diameter, and suitable for operation at pressures of 3.4 MPa (500 psi) or greater;
b. Pipe valves having all of the following characteristics that are not controlled by ECCN 2B350.g:
b.1. A pipe size connection of 200 mm (8 in.) or more inside diameter;
and
b.2. Rated at 10.3 MPa (1,500 psi) or more.
2A993 Pumps designed to move molten metals by electromagnetic forces.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D993 for software for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E993 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Pumps for use in liquid-metal-cooled reactors are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2A994 Portable electric generators and “specially designed” “parts” and “components”.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to Iran and North Korea. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for this entry. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on Iran. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information on North Korea.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 2D994 and 2E994.
Related Definitions:
‘Portable electric generators’ - The generators that are in 2A994 are portable - 5,000 lbs. or less on wheels or transportable in a 2
1/2
ton truck without a special set up requirement.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading
2A999 Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s., as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
Country Chart.
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 2A226, 2B350.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Bellows sealed valves;
b. Reserved.

# B. “Test”, “Inspection” and “Production Equipment”
Technical Notes for 2B001 to 2B009, 2B201, and 2B991 to 2B999:
1. Secondary parallel contouring axes, (e.g., the w-axis on horizontal boring mills or a secondary rotary axis the center line of which is parallel to the primary rotary axis) are not counted in the total number of contouring axes. Rotary axes need not rotate over 360°. A rotary axis can be driven by a linear device (e.g., a screw or a rack-and-pinion).
2. The number of axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” is the number of axes along or around which, during processing of the workpiece, simultaneous and interrelated motions are performed between the workpiece and a tool. This does not include any additional axes along or around which other relative motions within the machine are performed, such as:
2.a. Wheel-dressing systems in grinding machines;
2.b. Parallel rotary axes designed for mounting of separate workpieces;
2.c. Co-linear rotary axes designed for manipulating the same workpiece by holding it in a chuck from different ends.
3. Axis nomenclature shall be in accordance with International Standard ISO 841:2001, Industrial automation systems and integration—Numerical control of machines—Coordinate system and motion nomenclature.
4. A “tilting spindle” is counted as a rotary axis.
5. 'Stated “unidirectional positioning repeatability” ' may be used for each specific machine model as an alternative to individual machine tests, and is determined as follows:
5.a. Select five machines of a model to be evaluated;
5.b. Measure the linear axis repeatability (R↑,R↓) according to ISO 230-2:2014 and evaluate “unidirectional positioning repeatability” for each axis of each of the five machines;
5.c. Determine the arithmetic mean value of the ”unidirectional positioning repeatability”-values for each axis of all five machines together. These arithmetic mean values “unidirectional positioning repeatability” (UPR) become the stated value of each axis for the model...) (UPR
X
, UPR
y
, . . .);
5.d. Since the Category 2 list refers to each linear axis there will be as many 'stated “unidirectional positioning repeatability” ' values as there are linear axes;
5.e. If any axis of a machine model not controlled by 2B001.a. to 2B001.c. has a 'stated “unidirectional positioning repeatability” ' equal to or less than the specified “unidirectional positioning repeatability” of each machine tool model plus 0.7 µm, the builder should be required to reaffirm the accuracy level once every eighteen months.
6. For the purpose of 2B, measurement uncertainty for the “unidirectional positioning repeatability” of machine tools, as defined in the International Standard ISO 230-2:2014, shall not be considered.
7. For the purpose of 2B, the measurement of axes shall be made according to test procedures in 5.3.2. of ISO 230-2:2014. Tests for axes longer than 2 meters shall be made over 2 m segments. Axes longer than 4 m require multiple tests (e.g., two tests for axes longer than 4 m and up to 8 m, three tests for axes longer than 8 m and up to 12 m), each over 2 m segments and distributed in equal intervals over the axis length. Test segments are equally spaced along the full axis length, with any excess length equally divided at the beginning, in between, and at the end of the test segments. The smallest “unidirectional positioning repeatability”-value of all test segments is to be reported.
2B001 Machine tools and any combination thereof, for removing (or cutting) metals, ceramics or “composites”, which, according to the manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with electronic devices for “numerical control”; as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
NP applies to 2B001.a, .b, .c, and .d, EXCEPT:
(1) turning machines under 2B001.a with a capacity no greater than 35 mm diameter; (2) bar machines (Swissturn), limited to machining only bar feed through, if maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability of mounting chucks. (Machines may have drilling and/or milling capabilities for machining “parts” or “components” with diameters less than 42 mm); or
(3) milling machines under 2B001.b with x-axis travel greater than two meters and overall positioning accuracy according to ISO 230/2 (2006) on the x-axis more (worse) than 22.5 µm.
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2B002 for optical finishing machines. (2) See ECCNs 2D001 and 2D002 for software for items controlled under this entry. (3) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (4) Also see ECCNs 2B201 and 2B991.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
Note 1:
2B001 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of gears. For such machines, see 2B003.
Note 2:
2B001 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of any of the following:
a. Crank shafts or cam shafts;
b. Tools or cutters;
c. Extruder worms
;
d. Engraved or faceted jewelry parts; or
e. Dental prostheses.
Note 3:
A machine tool having at least two of the three turning, milling or grinding capabilities (e.g., a turning machine with milling capability), must be evaluated against each applicable entry 2B001.a, .b or .c.
Note 4:
A machine tool having an additive manufacturing capability in addition to a turning, milling or grinding capability must be evaluated against each applicable entry 2B001.a, .b or .c.
a. Machine tools for turning having two or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” having any of the following:
a.1. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 0.9 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1.0 m;
or
a.2. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.1 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1.0 m;
Note 1:
2B001.a does not control turning machines “specially designed” for producing contact lenses,
having all of the following:
a. Machine controller limited to using ophthalmic based “software” for part programming data input; and
b. No vacuum chucking.
Note 2:
2B001.a does not apply to bar machines (Swissturn), limited to machining only bar feed thru, if maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability of mounting chucks. Machines may have drilling or milling capabilities for machining parts with diameters less than 42 mm.
b. Machine tools for milling having any of the following:
b.1. Three linear axes plus one rotary axis which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” having any of the following:
b.1.a. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 0.9 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1.0 m;
or
b.1.b. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.1 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1.0 m;
b.2. Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” having any of the following:
b.2.a. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 0.9 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1.0 m;
b.2.b. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.4 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1 m and less than 4 m;
or
b.2.c. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 6.0 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 4 m;
b.3. A “unidirectional positioning repeatability” for jig boring machines, equal to or less (better) than 1.1 µm along one or more linear axis;
or
b.4. Fly cutting machines having all of the following:
b.4.a. Spindle “run-out” and “camming” less (better) than 0.0004 mm TIR;
and
b.4.b. Angular deviation of slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than 2 seconds of arc, TIR, over 300 mm of travel;
c. Machine tools for grinding having any of the following:
c.1. Having all of the following:
c.1.a. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.1 µm along one or more linear axis;
and
c.1.b. Three or four axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”;
or
c.2. Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” having any of the following:
c.2.a. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.1 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1m;
c.2.b. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 1.4 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1 m and less than 4 m;
or
c.2.c. “Unidirectional positioning repeatability” equal to or less (better) than 6.0 µm along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 4 m.
Notes:
2B001.c does not control grinding machines as follows:
a. Cylindrical external, internal, and external-internal grinding machines, having all of the following:
a.1. Limited to cylindrical grinding; and
a.2. Limited to a maximum workpiece capacity of 150 mm outside diameter or length.
b. Machines designed specifically as jig grinders that do not have a z-axis or a w-axis, with a “unidirectional positioning repeatability” less (better) than 1.1 µm.
c. Surface grinders.
d. Electrical discharge machines (EDM) of the non-wire type which have two or more rotary axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”;
e. Machine tools for removing metals, ceramics or “composites”, having all of the following:
e.1. Removing material by means of any of the following:
e.1.a. Water or other liquid jets, including those employing abrasive additives;
e.1.b. Electron beam; or
e.1.c. “Laser” beam; and
e.2. At least two rotary axes having all of the following:
e.2.a. Can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”; and
e.2.b. A positioning “accuracy” of less (better) than 0.003°;
f. Deep-hole-drilling machines and turning machines modified for deep-hole-drilling, having a maximum depth-of-bore capability exceeding 5m.
2B002 Numerically controlled optical finishing machine tools equipped for selective material removal to produce non-spherical optical surfaces having all of the following characteristics (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 2B001.
Related Definitions:
For the purposes of 2B002, ‘MRF’ is a material removal process using an abrasive magnetic fluid whose viscosity is controlled by a magnetic field. ‘ERF’ is a removal process using an abrasive fluid whose viscosity is controlled by an electric field. ‘Energetic particle beam finishing’ uses Reactive Atom Plasmas (RAP) or ion-beams to selectively remove material. ‘Inflatable membrane tool finishing’ is a process that uses a pressurized membrane that deforms to contact the workpiece over a small area.'Fluid jet finishing’ makes use of a fluid stream for material removal.
Items:
a. Finishing the form to less (better) than 1.0 µm;
b. Finishing to a roughness less (better) than 100 nm rms;
c. Four or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”;
and
d. Using any of the following processes:
d.1. ‘Magnetorheological finishing (MRF)’;
d.2. ‘Electrorheological finishing (ERF)’;
d.3. ‘Energetic particle beam finishing’;
d.4. ‘Inflatable membrane tool finishing’;
or
d.5. ‘Fluid jet finishing’.
2B003 “Numerically controlled” machine tools, “specially designed” for the shaving, finishing, grinding or honing of hardened (R
c
= 40 or more) spur, helical and double-helical gears having all of the following.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$5,000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also
2B993
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A pitch diameter exceeding 1,250 mm;
b. A face width of 15% of pitch diameter or larger;
and
c. A finished quality of AGMA 14 or better (equivalent to ISO 1328 class 3).
2B004 Hot “isostatic presses” having all of the characteristics described in the List of Items Controlled, and “specially designed” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
NP applies to entire entry, except 2B004.b.3 and presses with maximum working pressures below 69 MPa
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D001 for software for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) For “specially designed” dies, molds and tooling, see ECCNs 0B501, 0B602, 0B606, 1B003, 9B004, and 9B009. (4) For additional controls on dies, molds and tooling, see ECCNs 1B101.d, 2B104 and 2B204. (5) Also see ECCNs 2B117 and 2B999.a.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A controlled thermal environment within the closed cavity and possessing a chamber cavity with an inside diameter of 406 mm or more;
and
b. Having any of the following:
b.1. A maximum working pressure exceeding 207 MPa;
b.2. A controlled thermal environment exceeding 1,773 K (1,500 °C);
or
b.3. A facility for hydrocarbon impregnation and removal of resultant gaseous degradation products.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2B004, the inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature and the working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller of either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated furnace chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.
2B005 Equipment “specially designed” for the deposition, processing and in-process control of inorganic overlays, coatings and surface modifications, as follows, for substrates specified in column 2, by processes shown in column 1 in the “Materials Processing Table; Deposition Techniques” following 2E003.f (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” automated handling, positioning, manipulation and control “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$1000
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) This entry does not control chemical vapor deposition, cathodic arc, sputter deposition, ion plating or ion implantation equipment, “specially designed” for cutting or machining tools. (2) Vapor deposition equipment for the production of filamentary materials are controlled by 1B001 or 1B101. (3) Chemical Vapor Deposition furnaces designed or modified for densification of carbon-carbon composites are controlled by
2B105.
(4)
See also 2B999.i.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Chemical vapor deposition (CVD)“production equipment”having all of the following:
a.1. A process modified for one of the following:
a.1.a. Pulsating CVD;
a.1.b. Controlled nucleation thermal deposition (CNTD); or
a.1.c. Plasma enhanced or plasma assisted CVD; and
a.2. Having any of the following:
a.2.a. Incorporating high vacuum (equal to or less than 0.01 Pa) rotating seals; or
a.2.b. Incorporating in situ coating thickness control;
b. Ion implantation “production equipment” having beam currents of 5 mA or more;
c. Electron beam physical vapor deposition (EB-PVD) “production equipment” incorporating power systems rated for over 80 kW and having any of the following:
c.1. A liquid pool level “laser” control system which regulates precisely the ingots feed rate;
or
c.2. A computer controlled rate monitor operating on the principle of photo-luminescence of the ionized atoms in the evaporant stream to control the deposition rate of a coating containing two or more elements;
d. Plasma spraying “production equipment” having any of the following:
d.1. Operating at reduced pressure controlled atmosphere (equal or less than 10 kPa measured above and within 300 mm of the gun nozzle exit) in a vacuum chamber capable of evacuation down to 0.01 Pa prior to the spraying process;
or
d.2. Incorporating in situ coating thickness control;
e. Sputter deposition “production equipment” capable of current densities of 0.1 mA/mm
2
or higher at a deposition rate 15 µm/h or more;
f. Cathodic arc deposition “production equipment” incorporating a grid of electromagnets for steering control of the arc spot on the cathode;
g. Ion plating “production equipment” capable of
in situ
measurement of any of the following:
g.1. Coating thickness on the substrate and rate control;
or
g.2. Optical characteristics.
2B006 Dimensional inspection or measuring systems, equipment, position feedback units and “electronic assemblies”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to those items in 2B006.a, b.1, b.3, and .c (angular displacement measuring instruments) that meet or exceed the technical parameters in 2B206.
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2D001 and 2D002 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B206 and 2B996.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Computer controlled or “numerically controlled” Coordinate Measuring Machines (CMM), having a three dimensional length (volumetric) maximum permissible error of length measurement (E
0,MPE
) at any point within the operating range of the machine (
i.e.,
within the length of axes) equal to or less (better) than (1.7 + L/1,000) µm (L is the measured length in mm) according to ISO 10360-2 (2009);
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2B006.a, E
0,MPE
of the most accurate configuration of the CMM specified by the manufacturer (e.g.,best of the following: Probe, stylus length, motion parameters, environment) and with “all compensations available” shall be compared to the 1.7 + L/1,000 µm threshold.
b. Linear displacement measuring instruments or systems, linear position feedback units, and “electronic assemblies”, as follows:
Note:
Interferometer and optical-encoder measuring systems containing a “laser” are only specified by 2B006.b.3.
b.1. 'Non-contact type measuring systems' with a 'resolution' equal to or less (better) than 0.2 µm within 0 to 0.2 mm of the 'measuring range';
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 2B006.b.1:
1. 'Non-contact type measuring systems' are designed to measure the distance between the probe and measured object along a single vector, where the probe or measured object is in motion.
2. 'Measuring range' means the distance between the minimum and maximum working distance.
b.2. Linear position feedback units “specially designed” for machine tools and having an overall “accuracy” less (better) than (800 + (600 × L/1,000)) nm (L equals effective length in mm);
b.3. Measuring systems having all of the following:
b.3.a. Containing a “laser”;
b.3.b. A 'resolution' over their full scale of 0.200 nm or less (better);
and
b.3.c. Capable of achieving a “measurement uncertainty” equal to or less (better) than (1.6 + L/2,000) nm (L is the measured length in mm) at any point within a measuring range, when compensated for the refractive index of air and measured over a period of 30 seconds at a temperature of 20±0.01 °C;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2B006.b, 'resolution' is the least increment of a measuring device; on digital instruments, the least significant bit.
b.4. “Electronic assemblies” “specially designed” to provide feedback capability in systems controlled by 2B006.b.3;
c. Rotary position feedback units “specially designed” for machine tools or angular displacement measuring instruments, having an angular position “accuracy” equal to or less (better) than 0.9 second of arc;
Note:
2B006.c does not control optical instruments, such as autocollimators, using collimated light (e.g., “laser” light) to detect angular displacement of a mirror.
d. Equipment for measuring surface roughness (including surface defects), by measuring optical scatter with a sensitivity of 0.5 nm or less (better).
Note:
2B006 includes machine tools, other than those specified by 2B001, that can be used as measuring machines, if they meet or exceed the criteria specified for the measuring machine function.
2B007 “Robots” having any of the following characteristics described in the List of Items Controlled and “specially designed” controllers and “end-effectors” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
NP applies to equipment that meets or exceeds the criteria in ECCNs 2B207
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$5,000, except 2B007.b and .c
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D001 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B207, 2B225 and 2B997.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. “Specially designed” to comply with national safety standards applicable to potentially explosive munitions environments;
Note:
2B007.b does not apply to “robots” “specially designed” for paint-spraying booths.
c. “Specially designed” or rated as radiation-hardened to withstand a total radiation dose greater than 5 × 10
3
Gy (silicon) without operational degradation;
or
Technical Note:
The term Gy (silicon) refers to the energy in Joules per kilogram absorbed by an unshielded silicon sample when exposed to ionizing radiation.
d. “Specially designed” to operate at altitudes exceeding 30,000 m.
2B008 'Compound rotary tables' and “tilting spindles”, “specially designed” for machine tools, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 2B998.
Related Definition:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. [Reserved]
c. 'Compound rotary tables' having all of the following:
c.1. Designed for machine tools for turning, milling or grinding;
and
c.2. Two rotary axes designed to be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2B008.c, a 'compound rotary table' is a table allowing the workpiece to rotate and tilt about two non-parallel axes.
d. “Tilting spindles” having all of the following:
d.1. Designed for machine tools for turning, milling or grinding;
and
d.2. Designed to be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”.
2B009 Spin-forming machines and flow-forming machines, which, according to the manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with “numerical control” units or a computer control and having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to: spin-forming
machines combining the functions of spin-forming and flow-forming; and flow-forming machines that meet or exceed the parameters of 2B009.a and 2B109
MT Column 1
NP applies to flow-forming machines, and spin-forming machines capable of flow-forming functions, that meet or exceed the parameters of 2B209
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D001 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B109 and 2B209 for additional flow-forming machines for MT and NP reasons.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Three or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”;
and
b. A roller force more than 60 kN.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2B009, machines combining the function of spin-forming and flow-forming are regarded as flow-forming machines.
2B018 Equipment on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List.
No commodities currently are controlled by this entry. Commodities formerly controlled by paragraphs .a through .d, .m, and .s of this entry are controlled in ECCN 0B606. Commodities formerly controlled by paragraphs .e through .l of this entry are controlled by ECCN 0B602. Commodities formerly controlled by paragraphs .o through .r of this entry are controlled by ECCN 0B501. Commodities formerly controlled by paragraph .n of this entry are controlled in ECCN 0B501 if they are “specially designed” for the “production” of the items controlled in ECCNs 0A501.a through .x, 0A506, 0A507, or 0A509 or USML Category I and controlled in ECCN 0B602 if they are of the kind exclusively designed for use in the manufacture of items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.
2B104 “Isostatic presses”, other than those controlled by 2B004, having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D101 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B004, 2B204, and 2B117.
Related Definitions:
The inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature and the working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller of either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.
Items:
a. Maximum working pressure equal to or greater than 69 MPa;
b. Designed to achieve and maintain a controlled thermal environment of 873 K (600 °C) or greater; and
c. Possessing a chamber cavity with an inside diameter of 254 mm or greater.
2B105 Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) furnaces, other than those controlled by 2B005.a, designed or modified for the densification of carbon-carbon composites.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D101 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B005, 2B117, 2B226 and 2B227.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled in contained in the ECCN heading.
2B109 Flow-forming machines, other than those controlled by 2B009, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
NP applies to items controlled by this entry that meet or exceed the technical parameters in 2B209
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D101 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B009 and 2B209.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Flow-forming machines, usable in the “production” of propulsion components and equipment (e.g., motor cases and interstages) for “missiles”, having all of the following:
a.1. Equipped with, or according to the manufacturer's technical specification are capable of being equipped with, “numerical control” units or a computer control, even when not equipped with such units at delivery;
and
a.2. More than two axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control.”
b. “Specially designed” “parts” and “components” for flow-forming machines controlled in 2B009 for MT reasons or 2B109.a.
Technical Note:
1. Machines combining the function of spin-forming and flow-forming are for the purpose of 2B109 regarded as flow-forming machines.
2B116 Vibration test systems and equipment, usable for rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of achieving a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km and their subsystems, and “parts” and “components” therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to electrodynamic vibration test systems in 2B116.a and to all items in 2B116.b, .c, and .d
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D101 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 9B106 and 9B990.
Related Definitions:
Vibration test systems incorporating a digital controller are those systems, the functions of which are, partly or entirely, automatically controlled by stored and digitally coded electrical signals.
Items:
a. Vibration test systems employing feedback or closed loop techniques and incorporating a digital controller, capable of vibrating a system at an acceleration equal to or greater than 10 g rms between 20 Hz to 2,000 Hz while imparting forces equal to or greater than 50 kN (11,250 lbs.), measured ‘bare table’;
b. Digital controllers, combined with “specially designed” vibration test “software”, with a ‘real-time control bandwidth’ greater than 5 kHz and designed for use with vibration test systems described in 2B116.a;
c. Vibration thrusters (shaker units), with or without associated amplifiers, capable of imparting a force equal to or greater than 50 kN (11,250 lbs.), measured ‘bare table’, and usable in vibration test systems described in 2B116.a;
d. Test piece support structures and electronic units designed to combine multiple shaker units into a complete shaker system capable of providing an effective combined force equal to or greater than 50 kN, measured ‘bare table’, and usable in vibration test systems described in 2B116.a.
Technical Notes:
(1) ‘Bare table’ means a flat table, or surface, with no fixture or fitting.
(2) ‘Real-time control bandwidth’ is defined as the maximum rate at which a controller can execute complete cycles of sampling, processing data and transmitting control signals.
2B117 Equipment and process controls, other than those controlled by 2B004, 2B005.a, 2B104 or 2B105, designed or modified for the densification and pyrolysis of structural composite rocket nozzles and reentry vehicle nose tips.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D101 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3)
Also see
ECCN s 2B004, 2B005, 2B104, 2B105, and 2B204.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled in contained in the ECCN heading.
2B119 Balancing machines and related equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 7B101.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Balancing machines having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Not capable of balancing rotors/assemblies having a mass greater than 3 kg;
a.2. Capable of balancing rotors/assemblies at speeds greater than 12,500 rpm;
a.3. Capable of correcting unbalance in two planes or more; and
a.4. Capable of balancing to a residual specific unbalance of 0.2 g mm per kg of rotor mass.
Note:
2B119.a. does not control balancing machines designed or modified for dental or other medical equipment.
b. Indicator heads designed or modified for use with machines specified in 2B119.a.
Note:
Indicator heads are sometimes known as balancing instrumentation.
2B120 Motion simulators or rate tables (equipment capable of simulating motion), having all of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Rate tables not controlled by 2B120 and providing the characteristics of a positioning table are to be evaluated according to 2B121. (2) Equipment that has the characteristics specified in 2B121, which also meets the characteristics of 2B120 will be treated as equipment specified in 2B120. (3) See also 2B008, 2B121, 7B101 and 7B994.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Two or more axes;
b. Designed or modified to incorporate sliprings or integrated non-contact devices capable of transferring electrical power, signal information, or both;
and
c. Having any of the following characteristics:
c.1. For any single axis having all of the following:
c.1.a. Capable of rates of rotation of 400 degrees/s or more, or 30 degrees/s or less,
and
c.1.b. A rate resolution equal to or less than 6 degrees/s and an accuracy equal to or less than 0.6 degrees/s;
or
c.2. Having a worst-case rate stability equal to or better (less) than plus or minus 0.05% averaged over 10 degrees or more;
or
c.3. A positioning “accuracy” equal to or better than 5 arc-second.
Note:
2B120 does not control rotary tables designed or modified for machine tools or for medical equipment. For controls on machine tool rotary tables see 2B008.
2B121 Positioning tables (equipment capable of precise rotary position in any axis), other than those controlled in 2B120, having all the following characteristics (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) Equipment that has the characteristics specified in 2B121, which also meets the characteristics of 2B120 will be treated as equipment specified in 2B120. (2) See also 2B008, 2B120, 7B101, and 7B994.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Two or more axes;
and
b. A positioning “accuracy” equal to or better than 5 arc-second.
Note:
2B121 does not control rotary tables designed or modified for machine tools or for medical equipment. For controls on machine tool rotary tables see 2B008.
2B122 Centrifuges capable of imparting accelerations greater than 100 g and designed or modified to incorporate sliprings or integrated non-contact devices capable of transferring electrical power, signal information, or both.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 7B101.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2B201 Machine tools, and any combination thereof, other than those controlled by 2B001, for removing or cutting metals, ceramics or “composites,” which, according to manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous “contouring control” in two or more axes.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2D002 and 2D202 for “software” for items controlled by this entry. “Numerical control” units are controlled by their associated “software”. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B001 and 2B991.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
Note:
2B201 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of any of the following parts:
a. Gears;
b. Crank shafts or cam shafts;
c. Tools or cutters;
d. Extruder worms;
Technical Note:
The identified positioning accuracy values in this entry are based on ISO 230/2 (2006), which equates to the values based on ISO 230/2 (1988) that are used by the Nuclear Supplier's Group (NSG). In 2B201.a and .b.1, this results in a change from 6 µm to 4.5 µm. In paragraph .b of the Note to 2B201.b, the resulting change is from 30 µm to 22.5 µm, In 2B201.c, the resulting change is from 4 µm to 3 µm.
a. Machine tools for turning, that have positioning accuracies according to ISO 230/2 (2006) with all compensations available better (less) than 4.5 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for machines capable of machining diameters greater than 35 mm;
Note to 2B201.a:
2B201.a does not control bar machines (Swissturn), limited to machining only bar feed thru, if maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability of mounting chucks. Machines may have drilling and/or milling capabilities for machining parts with diameters less than 42 mm.
b. Machine tools for milling, having any of the following characteristics:
b.1. Positioning accuracies according to ISO 230/2 (2006) with “all compensations available” equal to or less (better) than 4.5 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning);
b.2. Two or more contouring rotary axes;
or
b.3. Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control.”
Note to 2B201.b:
2B201.b does not control milling machines having the following characteristics:
a. X-axis travel greater than 2 m; and
b. Overall positioning accuracy according to ISO 230/2 (2006) on the x-axis more (worse) than 22.5 µm.
c. Machine tools for grinding, having any of the following characteristics:
c.1. Positioning accuracies according to ISO 230/2 (2006) with “all compensations available” equal to or less (better) than 3 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning);
c.2. Two or more contouring rotary axes; or
c.3. Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control.”
Note to 2B201.c:
2B201.c does not control the following grinding machines:
a. Cylindrical external, internal, and external-internal grinding machines having all of the following characteristics:
1. Limited to a maximum workpiece capacity of 150 mm outside diameter or length; and
2. Axes limited to x, z and c.
b. Jig grinders that do not have a z-axis or a w-axis with an overall positioning accuracy less (better) than 3 microns. Positioning accuracy is according to ISO 230/2 (2006).
Technical Note:
2B201.b.3 and c.3 include machines based on a parallel linear kinematic design (e.g. hexapods) that have 5 or more axes none of which are rotary axes.
2B204 “Isostatic presses”, other than those controlled by 2B004 or 2B104, and related equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D201 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3)
Also see
ECCNs 2B004 and 2B104.
Related Definitions:
The inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature and working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller of either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.
Items:
a. “Isostatic presses” having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. Capable of achieving a maximum working pressure of 69 MPa or greater;
and
a.2. A chamber cavity with an inside diameter in excess of 152 mm;
b. Dies, molds and controls, “specially designed” for “isostatic presses” controlled by 2B204.a.
2B206 Dimensional inspection machines, instruments or systems, other than those described in 2B006, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs
2D002
and
2D201
for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs
2E001
(“development”),
2E002
(“production”), and
2E201
(“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs
2B006
and
2B996.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
Control Notes to ECCN 2B206:
(1) Machine tools that can be used as measuring machines are controlled by ECCN 2B206 if they meet or exceed the control parameters specified in this entry for the measuring machine function. (2) The machines described in ECCN 2B206 are controlled by this entry if they exceed the specified control threshold anywhere in their operating range.
Technical Note to ECCN 2B206:
All parameters of measurement values in this entry represent plus/minus, i.e., not total band.
a. Computer controlled or numerically controlled coordinate measuring machines (CMM) with either of the following characteristics:
a.1. Having only two axes with a maximum permissible error of length measurement along any axis (one dimension), identified as any combination of E
0x MPE
, E
0y MPE
or E
0z MPE
, equal to or less (better) than (1.25 + L/1,000) µm (where L is the measured length in mm) at any point within the operating range of the machine (
i.e.,
within the length of the axis), according to ISO 10360-2 (2009);
or
a.2. Having three or more axes with a three dimensional (volumetric) maximum permissible error of length measurement, identified as E
0
,
MPE
, equal to or less (better) than (1.7 + L/800) µm (where L is the measured length in mm) at any point within the operating range of the machine (
i.e.,
within the length of the axis), according to ISO 10360-2 (2009).
Technical Note to 2B206.a.2:
The
E
0
,
MPE
of the most accurate configuration of the CMM specified according to ISO 10360-2 (2009) by the manufacturer (e.g., best of the following: Probe, stylus length, motion parameters, environment) and with all compensations available shall be compared to the 1.7 + L/800 µm threshold.
b. Systems for simultaneous linear-angular inspection of hemishells, having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. “Measurement uncertainty” along any linear axis equal to or less (better) than 3.5 µm per 5 mm;
and
b.2. “Angular position deviation” equal to or less than 0.02°.
c. Linear displacement measuring systems having both of the following characteristics:
c.1. Containing a “laser;”
and
c.2. Capable of maintaining, for at least 12 hours over a temperature range of ± 1 K around a standard temperature and a standard pressure, both:
c.2.a. A “resolution” over their full scale of 0.1 µm or better;
and
c.2.b. A “measurement uncertainty” equal to or better (less) than (0.2 + L/2,000) µm (L is the measured length in millimeters).
Control Note to 2B206.c:
2B206.c does not control measuring interferometer systems, without closed or open loop feedback, containing a “laser” to measure slide movement errors of machine tools, dimensional inspection machines, or similar equipment.
Technical Note to 2B206.c:
In 2B206.c, “linear displacement” means the change of distance between the measuring probe and the measured object.
d. Linear Variable Differential Transformer (LVDT) systems having all of the following:
d.1. Having any of the following:
d.1.a. “Linearity” equal to or less (better) than 0.1% measured from 0 to the full operating range, for LVDTs with a full operating range up to and including ±5 mm;
or
d.1.b. “Linearity” equal to or less (better) than 0.1% measured from 0 to 5 mm for LVDTs with a 'full operating range' greater than ±5 mm;
and
d.2. Drift equal to or less (better) than 0.1% per day at a standard ambient test room temperature ±1 K.
2B207 “Robots”, “end-effectors” and control units, other than those controlled by 2B007, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D201 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3)
Also see
ECCNs 2B007, 2B225, and 2B997.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control “robots” “specially designed” for non-nuclear industrial applications, such as automobile paint-spraying booths.
Items:
a. “Robots” or “end-effectors” “specially designed” to comply with national safety standards applicable to handling high explosives (for example, meeting electrical code ratings for high explosives);
b. Control units “specially designed” for any of the “robots” or “end-effectors” controlled by 2B207.a.
2B209 Flow forming machines, spin forming machines capable of flow forming functions, other than those controlled by 2B009 or 2B109, and mandrels, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D201 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) Also see ECCNs 2B009 and 2B109.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Machines having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. Three or more rollers (active or guiding);
and
a.2. According to the manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with “numerical control” units or a computer control;
Note:
2B209.a includes machines that have only a single roller designed to deform metal, plus two auxiliary rollers that support the mandrel, but do not participate directly in the deformation process.
b. Rotor-forming mandrels designed to form cylindrical rotors of inside diameter between 75 mm and 650 mm.
2B225 Remote manipulators that can be used to provide remote actions in radiochemical separation operations or hot cells, having either of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2)
Also see
ECCNs 2B007 and 2B207. (3) Remote manipulators “specially designed” or prepared for use in fuel reprocessing or for use in a reactor are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. A capability of penetrating 0.6 m or more of hot cell wall (through-the-wall operation);
or
b. A capability of bridging over the top of a hot cell wall with a thickness of 0.6 m or more (over-the-wall operation).
Technical Note:
Remote manipulators provide translation of human operator actions to a remote operating arm and terminal fixture. They may be of “master/slave” type or operated by joystick or keypad.
2B226 Controlled atmosphere (vacuum or inert gas) induction furnaces, and power supplies therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 2B227 and Category 3B.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
2B226.a does not control furnaces designed for the processing of semiconductor wafers.
Items:
a. Furnaces having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Capable of operation above 1,123 K (850 °C);
a.2. Induction coils 600 mm or less in diameter;
and
a.3. Designed for power inputs of 5 kW or more;
b. Power supplies, with a specified power output of 5 kW or more, “specially designed” for furnaces controlled by 2B226.a.
2B227 Vacuum or other controlled atmosphere metallurgical melting and casting furnaces and related equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D201 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 2B226.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Arc remelt and casting furnaces having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. Consumable electrode capabilities between 1,000 cm
3
and 20,000 cm
3
;
and
a.2. Capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1,973 K (1,700 °C);
b. Electron beam melting furnaces and plasma atomization and melting furnaces, having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. A power of 50 kW or greater;
and
b.2. Capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1,473 K (1,200 °C);
c. Computer control and monitoring systems specially configured for any of the furnaces controlled by 2B227.a or .b.
2B228 Rotor fabrication and assembly equipment, rotor straightening equipment, bellows-forming mandrels and dies, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Rotor assembly equipment for assembly of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections, baffles, and end-caps;
Note:
2B228.a includes precision mandrels, clamps, and shrink fit machines.
b. Rotor straightening equipment for alignment of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections to a common axis;
Technical Note:
The rotor straightening equipment in 2B228.b normally consists of precision measuring probes linked to a computer that subsequently controls the action of, for example, pneumatic rams used for aligning the rotor tube sections.
c. Bellows-forming mandrels and dies for producing single-convolution bellows.
Technical Note:
In 2B228.c, the bellows have all of the following characteristics:
1. Inside diameter between 75 mm and 650 mm;
2. Length equal to or greater than 12.7 mm;
3. Single convolution depth greater than 2 mm; and
4. Made of high-strength aluminum alloys, maraging steel or high strength “fibrous or filamentary materials”.
2B229 Centrifugal multiplane balancing machines, fixed or portable, horizontal or vertical, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 2D201 for “software” for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing flexible rotors having a length of 600 mm or more and having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Swing or journal diameter greater than 75 mm;
a.2. Mass capability of from 0.9 to 23 kg;
and
a.3. Capable of balancing speed of revolution greater than 5,000 r.p.m.;
b. Centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing hollow cylindrical rotor “parts” or “components” and having all of the following characteristics:
b.1. Journal diameter greater than 75 mm;
b.2. Mass capability of from 0.9 to 23 kg;
b.3. A minimum achievable residual specific unbalance equal to or less than 10 g-mm/kg per plane;
and
b.4. Belt drive type.
2B230 All types of “pressure transducers” capable of measuring absolute pressures and having all of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls: See
ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
(1) For purposes of this entry, “pressure transducers” are devices that convert pressure measurements into a signal. (2) For purposes of this entry, “accuracy” includes non-linearity, hysteresis and repeatability at ambient temperature.
Items:
a. Pressure sensing elements made of or protected by aluminum, aluminum alloy, aluminum oxide (alumina or sapphire), nickel, nickel alloy with more than 60% nickel by weight, or fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers;
b. Seals, if any, essential for sealing the pressure sensing element, and in direct contact with the process medium, made of or protected by aluminum, aluminum alloy, aluminum oxide (alumina or sapphire), nickel, nickel alloy with more than 60% nickel by weight, or fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers; and
c. Either of the following characteristics:
c.1. A full scale of less 13 kPa and an “accuracy” of better than ±1% of full scale;
or
c.2. A full scale of 13 kPa or greater and an “accuracy” of better than ±130 Pa when measuring at 13 kPa.
2B231 Vacuum pumps having all of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for “technology” for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see bellows-sealed scroll-type compressors and bellows-sealed scroll-type vacuum pumps controlled under ECCN 2B233. (3) Vacuum pumps “specially designed” or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
(1) The pumping speed is determined at the measurement point with nitrogen gas or air. (2) The ultimate vacuum is determined at the input of the pump with the input of the pump blocked off.
Items:
a. Input throat size equal to or greater than 380 mm;
b. Pumping speed equal to or greater than 15 m
3
/s;
and
c. Capable of producing an ultimate vacuum better than 13.3 mPa.
2B232 High-velocity gun systems (propellant, gas, coil, electromagnetic, and electrothermal types, and other advanced systems) capable of accelerating projectiles to 1.5 km/s or greater.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2B233 Bellows-sealed scroll-type compressors and bellows-sealed scroll-type vacuum pumps having all of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and 2E201 (“use”) for “technology” for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see vacuum pumps controlled under ECCN 2B231. (3) Vacuum pumps “specially designed” or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Capable of an inlet volume flow rate of 50 m
3
/h or greater;
b. Capable of a pressure ratio of 2:1 or greater;
and
c. Having all surfaces that come in contact with the process gas made from any of the following:
c.1. Aluminum or aluminum alloy;
c.2. Aluminum oxide;
c.3. Stainless steel;
c.4. Nickel or nickel alloy;
c.5. Phosphor bronze;
or
c.6. Fluoropolymers.
Technical Notes:
1. In a scroll compressor or vacuum pump, crescent-shaped pockets of gas are trapped between one or more pairs of intermeshed spiral vanes, or scrolls, one of which moves while the other remains stationary. The moving scroll orbits the stationary scroll; it does not rotate. As the moving scroll orbits the stationary scroll, the gas pockets diminish in size (i.e., they are compressed) as they move toward the outlet port of the machine.
2. In a bellows-sealed scroll compressor or vacuum pump, the process gas is totally isolated from the lubricated parts of the pump and from the external atmosphere by a metal bellows. One end of the bellows is attached to the moving scroll and the other end is attached to the stationary housing of the pump.
3. Fluoropolymers include, but are not limited to, the following materials:
a. Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE);
b. Fluorinated Ethylene Propylene (FEP);
c. Perfluoroalkoxy (PFA);
d. Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE); and
e. Vinylidene fluoride-hexafluoropropylene copolymer.
2B350 Chemical manufacturing facilities and equipment, except valves controlled by 2A226, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
License Requirement Note:
This ECCN does not control equipment that is both: (1) “Specially Designed” for use in civil applications e.g., food processing, pulp and paper processing, or water purification) and (2) inappropriate, by the nature of its design, for use in storing, processing, producing or conducting and controlling the flow of the chemical weapons precursors controlled by 1C350.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$2,000 for all Country Group B destinations, except those also listed under Country Group D:3 (see Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also ECCNs 2A226, 2A992, 2A993, 2B231, and 2B999.
Related Definitions:
For purposes of this entry the term 'chemical warfare agents' includes those agents “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Items:
a. Reaction vessels, reactors and prefabricated repair assemblies therefor, as follows:
a.1. Reaction vessels or reactors, with or without agitators, with total internal (geometric) volume greater than 0.1 m
3
(100 liters) and less than 20 m
3
(20,000 liters), where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following materials:
a.1.a Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
a.1.b. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
a.1.c. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
a.1.d. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coating or glass lining);
a.1.e. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
a.1.f. Titanium or titanium alloys;
a.1.g. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
or
a.1.h. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys;
a.2. Prefabricated repair assemblies, and their specially designed components, that:
a.2.a. Are designed for mechanical attachment to glass-lined reaction vessels or reactors described in 2B350.a.1;
and
a.2.b. Have metallic surfaces that are made from tantalum or tantalum alloys and come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed.
b. Agitators designed for use in reaction vessels or reactors described in 2B350.a.1, and impellers, blades or shafts designed for such agitators, where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following materials:
b.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
b.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
b.3. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
b.4. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
b.5. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
b.6. Titanium or titanium alloys;
b.7. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
or
b.8. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys.
c. Storage tanks, containers, receivers and prefabricated repair assemblies therefor, as follows:
c.1. Storage tanks, containers or receivers with a total internal (geometric) volume greater than 0.1 m
3
(100 liters) where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following materials:
c.1.a. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
c.1.b. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
c.1.c. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
c.1.d. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
c.1.e. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
c.1.f. Titanium or titanium alloys;
c.1.g. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
or
c.1.h. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys;
c.2. Prefabricated repair assemblies, and their specially designed components, that:
c.2.a. Are designed for mechanical attachment to glass-lined storage tanks, containers or receivers described in 2B350.c.1;
and
c.2.b. Have metallic surfaces that are made from tantalum or tantalum alloys and come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed.
d. Heat exchangers or condensers with a heat transfer surface area of less than 20 m
2
, but greater than 0.15 m
2
, and tubes, plates, coils or blocks (cores) designed for such heat exchangers or condensers, where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following materials:
d.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
d.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
d.3. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
d.4. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
d.5. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
d.6. Titanium or titanium alloys;
d.7. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
d.8. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys;
d.9. Graphite or carbon-graphite;
d.10. Silicon carbide;
or
d.11. Titanium carbide.
e. Distillation or absorption columns of internal diameter greater than 0.1 m, and liquid distributors, vapor distributors or liquid collectors designed for such distillation or absorption columns, where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following materials:
e.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
e.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
e.3. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
e.4. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
e.5. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
e.6. Titanium or titanium alloys;
e.7. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
e.8. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys;
or
e.9. Graphite or carbon-graphite.
f. Remotely operated filling equipment in which all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following materials:
f.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
or
f.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight.
g. Valves, as follows:
g.1. Valves having both of the following characteristics:
g.1.a. A nominal size greater than 1.0 cm (
3/8
in.);
and
g.1.b. All surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or contained are made from materials identified in Technical Note 1 to 2B350.g.
g.2. Valves, except for valves controlled by 2B350.g.1, having all of the following characteristics:
g.2.a. A nominal size equal to or greater than 2.54 cm (1 inch) and equal to or less than 10.16 cm (4 inches);
g.2.b. Casings (valve bodies) or preformed casing liners controlled by 2B350.g.3, in which all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or contained are made from materials identified in Technical Note 1 to 2B350.g;
and
g.2.c. A closure element designed to be interchangeable.
g.3. Casings (valve bodies) and preformed casing liners having both of the following characteristics:
g.3.a. Designed for valves in 2B350.g.1 or .g.2;
and
g.3.b. All surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or contained are made from materials identified in Technical Note 1 to 2B350.g.
Technical Note 1 to 2B350.g:
All surfaces of the valves controlled by 2B350.g.1, and the casings (valve bodies) and preformed casing liners controlled by 2B350.g.3, that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or contained are made from the following materials:
a. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
b. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
c. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
d. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coating or glass lining);
e. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
f. Titanium or titanium alloys;
g. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
h. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys; or
i. Ceramic materials, as follows:
i.1. Silicon carbide with a purity of 80% or more by weight;
i.2. Aluminum oxide (alumina) with a purity of 99.9% or more by weight; or
i.3. Zirconium oxide (zirconia).
Technical Note 2 to 2B350.g:
The 'nominal size' is defined as the smaller of the inlet and outlet port diameters.
h. Multi-walled piping incorporating a leak detection port, in which all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following materials:
h.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
h.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
h.3. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
h.4. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
h.5. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
h.6. Titanium or titanium alloys;
h.7. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
h.8. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys;
or
h.9. Graphite or carbon-graphite.
i. Multiple-seal and seal-less pumps with manufacturer's specified maximum flow-rate greater than 0.6 m
3
/hour (600 liters/hour), or vacuum pumps with manufacturer's specified maximum flow-rate greater than 5 m
3
/hour (5,000 liters/hour) (under standard temperature (273 K (0 °C)) and pressure (101.3 kPa) conditions), and casings (pump bodies), preformed casing liners, impellers, rotors or jet pump nozzles designed for such pumps, in
which all surfaces that come into direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following materials:
i.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
i.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
i.3. Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by weight);
i.4. Glass (including vitrified or enameled coatings or glass lining);
i.5. Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
i.6. Titanium or titanium alloys;
i.7. Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
i.8. Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys.
i.9. Graphite or carbon-graphite;
i.10. Ceramics;
or
i.11. Ferrosilicon (high silicon iron alloys).
Technical Note to 2B350.i:
The seals referred to in 2B350.i come into direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed (or are designed to do so), and provide a sealing function where a rotary or reciprocating drive shaft passes through a pump body.
j. Incinerators designed to destroy chemical warfare agents, chemical weapons precursors controlled by 1C350, or chemical munitions having “specially designed” waste supply systems, special handling facilities and an average combustion chamber temperature greater than 1000 °C in which all surfaces in the waste supply system that come into direct contact with the waste products are made from or lined with any of the following materials:
j.1. Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
j.2. Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
or
j.3. Ceramics.
Technical Note 1:
Carbon-graphite is a composition consisting primarily of graphite and amorphous carbon, in which the graphite is 8 percent or more by weight of the composition.
Technical Note 2:
For the items listed in 2B350, the term 'alloy,' when not accompanied by a specific elemental concentration, is understood as identifying those alloys where the identified metal is present in a higher percentage by weight than any other element.
Technical Note 3:
The materials used for gaskets, packing, seals, screws or washers, or other materials performing a sealing function, do not determine the control status of the items in this ECCN, provided that such components are designed to be interchangeable.
Note:
See Categories V and XIV of the United States Munitions List for all chemicals that are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
2B351 Toxic gas monitors and monitoring systems, and their dedicated detecting “parts” and “components” (
i.e.,
detectors, sensor devices, and replaceable sensor cartridges), as follows, except those systems and detectors controlled by ECCN 1A004.c (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 2D351 for “software” for toxic gas monitors and monitoring systems, and their dedicated detecting “parts” and “components,” controlled by this ECCN. Also see ECCN 1A004, which controls chemical detection systems and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor that are “specially designed” or modified for detection or identification of chemical warfare agents, but not “specially designed” for military use, and ECCN 1A995, which controls certain detection equipment, “parts” and “components” not controlled by ECCN 1A004 or by this ECCN.
Related Definitions:
(1) For the purposes of this entry, the term “dedicated” means committed entirely to a single purpose or device. (2) For the purposes of this entry, the term “continuous operation” describes the capability of the equipment to operate on line without human intervention. The intent of this entry is to control toxic gas monitors and monitoring systems capable of collection and detection of samples in environments such as chemical plants, rather than those used for batch-mode operation in laboratories.
Items:
a. Designed for continuous operation and usable for the detection of chemical warfare agents or precursor chemicals controlled by 1C350 'minimum detection limit' of 0.3 mg/m
3
;
or
b. Designed for the detection of cholinesterase-inhibiting activity.
Technical note:
The 'minimum detection limit' of toxic gas monitors or monitoring systems is the lowest detectable concentration of the analyte required to produce a signal greater than three times the standard deviation of the toxic gas monitor's or monitoring system's signal when measuring a blank sample.
In the case of toxic gas monitors or monitoring systems having a deadband or programmed zero suppression, the 'minimum detection limit' is the
lowest detectable concentration required to produce a reading.
2B352 Equipment Capable of Use in Handling Biological Materials, as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to
part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCNs 1A004 and 1A995 for protective equipment that is not covered by this entry. Also see ECCN 9A120 for controls on certain “UAV” systems designed or modified to dispense an aerosol and capable of carrying elements of a payload in the form of a particulate or liquid, other than fuel “parts” or “components” of such vehicles, of a volume greater than 20 liters.
Related Definitions:
(1) “Lighter than air vehicles”—balloons and airships that rely on hot air or on lighter-than-air gases, such as helium or hydrogen, for their lift. (2) “UAVs”—Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. (3) “VMD”—Volume Median Diameter.
Items:
a. Containment facilities and related equipment, as follows:
a.1. Complete containment facilities at P3 or P4 containment level.
Technical Note to 2B352.a.1:
P3 or P4 (BL3, BL4, L3, L4) containment levels are as specified in the WHO Laboratory Biosafety Manual (3rd edition, Geneva, 2004).
a.2. Equipment designed for fixed installation in containment facilities specified in paragraph a.1 of this ECCN, as follows:
a.2.a. Double-door pass-through decontamination autoclaves;
a.2.b. Breathing air suit decontamination showers;
a.2.c. Mechanical-seal or inflatable-seal walkthrough doors.
b. Fermenters and components as follows:
b.1. Fermenters capable of cultivation of micro-organisms or of live cells for the production of viruses or toxins, without the propagation of aerosols, having a total internal volume of 20 liters or greater.
b.2. Components designed for such fermenters, as follows:
b.2.a. Cultivation chambers designed to be sterilized or disinfected in situ;
b.2.b. Cultivation chamber holding devices;
or
b.2.c. Process control units capable of simultaneously monitoring and controlling two or more fermentation system parameters (
e.g.,
temperature, pH, nutrients, agitation, dissolved oxygen, air flow, foam control).
Technical Notes to 2B352.b:
1. Fermenters include bioreactors (including single-use (disposable) bioreactors), chemostats and continuous-flow systems.
2. Cultivation chamber holding devices controlled by 2B352.b.2.b include single-use cultivation chambers with rigid walls.
c. Centrifugal separators capable of continuous separation, without the propagation of aerosols, having a flow rate greater than 100 liters per hour, as follows:
c.1. Centrifugal separators having all of the following characteristics:
c.1.a. One or more sealing joints within the steam containment area;
c.1.b. Components of polished stainless steel or titanium;
and
c.1.c. Capable of in-situ steam sterilization in a closed state.
c.2. Single-use centrifugal separators, in which all components that come in direct contact with the substances being processed are disposable or single-use.
Technical Note to 2B352.c:
Centrifugal separators and single-use centrifugal separators include decanters.
d. Cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment and “accessories”, as follows:
d.1. Cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment capable of separation of microorganisms, viruses, toxins or cell cultures having all of the following characteristics:
d.1.a. A total filtration area equal to or greater than 1 square meter (1 m
2
);
and
d.1.b. Having any of the following characteristics:
d.1.b.1. Capable of being sterilized or disinfected in-situ;
or
d.1.b.2. Using disposable or single-use filtration “parts” or “components”.
N.B.:
2B352.d.1 does not control reverse osmosis and hemodialysis equipment, as specified by the manufacturer.
d.2. Cross (tangential) flow filtration “parts” or “components” (
e.g.,
modules, elements, cassettes, cartridges, units or plates) with filtration area equal to or greater than 0.2 square meters (0.2 m
2
) for each “part” or “component” and designed for use in cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment controlled by 2B352.d.1.
Technical Note:
In this ECCN, “sterilized” denotes the elimination of all viable microbes from the equipment through the use of either physical (e.g., steam) or chemical agents. “Disinfected” denotes a process to reduce the number of microorganisms, but not usually of bacterial spores, through the use of chemical agents, without necessarily killing or removing all organisms.
e. Steam, gas or vapor sterilizable freeze-drying equipment with a condenser capacity of 10 kg of ice or greater in 24 hours (10 liters of water or greater in 24 hours) and less than 1000 kg of ice in 24 hours (less than 1,000 liters of water in 24 hours).
f. Spray-drying equipment capable of drying toxins or pathogenic microorganisms having all of the following characteristics:
f.1. A water evaporation capacity of ≥0.4 kg/h and ≤400 kg/h;
f.2. The ability to generate a typical mean product particle size of ≤10 micrometers with existing fittings or by minimal modification of the spray-dryer with atomization nozzles enabling generation of the required particle size;
and
f.3. Capable of being sterilized or disinfected in situ.
g. Protective and containment equipment, as follows:
g.1. Protective full or half suits, or hoods dependent upon a tethered external air supply and operating under positive pressure.
Technical Note to 2B352.g.1:
2B352.g.1 does not control suits designed to be worn with self-contained breathing apparatus.
g.2. Biocontainment chambers, isolators, or biological safety cabinets having all of the following characteristics, for normal operation:
g.2.a. Fully enclosed workspace where the operator is separated from the work by a physical barrier;
g.2.b. Able to operate at negative pressure;
g.2.c. Means to safely manipulate items in the workspace;
and
g.2.d. Supply and exhaust air to and from the workspace is high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filtered.
Note 1 to 2B352.g.2:
2B352.g.2 controls class III biosafety cabinets, as specified in the WHO Laboratory Biosafety Manual (3rd edition, Geneva, 2004) or constructed in accordance with national standards, regulations or guidance.
Note 2 to 2B352.g.2:
2B352.g.2 controls any isolator having all of the characteristics described in 2B352.g.2.a through g.2.d, regardless of its intended use and its designation, except for medical isolators “specially designed” for barrier nursing or transportation of infected patients.
h. Aerosol inhalation equipment designed for aerosol challenge testing with microorganisms, viruses or toxins, as follows:
h.1. Whole-body exposure chambers having a capacity of 1 cubic meter or greater;
h.2. Nose-only exposure apparatus utilizing directed aerosol flow and having a capacity for the exposure of 12 or more rodents, or two or more animals other than rodents, and closed animal restraint tubes designed for use with such apparatus.
i. Spraying or fogging systems and “parts” and “components” therefor, as follows:
i.1. Complete spraying or fogging systems, “specially designed” or modified for fitting to aircraft, “lighter than air vehicles,” or “UAVs,” capable of delivering, from a liquid suspension, an initial droplet “VMD” of less than 50 microns at a flow rate of greater than 2 liters per minute;
i.2. Spray booms or arrays of aerosol generating units, “specially designed” or modified for fitting to aircraft, “lighter than air vehicles,” or “UAVs,” capable of delivering, from a liquid suspension, an initial droplet “VMD” of less than 50 microns at a flow rate of greater than 2 liters per minute;
i.3. Aerosol generating units “specially designed” for fitting to the systems as specified in paragraphs i.1 and i.2 of this ECCN.
Technical Notes to 2B352.i:
1. Aerosol generating units are devices “specially designed” or modified for fitting to aircraft and include nozzles, rotary drum atomizers and similar devices.
2. This ECCN does not control spraying or fogging systems, “parts” and “components,” as specified in 2B352.i, that are demonstrated not to be capable of delivering biological agents in the form of infectious aerosols.
3. Droplet size for spray equipment or nozzles “specially designed” for use on aircraft or “UAVs” should be measured using either of the following methods (pending the adoption of internationally accepted standards):
a. Doppler laser method,
b. Forward laser diffraction method.
j. Nucleic acid assemblers and synthesizers that are both:
j.1 Partly or entirely automated;
and
j.2. Designed to generate continuous nucleic acids greater than 1.5 kilobases in length with error rates less than 5% in a single run.
k. Peptide synthesizers that are both:
k.1 Partly or entirely automated;
and
k.2 Capable of generating peptides at a 'system synthesis scale' of 1 mmol or greater.
Technical Note to 2B352.k:
'System synthesis scale' denotes the maximum amount of peptide (mmol) that can be produced by the instrument using the largest compatible reaction vessels (L). For multiple peptides produced in parallel, this is the sum of the largest compatible reaction vessels (L).
N.B. to paragraph .k:
See ECCN 2B350 for other chemical reaction vessels or reactors.
2B910 Additive manufacturing equipment, designed to produce metal or metal alloy components, having all of the following (see List of Items Controlled), and “specially designed” “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.4(a)(5) and (b)(10) of the EAR.
RS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.6(a)(10) and (b)(11) of the EAR.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
IEC:
Yes, see § 740.2(a)(22) and § 740.24 of the EAR.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this ECCN to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
For related “technology” see ECCN 2E910.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Having at least one of the following consolidation sources:
a.1. “Laser”;
a.2. Electron beam;
or
a.3. Electric arc;
b. Having a controlled process atmosphere of any of the following:
b.1. Inert gas;
or
b.2. Vacuum (equal to or less than 100 Pa);
c. Having any of the following 'in-process monitoring' equipment in a 'co-axial configuration' or 'paraxial configuration':
c.1. Imaging camera with a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 380 nm but not exceeding 14,000 nm;
c.2. Pyrometer designed to measure temperatures greater than 1,273.15K (1,000 °C);
or
c.3. Radiometer or spectrometer with a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 380 nm but not exceeding 3,000 nm;
and
d. A closed loop control system designed to modify the consolidation source parameters, build path, or equipment settings during the build cycle in response to feedback from 'in-process monitoring' equipment specified in 2B910.c.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 2B910:
1. 'In-process monitoring', also known as in-situ process monitoring, pertains to the observation and measurement of the additive manufacturing process including electromagnetic, or thermal, emissions from the melt pool.
2. 'Co-axial configuration', also known as on-axis or inline configuration, pertains to one or more sensors that are mounted in an optical path shared by the “laser” consolidation source.
3. 'Paraxial configuration' pertains to one or more sensors that are physically mounted onto or integrated into the “laser”, electron beam, or electric arc consolidation source component.
4. For both 'co-axial configuration' and 'paraxial configuration', the field of view of the sensor(s) is fixed to the moving reference frame of the consolidation source and moves in the same scan trajectories of the consolidation source throughout the build process.
2B991 Numerical control units for machine tools and “numerically controlled” machine tools, n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also ECCNs 2B001 and 2B201.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Numerical control” units for machine tools:
a.1. Having four interpolating axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control;” or
a.2. Having two or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” and a minimum programmable increment better (less) than 0.001 mm;
a.3. “Numerical control” units for machine tools having two, three or four interpolating axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control,” and capable of receiving directly (on-line) and processing computer-aided-design (CAD) data for internal preparation of machine instructions;
or
b. “Motion control boards” “specially designed” for machine tools and having any of the following characteristics:
b.1. Interpolation in more than four axes;
b.2. Capable of “real-time processing” of data to modify tool path, feed rate and spindle data, during the machining operation, by any of the following:
b.2.a. Automatic calculation and modification of part program data for machining in two or more axes by means of measuring cycles and access to source data;
or
b.2.b. “Adaptive control” with more than one physical variable measured and processed by means of a computing model (strategy) to change one or more machining instructions to optimize the process.
b.3. Capable of receiving and processing CAD data for internal preparation of machine instructions;
or
c. “Numerically controlled” machine tools that, according to the manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with
electronic devices for simultaneous “contouring control” in two or more axes and that have both of the following characteristics:
c.1. Two or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control;
and
c.2. Positioning accuracies according to ISO 230/2 (2006), with all compensations available:
c.2.a. Better than 15 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for grinding machines;
c.2.b. Better than 15 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for milling machines;
or
c.2.c. Better than 15 µm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for turning machines;
or
d. Machine tools, as follows, for removing or cutting metals, ceramics or composites, that, according to the manufacturer's technical specifications, can be equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous “contouring control” in two or more axes:
d.1. Machine tools for turning, grinding, milling or any combination thereof, having two or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control” and having any of the following characteristics:
d.1.a. One or more contouring “tilting spindles;”
Note:
2B991.d.1.a. applies to machine tools for grinding or milling only.
d.1.b. “Camming” (axial displacement) in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0.0006 mm total indicator reading (TIR);
Note:
2B991.d.1.b. applies to machine tools for turning only.
d.1.c. “Run out” (out-of-true running) in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0.0006 mm total indicator reading (TIR);
d.1.d. The “positioning accuracies”, with all compensations available, are less (better) than: 0.001° on any rotary axis;
d.2. Electrical discharge machines (EDM) of the wire feed type that have five or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control.”
2B992 Non-“numerically controlled” machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces, (see List of Items Controlled) and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related
Controls: N/A
Related
Definitions: N/A
Items:
a. Turning machines using a single point cutting tool and having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Slide positioning accuracy less (better) than 0.0005 mm per 300 mm of travel;
a.2. Bidirectional slide positioning repeatability less (better) than 0.00025 mm per 300 mm of travel;
a.3. Spindle “run out” and “camming” less (better) than 0.0004 mm total indicator reading (TIR);
a.4. Angular deviation of the slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than 2 seconds of arc, TIR, over full travel;
and
a.5. Slide perpendicularity less (better) than 0.001 mm per 300 mm of travel;
Technical Note:
The bidirectional slide positioning repeatability (R) of an axis is the maximum value of the repeatability of positioning at any position along or around the axis determined using the procedure and under the conditions specified in part 2.11 of ISO 230/2: 1988.
b. Fly cutting machines having all of the following characteristics:
b.1. Spindle “run out” and “camming” less (better) than 0.0004 mm TIR;
and
b.2. Angular deviation of slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than 2 seconds of arc, TIR, over full travel.
2B993 Gearmaking and/or finishing machinery not controlled by 2B003 capable of producing gears to a quality level of better than AGMA 11.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2B996 Dimensional inspection or measuring systems or equipment not controlled by 2B006 or 2B206, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Manual dimensional inspection machines, having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. Two or more axes;
and
a.2. A measurement uncertainty equal to or less (better) than (3 + L/300) micrometer in any axes (L measured length in mm).
2B997 “Robots” not controlled by 2B007 or 2B207 that are capable of employing feedback information in real-time processing from one or more sensors to generate or modify “programs” or to generate or modify numerical program data.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2B998 Assemblies, circuit boards or inserts “specially designed” for machine tools controlled by 2B991, or for equipment controlled by 2B993, 2B996 or 2B997.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
This entry does not control measuring interferometer systems, without closed or open loop feedback, containing a laser to measure slide movement errors of machine-tools, dimensional inspection machines or similar equipment.
Related Definition:
N/A
Items:
a. Spindle assemblies, consisting of spindles and bearings as a minimal assembly, with radial (“run out”) or axial (“camming”) axis motion in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0.0006 mm total indicator reading (TIR);
b. Single point diamond cutting tool inserts, having all of the following characteristics:
b.1. Flawless and chip-free cutting edge when magnified 400 times in any direction;
b.2. Cutting radius from 0.1 to 5 mm inclusive;
and
b.3. Cutting radius out-of-roundness less (better) than 0.002 mm TIR.
c. “Specially designed” printed circuit boards with mounted “parts” or “components” capable of upgrading, according to the manufacturer's specifications, “numerical control” units, machine tools or feed-back devices to or above the levels specified in ECCNs 2B991, 2B993, 2B996, 2B997, or 2B998.
2B999 Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s., as Follows (See List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry except 2B999.h.2
A license is required for items controlled by this entry, other than 2B999.h.2, for export or reexport to Pakistan or transfer within Pakistan for regional stability reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS license requirements for this entry. See § 742.6(a)(12) of the EAR for additional information.
AT applies to entire entry
A license is required for items controlled by this entry to North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine AT licensing requirements for this entry. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See also 1B233, 2A992, 2A993, 2B001.f, 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B109, 2B204, 2B209, 2B228, 2B229, 2B231, and 2B350. (2) Certain nuclear related processing equipment is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see
10 CFR part 110
).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Isostatic presses, n.e.s.
b. Bellows manufacturing equipment, including hydraulic forming equipment and bellows forming dies.
c. Laser welding machines.
d. MIG welders.
e. E-beam welders.
f. Monel equipment, including valves, piping, tanks and vessels.
g. 304 and 316 stainless steel valves, piping, tanks and vessels.
Note:
Fittings are considered part of “piping” for purposes of 2B999.g.
h. Mining and drilling equipment, as follows:
h.1. Large boring equipment capable of drilling holes greater than two feet in diameter.
h.2. Large earth-moving equipment used in the mining industry.
i. Electroplating equipment designed for coating parts with nickel or aluminum.
j. Pumps designed for industrial service and for use with an electrical motor of 5 HP or greater.
k. Vacuum valves, piping, flanges, gaskets and related equipment “specially designed” for use in high-vacuum service, n.e.s.
l. Spin forming and flow forming machines, n.e.s.
m. Centrifugal multiplane balancing machines, n.e.s.
n. Austenitic stainless-steel plate, valves, piping, tanks and vessels.

# C. “Materials” [Reserved]

# D. “Software”
2D001 “Software”, other than that controlled by 2D002, as follows (See list of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1
MT applies to “software” for equipment controlled by 2B004 and 2B009 for MT reasons
MT Column 1
NP applies to “specially designed” or modified “software” for equipment controlled by 2B001 for NP reasons, and to “specially designed” “software” for equipment controlled by 2B004, 2B006, 2B007, or 2B009 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except N/A for MT
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit “software”, other than that specified by ECCN 2D002, “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of equipment as follows: ECCN 2B001 entire entry; or “Numerically controlled” or manual machine tools as specified in 2B003 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”) and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry. (2)
Also see
ECCNs 2D101 and 2D201.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by 2A001 or 2B001 to 2B009;
b. “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “use” of equipment specified by 2A001.c., 2B001, or 2B003 to 2B009.
Note:
2D001 does not apply to part programming “software” that generates “numerical control” codes for machining various parts.
2D002 “Software” for electronic devices, even when residing in an electronic device or system, enabling such devices or systems to function as a “numerical control” unit, capable of coordinating simultaneously more than 4 axes for “contouring control”.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
Yes
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”) and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 2D202.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
Note 1:
2D002 does not control “software” “specially designed” or modified for the operation of items not specified by Category 2.
Note 2:
2D002 does not control “software” for items specified by 2B002. See 2D001 and 2D003 for “software” for items specified by 2B002.
Note 3:
2D002 does not apply to “software” that is exported with, and the minimum necessary for the operation of, items not specified by Category 2.
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D003 “Software”, designed or modified for the operation of equipment specified by 2B002, that converts optical design, workpiece measurements and material removal functions into “numerical control” commands to achieve the desired workpiece form.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
Yes.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN
2E001
(“development”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D018 “Software” for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of equipment controlled by 2B018.
No software is currently controlled under this entry. See ECCNs 0D501, 0D602, and 0D606 for software formerly controlled under this entry.
2D101 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2B104, 2B105, 2B109, 2B116, 2B117, or 2B119 to 2B122.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1.
NP applies to “software” “specially designed” for the use” of items controlled by 2B104, 2B109, or 2B116 for NP reasons
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”) and 2E101 (“use”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry. (2)
Also see
ECCN 9D004.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D201 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2B204, 2B206, 2B207, 2B209, 2B227, or 2B229.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 2E001 (“development”) and 2E201 (“use”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCNs 2D002 and 2D202.
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
“Software” “specially designed” or modified for systems controlled by 2B206.b includes “software” for simultaneous measurements of wall thickness and contour.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D202 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 2B201.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
ECCN 2D202 does not control part programming “software” that generates “numerical control” command codes, but does not allow direct use of equipment for machining various parts.
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D290 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items controlled by 2A290 or 2A291.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 2E001 (“development”) for technology for “software” controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D351 Dedicated “software” for toxic gas monitors and monitoring systems, and their dedicated detecting “parts” and “components,” controlled by ECCN 2B351.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
(1) For the purposes of this entry, the term “dedicated” means committed entirely to a single purpose or device. (2) See Section 772.1 of the EAR for the definitions of “software,” “program,” and “microprogram.”
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D352 “Software” designed for nucleic acid assemblers and synthesizers controlled by 2B352.j that is capable of designing and building functional genetic elements from digital sequence data.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 1E001 for “development” or “production “technology” for genetic elements controlled by ECCN 1C353.
Related Definitions:
See Section 772.1 of the EAR for the definitions of “software,” “program,” and “microprogram.”
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D910 “Software”, not specified elsewhere, “specially designed” or modified for the “development” or “production” of equipment specified in ECCN 2B910.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.4(a)(5) and (b)(10) of the EAR.
RS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.6(a)(10) and (b)(11) of the EAR.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
IEC:
Yes, see § 740.2(a)(22) and § 740.24 of the EAR.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this ECCN to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D983 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 2A983.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D984 “Software” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment controlled by 2A984.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Software” “required” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution less than 0.5 milliradian (a lower milliradian number means a more accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). (2) “Software” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution greater than 1 milliradian spatial resolution (a higher milliradian number means a less accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters is designated as EAR99. (3) See ECCNs 2A984 and 2E984 for related commodity and technology controls.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D991 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by 2B991, 2B993, or 2B996, 2B997, and 2B998.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D992 Specific “software”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(See Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. “Software” to provide “adaptive control” and having both of the following characteristics:
a.1. For “flexible manufacturing units” (FMUs) which consist at least of equipment described in b.1 and b.2 of the definition of “flexible manufacturing unit” contained in part 772 of the EAR;
and
a.2. Capable of generating or modifying, in “real-time processing”, programs or data by using the signals obtained simultaneously by means of at least two detection techniques, such as:
a.2.a. Machine vision (optical ranging);
a.2.b. Infrared imaging;
a.2.c. Acoustical imaging (acoustical ranging);
a.2.d. Tactile measurement;
a.2.e. Inertial positioning;
a.2.f. Force measurement;
and
a.2.g. Torque measurement.
Note:
2D992.a does not control “software” which only provides rescheduling of functionally identical equipment within “flexible manufacturing units” using pre-stored part programs and a pre-stored strategy for the distribution of the part programs.
b. Reserved.
2D993 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items controlled by 2A992 or 2A993.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See ECCN 2E001 (“development”) for “technology” for “software” controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2D994 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development” or “production” of
portable electric generators controlled by 2A994.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to Iran and North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for this entry. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on Iran. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information on North Korea.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

# E. “Technology”
2E001 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” of equipment or “software” controlled by 2A (except 2A983, 2A984, 2A991, or 2A994), 2B (except 2B991, 2B993, 2B996, 2B997, 2B998, or 2B999), or 2D (except 2D983, 2D984, 2D991, 2D992, or 2D994).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, CB, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2A001, 2B001 to 2B009, 2D001 or 2D002
NS Column 1.
MT applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B105, 2B109, 2B116, 2B117, 2B119 to 2B122, 2D001, or 2D101 for MT reasons
MT Column 1.
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2A225, 2A226, 2B001, 2B004, 2B006, 2B007, 2B009, 2B104, 2B109, 2B116, 2B201, 2B204, 2B206, 2B207, 2B209, 2B225 to 2B233, 2D001, 2D002, 2D101, 2D201, or 2D202 for NP reasons
NP Column 1.
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2A290, 2A291, or 2D290 for NP reasons
NP Column 2.
CB applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2B350 to 2B352, valves controlled by 2A226 having the characteristics of those controlled by 2B350.g, and software controlled by 2D351 or 2D352
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except N/A for MT
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit “technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” of “software” specified in the License Exception STA paragraph in the License Exception section of ECCN 2D001 or for the “development” of equipment as follows: ECCN 2B001 entire entry; or “Numerically controlled” or manual machine tools as specified in 2B003 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also 2E101, 2E201, and 2E301
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
Note 1 to 2E001:
ECCN 2E001 includes “technology” for the integration of probe systems into coordinate measurement machines specified by 2B006.a.
2E002 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “production” of equipment controlled by 2A (except 2A983, 2A984, 2A991, or 2A994), or 2B (except 2B991, 2B993, 2B996, 2B997, 2B998, or 2B999).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, NP, CB, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2A001, 2B001 to 2B009
NS Column 1
MT applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B105, 2B109, 2B116, 2B117, or 2B119 to 2B122 for MT reasons
MT Column 1
NP applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2A225, 2A226, 2B001, 2B004, 2B006, 2B007, 2B009, 2B104, 2B109, 2B116, 2B201, 2B204, 2B206, 2B207, 2B209, 2B225 to 2B233 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
NP applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2A290 or 2A291 for NP reasons
NP Column 2
CB applies to “technology” for equipment Controlled by 2B350 to 2B352 and for valves controlled by 2A226 having the characteristics of those controlled by 2B350.g
CB Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except N/A for MT
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship or transmit “technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “production” of equipment as follows: ECCN 2B001 entire entry; or “Numerically controlled” or manual machine tools as specified in 2B003 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E003 Other “technology”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
Yes, except 2E003.b, .e and .f
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See 2E001, 2E002, and 2E101 for “development” and “use” technology for equipment that are designed or modified for densification of carbon-carbon composites, structural composite rocket nozzles and reentry vehicle nose tips. (2) See 2E903 for “technology”, not specified elsewhere, for the “development” or “production” of coating systems (as defined in 2E903).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. “Technology” for metal-working manufacturing processes, as follows:
b.1. “Technology” for the design of tools, dies or fixtures “specially designed” for any of the following processes:
b.1.a. “Superplastic forming”;
b.1.b. “Diffusion bonding”;
or
b.1.c. 'Direct-acting hydraulic pressing';
b.2. [Reserved]
N.B.:
For “technology” for metal-working manufacturing processes for gas turbine engines and components, see 9E003 and USML Category XIX.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2E003.b.1.c, 'direct-acting hydraulic pressing' is a deformation process which uses a fluid-filled flexible bladder in direct contact with the workpiece.
c. “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of hydraulic stretch-forming machines and dies therefor, for the manufacture of airframe structures;
d. [Reserved]
e. “Technology” for the “development” of integration “software” for incorporation of expert systems for advanced decision support of shop floor operations into “numerical control” units;
f. “Technology” for the application of inorganic overlay coatings or inorganic surface modification coatings (specified in column 3 of the following table) to non-electronic substrates (specified in column 2 of the following table), by processes specified in column 1 of the following table and defined in the Technical Note.
Category 2E—Materials Processing Table; Deposition Techniques
1. Coating process (1)
1
2. Substrate
3. Resultant coating
A. Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)
“Superalloys”
Aluminides for internal passages
Ceramics (19) and Low-expansion glasses (14)
Silicides Carbides
Dielectric layers (15) Diamond Diamond-like carbon (17)
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic, and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Silicides
Carbides
Refractory metals,
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Aluminides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Boron nitride
Cemented tungsten carbide (16), Silicon Carbide (18)
Carbides
Tungsten Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Molybdenum and Molybdenum alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond
Diamond-like carbon (17)
Sensor window materials (9)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond
Diamond-like carbon (17)
B. Thermal Evaportation Physical Vapor
1. Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD): Deposition (TE-PVD) Electron-Beam (EB-PVD)
“Superalloys”
Alloyed silicides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
McrAlX (5)
Modified zirconia (12) Silicides
Aluminides
Mixtures thereof (4)
Ceramics (19) and Low-expansion glasses (14)
Dielectric layers (15)
Corrosion resistant steel (7)
MCrAIX (5)
Modified zirconia (12)
Mixtures thereof (4)
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Silicides
Carbides
Refractory metals
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Boron nitride
Cemented tungsten carbide (16), Silicon carbide (18)
Carbides
Tungsten
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Molybdenum and Molybdenum alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Borides
Beryllium
Sensor window materials (9)
Dielectric layers (15)
Titanium alloys (13)
Borides
Nitrides
2. Ion assisted resistive heating. Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) (Ion Plating)
Ceramics (19) and Low-expansion glasses (14)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon (17)
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Dielectric layers (15)
Cemented tungsten carbide (16), Silicon carbide
Dielectric layers (15)
Molybdenum and Molybdenum alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Sensor window materials (9)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon (17)
3. Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD): “Laser” Vaporization
Ceramics (19) and Low-expansion glasses (14)
Silicides
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon (17)
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Dielectric layers (15)
Cemented tungsten carbide (16), Silicon carbide
Dielectric layers (15)
Molybdenum and Molybdenum alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Sensor window materials (9)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon
4. Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD): Cathodic Arc Discharge
“Superalloys”
Alloyed silicides
Alloyed Aluminides (2)
MCrAlX (5)
Polymers (11) and Organic “matrix” “composites”
Borides
Carbides
Nitrides
Diamond-like carbon (17)
C. Pack cementation (see A above for out-of-pack cementation) (10)
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Silicides
Carbides
Mixtures thereof (4)
Titanium alloys (13)
Silicides
Aluminides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Refractory metals and alloys (8)
Silicides
Oxides
D. Plasma spraying
“Superalloys”
MCrAlX (5)
Modified zirconia (12)
Mixtures thereof (4)
Abradable Nickel-Graphite
Abradable materials containing Ni-Cr-Al
Abradable
Al-Si-Polyester
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Aluminum alloys (6)
MCrAIX (5)
Modified zirconia (12)
Silicides
Mixtures thereof (4)
Refractory metals and alloys (8), Carbides, Corrosion resistant steel (7)
Aluminides
Silicides
MCrAIX (5)
Modified zirconia (12)
Mixtures thereof (4)
Titanium alloys (13)
Carbides
Aluminides
Silicides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Abradable, Nickel-Graphite
Abradable materials containing Ni-Cr-Al
Abradable Al-Si-Polyester
E. Slurry Deposition
Refractory metals and alloys (8)
Fused silicides
Fused aluminides except for resistance heating elements
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “composites”
Silicides
Carbides
Mixtures thereof (4)
F. Sputter Deposition
“Superalloys”
Alloyed silicides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Noble metal modified aluminides (3)
McrAlX (5)
Modified zirconia (12)
Platinum Mixtures thereof (4)
Ceramics and Low-expansion glasses (14)
Silicides
Platinum
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon (17)
Titanium alloys (13)
Borides
Nitrides
Oxides
Silicides
Aluminides
Alloyed aluminides (2)
Carbides
Carbon-carbon, Ceramic and Metal “matrix” “Composites”
Silicides
Carbides
Refractory metals
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Boron nitride
Cemented tungsten carbide (16), Silicon carbide (18)
Carbides
Tungsten
Mixtures thereof (4)
Dielectric layers (15)
Boron nitride
Molybdenum and Molybdenum alloys
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Borides
Dielectric layers (15)
Beryllium
Sensor window materials (9)
Dielectric layers (15)
Diamond-like carbon (17)
Refractory metals and alloys (8)
Aluminides
Silicides
Oxides
Carbides
G. Ion Implantation
High temperature bearing steels
Additions of Chromium, Tantalum, or Niobium (Columbium)
Titanium alloys (13)
Borides
Nitrides
Beryllium and Beryllium alloys
Borides
Cemented tungsten carbide (16)
Carbides
Nitrides
1
The numbers in parenthesis refer to the Notes following this Table.
Notes to Table on Deposition Techniques
1. The term 'coating process' includes coating repair and refurbishing as well as original coating.
2. The term 'alloyed aluminide coating' includes single or multiple-step coatings in which an element or elements are deposited prior to or during application of the aluminide coating, even if these elements are deposited by another coating process. It does not, however, include the multiple use of single-step pack cementation processes to achieve alloyed aluminides.
3. The term 'noble metal modified aluminide' coating includes multiple-step coatings in which the noble metal or noble metals are laid down by some other coating process prior to application of the aluminide coating.
4. The term 'mixtures thereof' includes infiltrated material, graded compositions, co-deposits and multilayer deposits and are obtained by one or more of the coating processes specified in the Table.
5. MCrAlX refers to a coating alloy where M equals cobalt, iron, nickel or combinations thereof and X equals hafnium, yttrium, silicon, tantalum in any amount or other intentional additions over 0.01% by weight in various proportions and combinations, except:
a. CoCrAlY coatings which contain less than 22% by weight of chromium, less than 7% by weight of aluminum and less than 2% by weight of yttrium;
b. CoCrAlY coatings which contain 22 to 24% by weight of chromium, 10 to 12% by weight of aluminum and 0.5 to 0.7% by weight of yttrium; or
c. NiCrAlY coatings which contain 21 to 23% by weight of chromium, 10 to 12% by weight of aluminum and 0.9 to 1.1% by weight of yttrium.
6. The term 'aluminum alloys' refers to alloys having an ultimate tensile strength of 190 MPa or more measured at 293 K (20 °C).
7. The term 'corrosion resistant steel' refers to AISI (American Iron and Steel Institute) 300 series or equivalent national standard steels.
8. 'Refractory metals and alloys' include the following metals and their alloys: niobium (columbium), molybdenum, tungsten and tantalum.
9. 'Sensor window materials', as follows: alumina, silicon, germanium, zinc sulfide, zinc selenide, gallium arsenide, diamond, gallium phosphide, sapphire and the following metal halides: sensor window materials of more than 40 mm diameter for zirconium fluoride and hafnium fluoride.
10. Category 2 does not include “technology” for single-step pack cementation of solid airfoils.
11. 'Polymers', as follows: Polyimide, polyester, polysulfide, polycarbonates and polyurethanes.
12. 'Modified zirconia' refers to additions of other metal oxides, (e.g., calcia, magnesia, yttria, hafnia, rare earth oxides) to zirconia in order to stabilize certain crystallographic phases and phase compositions. Thermal barrier coatings made of zirconia, modified with calcia or magnesia by mixing or fusion, are not controlled.
13. 'Titanium alloys' refers only to aerospace alloys having an ultimate tensile strength of 900 MPa or more measured at 293 K (20 °C).
14. 'Low-expansion glasses' refers to glasses which have a coefficient of thermal expansion of 1 × 10
−7
K
−1
or less measured at 293 K (20 °C).
15. 'Dielectric layers' are coatings constructed of multi-layers of insulator materials in which the interference properties of a design composed of materials of various refractive indices are used to reflect, transmit or absorb various wavelength bands. Dielectric layers refers to more than four dielectric layers or dielectric/metal “composite” layers.
16. 'Cemented tungsten carbide' does not include cutting and forming tool materials consisting of tungsten carbide/(cobalt, nickel), titanium carbide/(cobalt, nickel), chromium carbide/nickel-chromium and chromium carbide/nickel.
17. “Technology” for depositing diamond-like carbon on any of the following is not controlled:
magnetic disk drives and heads, equipment for the manufacture of disposables, valves for faucets, acoustic diaphragms for speakers, engine parts for automobiles, cutting tools, punching-pressing dies, office automation equipment, microphones, medical devices or molds, for casting or molding of plastics, manufactured from alloys containing less than 5% beryllium.
18. 'Silicon carbide' does not include cutting and forming tool materials.
19. Ceramic substrates, as used in this entry, does not include ceramic materials containing 5% by weight, or greater, clay or cement content, either as separate constituents or in combination.
Technical Note to Table on Deposition Techniques:
Processes specified in Column 1 of the Table are defined as follows:
a. Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) is an overlay coating or surface modification coating process wherein a metal, alloy, “composite”, dielectric or ceramic is deposited upon a heated substrate. Gaseous reactants are decomposed or combined in the vicinity of a substrate resulting in the deposition of the desired elemental, alloy or compound material on the substrate. Energy for this decomposition or chemical reaction process may be provided by the heat of the substrate, a glow discharge plasma, or “laser” irradiation.
Note 1: CVD includes the following processes: Directed gas flow out-of-pack deposition, pulsating CVD, controlled nucleation thermal decomposition (CNTD), plasma enhanced or plasma assisted CVD processes
.
Note 2: Pack denotes a substrate immersed in a powder mixture.
Note 3: The gaseous reactants used in the out-of-pack process are produced using the same basic reactions and parameters as the pack cementation process, except that the substrate to be coated is not in contact with the powder mixture.
b. Thermal Evaporation-Physical Vapor Deposition (TE-PVD) is an overlay coating process conducted in a vacuum with a pressure less than 0.1 Pa wherein a source of thermal energy is used to vaporize the coating material. This process results in the condensation, or deposition, of the evaporated species onto appropriately positioned substrates. The addition of gases to the vacuum chamber during the coating process to synthesize compound coatings is an ordinary modification of the process. The use of ion or electron beams, or plasma, to activate or assist the coating's deposition is also a common modification in this technique. The use of monitors to provide in-process measurement of optical characteristics and thickness of coatings can be a feature of these processes. Specific TE-PVD processes are as follows:
1. Electron Beam PVD uses an electron beam to heat and evaporate the material which forms the coating;
2. Ion Assisted Resistive Heating PVD employs electrically resistive heating sources in combination with impinging ion beam(s) to produce a controlled and uniform flux of evaporated coating species;
3. “Laser” Vaporization uses either pulsed or continuous wave “laser” beams to vaporize the material which forms the coating;
4. Cathodic Arc Deposition employs a consumable cathode of the material which forms the coating and has an arc discharge established on the surface by a momentary contact of a ground trigger. Controlled motion of arcing erodes the cathode surface creating a highly ionized plasma. The anode can be either a cone attached to the periphery of the cathode, through an insulator, or the chamber. Substrate biasing is used for non line-of-sight deposition;
Note: This definition does not include random cathodic arc deposition with non-biased substrates.
5. Ion Plating is a special modification of a general TE-PVD process in which a plasma or an ion source is used to ionize the species to be deposited, and a negative bias is applied to the substrate in order to facilitate the extraction of the species from the plasma. The introduction of reactive species, evaporation of solids within the process chamber, and the use of monitors to provide in-process measurement of optical characteristics and thicknesses of coatings are ordinary modifications of the process.
c. Pack Cementation is a surface modification coating or overlay coating process wherein a substrate is immersed in a powder mixture (a pack), that consists of:
1. The metallic powders that are to be deposited (usually aluminum, chromium, silicon or combinations thereof);
2. An activator (normally a halide salt); and
3. An inert powder, most frequently alumina.
Note: The substrate and powder mixture is contained within a retort which is heated to between 1,030 K (757 °C) to 1,375 K (1,102 °C) for sufficient time to deposit the coating
.
d. Plasma Spraying is an overlay coating process wherein a gun (spray torch) which produces and controls a plasma accepts powder or wire coating materials, melts them and propels them towards a substrate, whereon an integrally bonded coating is formed. Plasma spraying constitutes either low pressure plasma spraying or high velocity plasma spraying.
Note 1: Low pressure means less than ambient atmospheric pressure.
Note 2: High velocity refers to nozzle-exit gas velocity exceeding 750 m/s calculated at 293 K (20 °C) at 0.1 MPa.
e. Slurry Deposition is a surface modification coating or overlay coating process wherein a metallic or ceramic powder with an organic binder is suspended in a liquid and is applied to a substrate by either spraying, dipping or painting, subsequent air or oven drying, and heat treatment to obtain the desired coating.
f. Sputter Deposition is an overlay coating process based on a momentum transfer phenomenon, wherein positive ions are accelerated by an electric field towards the surface of a target (coating material). The kinetic energy of the
impacting ions is sufficient to cause target surface atoms to be released and deposited on an appropriately positioned substrate.
Note 1: The Table refers only to triode, magnetron or reactive sputter deposition which is used to increase adhesion of the coating and rate of deposition and to radio frequency (RF) augmented sputter deposition used to permit vaporization of non-metallic coating materials.
Note 2: Low-energy ion beams (less than 5 keV) can be used to activate the deposition.
g. Ion Implantation is a surface modification coating process in which the element to be alloyed is ionized, accelerated through a potential gradient and implanted into the surface region of the substrate. This includes processes in which ion implantation is performed simultaneously with electron beam physical vapor deposition or sputter deposition.
Accompanying Technical Information to Table on Deposition Techniques:
1. Technical information for pretreatments of the substrates listed in the Table, as follows:
a. Chemical stripping and cleaning bath cycle parameters, as follows:
1. Bath composition;
a. For the removal of old or defective coatings corrosion product or foreign deposits;
b. For preparation of virgin substrates;
2. Time in bath;
3. Temperature of bath;
4. Number and sequences of wash cycles;
b. Visual and macroscopic criteria for acceptance of the cleaned part;
c. Heat treatment cycle parameters, as follows:
1. Atmosphere parameters, as follows:
a. Composition of the atmosphere;
b. Pressure of the atmosphere;
2. Temperature for heat treatment;
3. Time of heat treatment;
d. Substrate surface preparation parameters, as follows:
1. Grit blasting parameters, as follows:
a. Grit composition;
b. Grit size and shape;
c. Grit velocity;
2. Time and sequence of cleaning cycle after grit blast;
3. Surface finish parameters;
4. Application of binders to promote adhesion;
e. Masking technique parameters, as follows:
1. Material of mask;
2. Location of mask;
2. Technical information for in situ quality assurance techniques for evaluation of the coating processes listed in the Table, as follows:
a. Atmosphere parameters, as follows:
1. Composition of the atmosphere;
2. Pressure of the atmosphere;
b. Time parameters;
c. Temperature parameters;
d. Thickness parameters;
e. Index of refraction parameters;
f. Control of composition;
3. Technical information for post deposition treatments of the coated substrates listed in the Table, as follows:
a. Shot peening parameters, as follows:
1. Shot composition;
2. Shot size;
3. Shot velocity;
b. Post shot peening cleaning parameters;
c. Heat treatment cycle parameters, as follows:
1. Atmosphere parameters, as follows:
a. Composition of the atmosphere;
b. Pressure of the atmosphere;
2. Time-temperature cycles;
d. Post heat treatment visual and macroscopic criteria for acceptance of the coated substrates;
4. Technical information for quality assurance techniques for the evaluation of the coated substrates listed in the Table, as follows:
a. Statistical sampling criteria;
b. Microscopic criteria for:
1. Magnification;
2. Coating thickness, uniformity;
3. Coating integrity;
4. Coating composition;
5. Coating and substrates bonding;
6. Microstructural uniformity.
c. Criteria for optical properties assessment (measured as a function of wavelength):
1. Reflectance;
2. Transmission;
3. Absorption;
4. Scatter;
5. Technical information and parameters related to specific coating and surface modification processes listed in the Table, as follows:
a. For Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD):
1. Coating source composition and formulation;
2. Carrier gas composition;
3. Substrate temperature;
4. Time-temperature-pressure cycles;
5. Gas control and part manipulation;
b. For Thermal Evaporation-Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD):
1. Ingot or coating material source composition;
2. Substrate temperature;
3. Reactive gas composition;
4. Ingot feed rate or material vaporization rate;
5. Time-temperature-pressure cycles;
6. Beam and part manipulation;
7. “Laser” parameters, as follows:
a. Wave length;
b. Power density;
c. Pulse length;
d. Repetition ratio;
e. Source;
c. For Pack Cementation:
1. Pack composition and formulation;
2. Carrier gas composition;
3. Time-temperature-pressure cycles;
d. For Plasma Spraying:
1. Powder composition, preparation and size distributions;
2. Feed gas composition and parameters;
3. Substrate temperature;
4. Gun power parameters;
5. Spray distance;
6. Spray angle;
7. Cover gas composition, pressure and flow rates;
8. Gun control and part manipulation;
e. For Sputter Deposition:
1. Target composition and fabrication;
2. Geometrical positioning of part and target;
3. Reactive gas composition;
4. Electrical bias;
5. Time-temperature-pressure cycles;
6. Triode power;
7. Part manipulation;
f. For Ion Implantation:
1. Beam control and part manipulation;
2. Ion source design details;
3. Control techniques for ion beam and deposition rate parameters;
4. Time-temperature-pressure cycles.
g. For Ion Plating:
1. Beam control and part manipulation;
2. Ion source design details;
3. Control techniques for ion beam and deposition rate parameters;
4. Time-temperature-pressure cycles;
5. Coating material feed rate and vaporization rate;
6. Substrate temperature;
7. Substrate bias parameters.
2E018 “Technology” for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2B018.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT, UN
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 1.
MT applies to “technology” for equipment controlled by 2B018 for MT reasons
MT Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
UN applies to entire entry.
See § 746.1(b) for UN controls.
TSR:
Yes.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E101 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of equipment or “software” controlled by 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B105, 2B109, 2B116, 2B117, 2B119 to 2B122, 2D001, 2D002 or 2D101.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B105, 2B109, 2B116, 2B117, 2B119 to 2B122, 2D001, or 2D101 for MT reasons
MT Column 1
NP applies to “technology” for items controlled by 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B109, 2B116, 2D001, 2D002 or 2D101 for NP reasons
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry.
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) This entry controls only “technology” for 2B009 and 2B109 for spin forming machines combining the functions of spin forming and flow forming, and flow forming machines. (2) Also see 2E201.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E201 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of equipment or “software” controlled by 2A225, 2A226, 2B001, 2B006, 2B007.b, 2B007.c, 2B201, 2B204, 2B206, 2B207, 2B209, 2B225 to 2B233, 2D002, 2D201 or 2D202 for NP reasons.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
CB applies to “technology” for valves controlled by 2A226 that meet or exceed the technical parameters in 2B350.g
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
Also see 2E290 and 2E991.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E290 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2A290 or 2A291.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E301 “Technology” according to the “General Technology Note” for the “use” of items controlled by 2B350, 2B351 and 2B352.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
CB, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
CB applies to entire entry
CB Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The lists of items controlled are contained in the ECCN headings.
2E903 “Technology”, not specified elsewhere, for the “development” or “production” of `coating systems' having all of the following: (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.4(a)(5) and (b)(10) of the EAR.
RS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.6(a)(10) and (b)(11) of the EAR.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
IEC:
Yes, see § 740.2(a)(22) and § 740.24 of the EAR.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this ECCN to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Designed to protect ceramic “matrix” “composite” materials specified by ECCN 1C007 from corrosion;
and
b. Designed to operate at temperatures exceeding 1,373.15 K (1,100 °C).
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 2E903, 'coating systems' consist of one or more layers (e.g., bond, interlayer, top coat) of material deposited on the substrate.
2E910 “Technology”, not specified elsewhere, “specially designed” or modified for the “development” or “production” of equipment specified in ECCN 2B910.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.4(a)(5) and (b)(10) of the EAR.
RS applies to entire entry
Worldwide control.
See § 742.6(a)(10) and (b)(11) of the EAR.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
IEC:
Yes, see § 740.2(a)(22) and § 740.24 of the EAR.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in this ECCN to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See Supplement No.1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E983 “Technology” “specially designed” or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 2A983, or the “development” of software controlled by 2D983.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E984 “Technology” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of
equipment controlled by 2A984 or “required” for the “development” of “software” controlled by 2D984.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry
RS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution less than 0.5 milliradian (a lower milliradian number means a more accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters or “required” for the “development” of “software” “required” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution less than 0.5 milliradian at a standoff distance of 100 meters is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). (2) “Technology” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution greater than 1 milliradian spatial resolution (a higher milliradian number means a less accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters or “required” for the “development” of “software” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz and having a spatial resolution greater than 1 milliradian spatial resolution (a higher milliradian number means a less accurate image resolution) at a standoff distance of 100 meters is designated as EAR99. (3) See ECCNs 2A984 and 2D984 for related commodity and software controls.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E991 “Technology” for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2B991, 2B993, 2B996, or 2B997.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E993 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of equipment controlled by 2A992 or 2A993.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. no. 1 to part 738)
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
2E994 “Technology” for the “use” of portable electric generators controlled by 2A994.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT
Control(s):
AT applies to entire entry. A license is required for items controlled by this entry to Iran and North Korea for anti-terrorism reasons. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for this entry. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on Iran. See § 742.19 of the EAR for additional information on North Korea.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
TSR:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
EAR99 Items Subject to the EAR That Are
Not
Elsewhere Specified in This CCL Category
or
in Any Other Category in the CCL Are Designated by the Number EAR99.

# Category 3—Electronics

# A. “End Items,” “Equipment,”“Accessories,” “Attachments,” “Parts,” “Components,” and “Systems”
Note 1:
The control status of equipment and “components” described in 3A001(other than those described in 3A001.a.3 to 3A001.a.10, 3A001.a.12 to 3A001.a.14, 3A001.b.12, or 3A001.z), 3A002, 3A901, which are “specially designed” for or which have the same functional characteristics as other equipment is determined by the control status of the other equipment.
Note 2:
The control status of integrated circuits described in 3A001.a.3 to 3A001.a.9, 3A001.a.12 to 3A001.a.14, 3A001.z or 3A901 that are unalterably programmed or designed for a specific function for other equipment is determined by the control status of the other equipment.
N.B.:
When the manufacturer or applicant cannot determine the control status of the other equipment, the control status of the integrated circuits is determined in 3A001.a.3 to 3A001.a.9, or 3A001.a.12 to 3A001.a.14, 3A001.z and 3A901.
Note 3:
The status of wafers (finished or unfinished), in which the function has been determined, is to be evaluated against the parameters of items in 3A.
3A001 Electronic items as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
Reason for Control:
NS, RS, MT, NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NS applies to “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) amplifiers in 3A001.b.2 and discrete microwave transistors in 3A001.b.3, except those 3A001.b.2 and b.3 items being exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications; and 3A001.z.1
NS Column 1.
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
RS applies “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) amplifiers in 3A001.b.2 and discrete microwave transistors in 3A001.b.3, except those 3A001.b.2 and b.3 items being exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications; and 3A001.z.1
RS Column 1.
RS applies to 3A001.z
To or within destinations specified in Country Groups D:1, D:4, and D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6.
See
§ 742.6(a)(6)(iii) of the EAR.
MT applies to 3A001.a.1.a when usable in “missiles”; and to 3A001.a.5.a when “designed or modified” for military use, hermetically sealed and rated for operation in the temperature range from below −54 °C to above +125 °C; and 3A001.z.2
MT Column 1.
NP applies to pulse discharge capacitors in 3A001.e.2 and superconducting solenoidal electromagnets in 3A001.e.3 that meet or exceed the technical parameters in 3A201.a and 3A201.b, respectively; and 3A001.z.3
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Reporting Requirements:
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under 3A001.b.2 or b.3 under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
License Requirements:
See § 744.17 of the EAR for additional license requirements for microprocessors having a processing speed of 5 GFLOPS or more and an arithmetic logic unit with an access width of 32 bit or more, including those incorporating “information security” functionality, and associated “software” and “technology” for the “production” or “development” of such microprocessors.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A for MT, NP; N/A for “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) amplifiers in 3A001.b.2, discrete microwave transistors in 3A001.b.3, and 3A001.z.1, except those that are being exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications.
Yes for:
$1500: 3A001.c.
$3000: 3A001.b.1, b.2 (exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications), b.3 (exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications), b.9, .d, .e, .f, .g, and z.1 (exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications).
$5000: 3A001.a (except a.1.a and a.5.a when controlled for MT), b.4 to b.7, and b.12.
GBS:
Yes for 3A001.a.1.b, a.2 to a.14 (except .a.5.a when controlled for MT), b.2 (exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications), b.8 (except for “vacuum electronic devices” exceeding 18 GHz), b.9., b.10, .g, .h, .i, and z.1 (exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications).
NAC/ACA:
Yes, for 3A001.z.
Note:
See § 740.2(a)(9)(ii) of the EAR for license exception restrictions for ECCN 3A001.z.
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in 3A001.b.2 or b.3, except those that are being exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications, to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See Category XV of the USML for certain “space-qualified” electronics and Category XI of the USML for certain ASICs, 'transmit/receive modules,' 'transmit modules,' or 'MMICs' “subject to the ITAR.” (2) See also 3A090, 3A101, 3A201, 3A611, 3A901 for cryogenic CMOS integrated circuits and parametric signal amplifiers or quantum limited amplifiers not controlled by 3A001, 3A991, and 9A515.
Related Definitions:
'Microcircuit' means a device in which a number of passive or active elements are considered as indivisibly associated on or within a continuous structure to perform the function of a circuit. For the purposes of integrated circuits in 3A001.a.1, 5 × 10
3
Gy(Si) = 5 × 10
5
Rads (Si); 5 × 10
6
Gy (Si)/s = 5 × 10
8
Rads (Si)/s.
Items:
a. General purpose integrated circuits, as follows:
Note 1:
Integrated circuits include the following types:
—
“Monolithic integrated circuits”;
—
“Hybrid integrated circuits”;
—
“Multichip integrated circuits”;
—
“Film type integrated circuits”, including silicon-on-sapphire integrated circuits;
—
“Optical integrated circuits”;
—
“Three dimensional integrated circuits”;
—
“Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits” (“MMICs”).
a.1. Integrated circuits designed or rated as radiation hardened to withstand any of the following:
a.1.a. A total dose of 5 × 10
3
Gy (Si), or higher;
a.1.b. A dose rate upset of 5 × 10
6
Gy (Si)/s, or higher;
or
a.1.c. A fluence (integrated flux) of neutrons (1 MeV equivalent) of 5 × 10
13
n/cm
2
or higher on silicon, or its equivalent for other materials;
Note:
3A001.a.1.c does not apply to Metal Insulator Semiconductors (MIS).
a.2. “Microprocessor microcircuits,” “microcomputer microcircuits,” microcontroller microcircuits, storage integrated circuits manufactured from a compound semiconductor, analog-to-digital converters, integrated circuits that contain analog-to-digital converters and store or process the digitized data, digital-to-analog converters, electro-optical or “optical integrated circuits” designed for “signal processing”, field programmable logic devices, custom integrated circuits for which either the function is unknown or the control status of the equipment in which the integrated circuit will be used in unknown, Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) processors, Static Random-Access Memories (SRAMs), or 'non-volatile memories,' having any of the following:
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.2, 'non-volatile memories' are memories with data retention over a period of time after a power shutdown.
a.2.a. Rated for operation at an ambient temperature above 398 K (+125 °C);
a.2.b. Rated for operation at an ambient temperature below 218 K (−55 °C);
or
a.2.c. Rated for operation over the entire ambient temperature range from 218 K (−55 °C) to 398 K (+125 °C);
N.B.:
For cryogenic CMOS integrated circuits not specified by 3A001.a.2, see 3A901.a
.
Note:
3A001.a.2 does not apply to integrated circuits designed for civil automobile or railway train applications.
a.3. “Microprocessor microcircuits”, “microcomputer microcircuits” and microcontroller microcircuits, manufactured from a compound semiconductor and operating at a clock frequency exceeding 40 MHz;
Note:
3A001.a.3 includes digital signal processors, digital array processors and digital coprocessors.
a.4. [Reserved]
a.5. Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC) and Digital-to-Analog Converter (DAC) integrated circuits, as follows:
a.5.a. ADCs having any of the following:
a.5.a.1. A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);
a.5.a.2. A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 600 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS);
a.5.a.3. A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 400 MSPS;
a.5.a.4. A resolution of 14 bit or more, but less than 16 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 250 MSPS;
or
a.5.a.5. A resolution of 16 bit or more with a “sample rate” greater than 65 MSPS;
N.B.:
For integrated circuits that contain analog-to-digital converters and store or process the digitized data see 3A001.a.14.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.5.a:
1. A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantization of 2
n
levels.
2. The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output that represents the measured analog input. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is not used to determine the resolution of the ADC.
3. For “multiple channel ADCs”, the “sample rate” is not aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum rate of any single channel.
4. For “interleaved ADCs” or for “multiple channel ADCs” that are specified to have an interleaved mode of operation, the “sample rates” are aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum combined total rate of all of the interleaved channels.
a.5.b. Digital-to-Analog Converters (DAC) having any of the following:
a.5.b.1. A resolution of 10-bit or more but less than 12-bit, with an 'adjusted update rate' of exceeding 3,500 MSPS;
or
a.5.b.2. A resolution of 12-bit or more and having any of the following:
a.5.b.2.a. An 'adjusted update rate' exceeding 1,250 MSPS but not exceeding 3,500 MSPS, and having any of the following:
a.5.b.2.a.1. A settling time less than 9 ns to arrive at or within 0.024% of full scale from a full scale step;
or
a.5.b.2.a.2. A 'Spurious Free Dynamic Range' (SFDR) greater than 68 dBc (carrier) when synthesizing a full scale analog signal of 100 MHz or the highest full scale analog signal frequency specified below 100 MHz;
or
a.5.b.2.b. An 'adjusted update rate' exceeding 3,500 MSPS;
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.5.b:
1. 'Spurious Free Dynamic Range' (SFDR) is defined as the ratio of the RMS value of the carrier frequency (maximum signal component) at the input of the DAC to the RMS value of the next largest noise or harmonic distortion component at its output.
2. SFDR is determined directly from the specification table or from the characterization plots of SFDR versus frequency.
3. A signal is defined to be full scale when its amplitude is greater than −3 dBfs (full scale).
4. 'Adjusted update rate' for DACs is:
a. For conventional (non-interpolating) DACs, the 'adjusted update rate' is the rate at which the digital signal is converted to an analog signal and the output analog values are changed by the DAC. For DACs where the interpolation mode may be bypassed (interpolation factor of one), the DAC should be considered as a conventional (non-interpolating) DAC.
b. For interpolating DACs (oversampling DACs), the 'adjusted update rate' is defined as the DAC update rate divided by the smallest interpolating factor. For interpolating DACs, the 'adjusted update rate' may be referred to by different terms including:
•
input data rate
•
input word rate
•
input sample rate
•
maximum total input bus rate
•
maximum DAC clock rate for DAC clock input
a.6. Electro-optical and “optical integrated circuits”, designed for “signal processing” and having all of the following:
a.6.a. One or more than one internal “laser” diode;
a.6.b. One or more than one internal light detecting element;
and
a.6.c. Optical waveguides;
a.7. 'Field programmable logic devices' having any of the following:
a.7.a. A maximum number of single-ended digital input/outputs of greater than 700;
or
a.7.b. An 'aggregate one-way peak serial transceiver data rate' of 500 Gb/s or greater;
Note:
3A001.a.7 includes:
—
Complex Programmable Logic Devices (CPLDs);
—
Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs);
—
Field Programmable Logic Arrays (FPLAs);
—
Field Programmable Interconnects (FPICs).
N.B.:
For integrated circuits having field programmable logic devices that are combined with an analog-to-digital converter, see 3A001.a.14.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.7:
1. Maximum number of digital input/outputs in 3A001.a.7.a is also referred to as maximum user input/outputs or maximum available input/outputs, whether the integrated circuit is packaged or bare die.
2. 'Aggregate one-way peak serial transceiver data rate' is the product of the peak serial one-way transceiver data rate times the number of transceivers on the FPGA.
a.8. [Reserved]
a.9. [Reserved];
a.10. Custom integrated circuits for which the function is unknown, or the control status of the equipment in which the integrated circuits will be used is unknown to the manufacturer, having any of the following:
a.10.a. More than 1,500 terminals;
a.10.b. A typical “basic gate propagation delay time” of less than 0.02 ns;
or
a.10.c. An operating frequency exceeding 3 GHz;
a.11. Digital integrated circuits, other than those described in 3A001.a.3 to 3A001.a.10 and 3A001.a.12, based upon any compound semiconductor and having any of the following:
a.11.a. An equivalent gate count of more than 3,000 (2 input gates);
or
a.11.b. A toggle frequency exceeding 1.2 GHz;
a.12. Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) processors having a rated execution time for an N-point complex FFT of less than (N log
2
N)/20,480 ms, where N is the number of points;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.12, when N is equal to 1,024 points, the formula in 3A001.a.12 gives an execution time of 500
m
s.
a.13. Direct Digital Synthesizer (DDS) integrated circuits having any of the following:
a.13.a. A Digital-to-Analog Converter (DAC) clock frequency of 3.5 GHz or more and a DAC resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit;
or
a.13.b. A DAC clock frequency of 1.25 GHz or more and a DAC resolution of 12 bit or more;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.13, the DAC clock frequency may be specified as the master clock frequency or the input clock frequency.
a.14. Integrated circuits that perform or are programmable to perform all of the following:
a.14.a. Analog-to-digital conversions meeting any of the following:
a.14.a.1. A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);
a.14.a.2. A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.0 GSPS;
a.14.a.3. A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.0 GSPS;
a.14.a.4. A resolution of 14 bit or more, but less than 16 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 400 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS);
or
a.14.a.5. A resolution of 16 bit or more with a “sample rate” greater than 180 MSPS;
and
a.14.b. Any of the following:
a.14.b.1. Storage of digitized data;
or
a.14.b.2. Processing of digitized data;
N.B.
1: For analog-to-digital converter integrated circuits see 3A001.a.5.a.
N.B.
2: For field programmable logic devices see 3A001.a.7.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.a.14:
1. A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantization of 2
n
levels.
2. The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output of the ADC that represents the measured analog input. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is not used to determine the resolution of the ADC.
3. For integrated circuits with non- interleaving “multiple channel ADCs”, the “sample rate” is not aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum rate of any single channel.
4. For integrated circuits with “interleaved ADCs” or with “multiple channel ADCs” that are specified to have an interleaved mode of operation, the “sample rates” are aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum combined total rate of all of the interleaved channels.
b. Microwave or millimeter wave items, as follows:
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.b, the parameter peak saturated power output may also be referred to on product data sheets as output power, saturated power output, maximum power output, peak power output, or peak envelope power output.
N.B.:
For parametric signal amplifiers or Quantum-limited amplifiers (QLAs) not specified by 3A001.b, see ECCN 3A901.b.
b.1. “Vacuum electronic devices” and cathodes, as follows:
Note 1:
3A001.b.1 does not control “vacuum electronic devices” designed or rated for operation in any frequency band and having all of the following:
a. Does not exceed 31.8 GHz; and
b. Is “allocated by the ITU” for radio-communications services, but not for radio-determination.
Note 2:
3A001.b.1 does not control non-“space-qualified” “vacuum electronic devices” having all the following:
a. An average output power equal to or less than 50 W; and
b. Designed or rated for operation in any frequency band and having all of the following:
1. Exceeds 31.8 GHz but does not exceed 43.5 GHz; and
2. Is “allocated by the ITU” for radio-communications services, but not for radio-determination.
b.1.a. Traveling-wave “vacuum electronic devices,” pulsed or continuous wave, as follows:
b.1.a.1. Devices operating at frequencies exceeding 31.8 GHz;
b.1.a.2. Devices having a cathode heater with a turn on time to rated RF power of less than 3 seconds;
b.1.a.3. Coupled cavity devices, or derivatives thereof, with a “fractional bandwidth” of more than 7% or a peak power exceeding 2.5 kW;
b.1.a.4. Devices based on helix, folded waveguide, or serpentine waveguide circuits, or derivatives thereof, having any of the following:
b.1.a.4.a. An “instantaneous bandwidth” of more than one octave, and average power (expressed in kW) times frequency (expressed in GHz) of more than 0.5;
b.1.a.4.b. An “instantaneous bandwidth” of one octave or less, and average power (expressed in kW) times frequency (expressed in GHz) of more than 1;
b.1.a.4.c. Being “space-qualified”;
or
b.1.a.4.d. Having a gridded electron gun;
b.1.a.5. Devices with a “fractional bandwidth” greater than or equal to 10%, with any of the following:
b.1.a.5.a. An annular electron beam;
b.1.a.5.b. A non-axisymmetric electron beam;
or
b.1.a.5.c. Multiple electron beams;
b.1.b. Crossed-field amplifier “vacuum electronic devices” with a gain of more than 17 dB;
b.1.c. Thermionic cathodes, designed for “vacuum electronic devices,” producing an emission current density at rated operating conditions exceeding 5 A/cm
2
or a pulsed (non-continuous) current density at rated operating conditions exceeding 10 A/cm
2
;
b.1.d. “Vacuum electronic devices” with the capability to operate in a 'dual mode.'
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.b.1.d, 'dual mode' means the “vacuum
electronic device” beam current can be intentionally changed between continuous-wave and pulsed mode operation by use of a grid and produces a peak pulse output power greater than the continuous-wave output power.
b.2. “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) amplifiers that any of the following:
N.B.:
For “MMIC” amplifiers that have an integrated phase shifter see 3A001.b.12.
b.2.a. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz with a “fractional bandwidth” greater than 15%, and having any of the following:
b.2.a.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 75 W (48.75 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 2.9 GHz;
b.2.a.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 55 W (47.4 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.9 GHz up to and including 3.2 GHz;
b.2.a.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 40 W (46 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.2 GHz up to and including 3.7 GHz;
or
b.2.a.4. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (43 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz;
b.2.b. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 16 GHz with a “fractional bandwidth” greater than 10%, and having any of the following:
b.2.b.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 10 W (40 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 8.5 GHz;
or
b.2.b.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 5 W (37 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 8.5 GHz up to and including 16 GHz;
b.2.c. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 3 W (34.77 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 10%;
b.2.d. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0.1 nW (−70 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31.8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
b.2.e. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 1 W (30 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43.5 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 10%;
b.2.f. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 31.62 mW (15 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 43.5 GHz up to and including 75 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 10%;
b.2.g. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 10 mW (10 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 75 GHz up to and including 90 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 5%;
or
b.2.h. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0.1 nW (−70 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
Note 1:
[Reserved]
Note 2:
The control status of the “MMIC” whose rated operating frequency includes frequencies listed in more than one frequency range, as defined by 3A001.b.2.a through 3A001.b.2.h, is determined by the lowest peak saturated power output control threshold.
Note 3:
Notes 1 and 2 following the Category 3 heading for product group A. Systems, Equipment, and Components mean that 3A001.b.2 does not control “MMICs” if they are “specially designed” for other applications, e.g., telecommunications, radar, automobiles.
b.3. Discrete microwave transistors that are any of the following:
b.3.a. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz and having any of the following:
b.3.a.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 400 W (56 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 2.9 GHz;
b.3.a.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 205 W (53.12 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.9 GHz up to and including 3.2 GHz;
b.3.a.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 115 W (50.61 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.2 GHz up to and including 3.7 GHz;
or
b.3.a.4. A peak saturated power output greater than 60 W (47.78 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz;
b.3.b. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz and having any of the following:
b.3.b.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 50 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 8.5 GHz;
b.3.b.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 15 W (41.76 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 8.5 GHz up to and including 12 GHz;
b.3.b.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 40 W (46 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 12 GHz up to and including 16 GHz;
or
b.3.b.4. A peak saturated power output greater than 7 W (38.45 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz;
b.3.c. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0.5 W (27 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31.8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
b.3.d. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 1 W (30 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43.5 GHz;
b.3.e. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0.1 nW (−70 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 43.5 GHz;
or
b.3.f. Other than those specified by 3A001.b.3.a to 3A001.b.3.e and rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 5 W (37.0 dBm) at all frequencies exceeding 8.5 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz;
Note 1:
The control status of a transistor in 3A001.b.3.a through 3A001.b.3.e, whose rated operating frequency includes frequencies listed in more than one frequency range, as defined by 3A001.b.3.a through 3A001.b.3.e, is determined by the lowest peak saturated power output control threshold.
Note 2:
3A001.b.3 includes bare dice, dice mounted on carriers, or dice mounted in packages. Some discrete transistors may also be referred to as power amplifiers, but the status of these discrete transistors is determined by 3A001.b.3.
b.4. Microwave solid state amplifiers and microwave assemblies/modules containing microwave solid state amplifiers, that are any of the following:
b.4.a. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz with a “fractional bandwidth” greater than 15%, and having any of the following:
b.4.a.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 500 W (57 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.7 GHz up to and including 2.9 GHz;
b.4.a.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 270 W (54.3 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2.9 GHz up to and including 3.2 GHz;
b.4.a.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 200 W (53 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.2 GHz up to and including 3.7 GHz;
or
b.4.a.4. A peak saturated power output greater than 90 W (49.54 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 3.7 GHz up to and including 6.8 GHz;
b.4.b. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz with a “fractional bandwidth” greater than 10%, and having any of the following:
b.4.b.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 70 W (48.45 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 6.8 GHz up to and including 8.5 GHz;
b.4.b.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 50 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 8.5 GHz up to and including 12 GHz;
b.4.b.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 30 W (44.77 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 12 GHz up to and including 16 GHz;
or
b.4.b.4. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (43 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31.8 GHz;
b.4.c. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0.5 W (27 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31.8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
b.4.d. Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 2 W (33 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43.5 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 10%;
b.4.e. Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 43.5 GHz and having any of the following:
b.4.e.1. A peak saturated power output greater than 0.2 W (23 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 43.5 GHz up to and including 75 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 10%;
b.4.e.2. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 mW (13 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 75 GHz up to and including 90 GHz, and with a “fractional bandwidth” of greater than 5%;
or
b.4.e.3. A peak saturated power output greater than 0.1 nW (−70 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
or
b.4.f. [Reserved]
N.B.:
1. For “
MMIC” amplifiers see 3A001.b.2.
2.
For 'transmit/receive modules' and 'transmit modules' see 3A001.b.12.
3.
For converters and harmonic mixers, designed to extend the operating or frequency range of signal analyzers, signal generators, network analyzers or microwave test receivers, see 3A001.b.7.
Note 1:
[Reserved]
Note 2:
The control status of an item whose rated operating frequency includes frequencies listed in more than one frequency range, as defined by 3A001.b.4.a through 3A001.b.4.e, is determined by the lowest peak saturated power output control threshold.
b.5. Electronically or magnetically tunable band-pass or band-stop filters, having more than 5 tunable resonators capable of tuning across a 1.5:1 frequency band (f
max
/f
min
) in less than 10 ms and having any of the following:
b.5.a. A band-pass bandwidth of more than 0.5% of center frequency;
or
b.5.b. A band-stop bandwidth of less than 0.5% of center frequency;
b.6. [Reserved]
b.7. Converters and harmonic mixers, that are any of the following:
b.7.a. Designed to extend the frequency range of “signal analyzers” beyond 90 GHz;
b.7.b. Designed to extend the operating range of signal generators as follows:
b.7.b.1. Beyond 90 GHz;
b.7.b.2. To an output power greater than 100 mW (20 dBm) anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 43.5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
b.7.c. Designed to extend the operating range of network analyzers as follows:
b.7.c.1. Beyond 110 GHz;
b.7.c.2. To an output power greater than 31.62 mW (15 dBm) anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 43.5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
b.7.c.3. To an output power greater than 1 mW (0 dBm) anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 90 GHz but not exceeding 110 GHz;
or
b.7.d. Designed to extend the frequency range of microwave test receivers beyond 110 GHz;
b.8. Microwave power amplifiers containing “vacuum electronic devices” controlled by 3A001.b.1 and having all of the following:
b.8.a. Operating frequencies above 3 GHz;
b.8.b. An average output power to mass ratio exceeding 80 W/kg;
and
b.8.c. A volume of less than 400 cm
3
;
Note:
3A001.b.8 does not control equipment designed or rated for operation in any frequency band which is “allocated by the ITU” for radio-communications services, but not for radio-determination.
b.9. Microwave Power Modules (MPM) consisting of, at least, a traveling-wave “vacuum electronic device,” a “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) and an integrated electronic power conditioner and having all of the following:
b.9.a. A 'turn-on time' from off to fully operational in less than 10 seconds;
b.9.b. A volume less than the maximum rated power in Watts multiplied by 10 cm
3
/W;
and
b.9.c. An “instantaneous bandwidth” greater than 1 octave (f
max
2f
min
) and having any of the following:
b.9.c.1. For frequencies equal to or less than 18 GHz, an RF output power greater than 100 W;
or
b.9.c.2. A frequency greater than 18 GHz;
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.b.9:
1. To calculate the volume in 3A001.b.9.b, the following example is provided: for a maximum rated power of 20 W, the volume would be: 20 W x 10 cm
3
/W = 200 cm
3
.
2. The 'turn-on time' in 3A001.b.9.a refers to the time from fully-off to fully operational, i.e., it includes the warm-up time of the MPM.
b.10. Oscillators or oscillator assemblies, specified to operate with a single sideband (SSB) phase noise, in dBc/Hz, less (better) than − (126 + 20log
10
F − 20log
10
f) anywhere within the range of 10 Hz ≤ F ≤ 10 kHz;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.b.10, F is the offset from the operating frequency in Hz and f is the operating frequency in MHz.
b.11. 'Frequency synthesizer' “electronic assemblies” having a “frequency switching time” as specified by any of the following:
b.11.a. Less than 143 ps;
b.11.b. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2.2 GHz within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 4.8 GHz but not exceeding 31.8 GHz;
b.11.c. [Reserved]
b.11.d. Less than 500 µs for any frequency change exceeding 550 MHz within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 31.8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;
b.11.e. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2.2 GHz within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not exceeding 75 GHz;
b.11.f. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 5.0 GHz within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 75 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
or
b.11.g. Less than 1 ms within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 90 GHz;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.b.11, a 'frequency synthesizer' is any kind of frequency source, regardless of the actual technique used, providing a multiplicity of simultaneous or alternative output frequencies, from one or more outputs, controlled by, derived from or disciplined by a lesser number of standard (or master) frequencies.
N.B.:
For general purpose “signal analyzers”, signal generators, network analyzers and microwave test receivers, see 3A002.c, 3A002.d, 3A002.e and 3A002.f, respectively.
b.12. 'Transmit/receive modules,' 'transmit/receive MMICs,' 'transmit modules,' and 'transmit MMICs,' rated for operation at frequencies above 2.7 GHz and having all of the following:
b.12.a. A peak saturated power output (in watts), P
sat
, greater than 505.62 divided by the maximum operating frequency (in GHz) squared [P
sat
505.62 W*GHz
2
/f
GHz
2
] for any channel;
b.12.b. A “fractional bandwidth” of 5% or greater for any channel;
b.12.c. Any planar side with length d (in cm) equal to or less than 15 divided by the lowest operating frequency in GHz [d ≤ 15cm*GHz*N/f
GHz
] where N is the number of transmit or transmit/receive channels;
and
b.12.d. An electronically variable phase shifter per channel;
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A001.b.12:
1. A 'transmit/receive module' is a multifunction “electronic assembly” that provides bi-directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of signals.
2. A 'transmit module' is an “electronic assembly” that provides amplitude and phase control for transmission of signals.
3. A 'transmit/receive MMIC' is a multifunction “MMIC” that provides bi-directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of signals.
4. A 'transmit MMIC' is a “MMIC” that provides amplitude and phase control for transmission of signals.
5. 2.7 GHz should be used as the lowest operating frequency (f
GHz
)
in the formula in 3A001.b.12.c for transmit/receive or transmit
modules that have a rated operation range extending downward to 2.7 GHz and below [d≤15cm*GHz*N/2.7 GHz].
6. 3A001.b.12 applies to 'transmit/receive modules' or 'transmit modules' with or without a heat sink. The value of d in 3A001.b.12.c does not include any portion of the 'transmit/receive module' or 'transmit module' that functions as a heat sink.
7. 'Transmit/receive modules' or 'transmit modules,' 'transmit/receive MMICs' or 'transmit MMICs' may or may not have N integrated radiating antenna elements where N is the number of transmit or transmit/receive channels.
c. Acoustic wave devices as follows and “specially designed” “components” therefor:
c.1. Surface acoustic wave and surface skimming (shallow bulk) acoustic wave devices, having any of the following:
c.1.a. A carrier frequency exceeding 6 GHz;
c.1.b. A carrier frequency exceeding 1 GHz, but not exceeding 6 GHz and having any of the following:
c.1.b.1. A 'frequency side-lobe rejection' exceeding 65 dB;
c.1.b.2. A product of the maximum delay time and the bandwidth (time in µs and bandwidth in MHz) of more than 100;
c.1.b.3. A bandwidth greater than 250 MHz;
or
c.1.b.4. A dispersive delay of more than 10 µs;
or
c.1.c. A carrier frequency of 1 GHz or less and having any of the following:
c.1.c.1. A product of the maximum delay time and the bandwidth (time in µs and bandwidth in MHz) of more than 100;
c.1.c.2. A dispersive delay of more than 10 µs;
or
c.1.c.3. A 'frequency side-lobe rejection' exceeding 65 dB and a bandwidth greater than 100 MHz;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.c.1, 'frequency side-lobe rejection' is the maximum rejection value specified in data sheet.
c.2. Bulk (volume) acoustic wave devices that permit the direct processing of signals at frequencies exceeding 6 GHz;
c.3. Acoustic-optic “signal processing” devices employing interaction between acoustic waves (bulk wave or surface wave) and light waves that permit the direct processing of signals or images, including spectral analysis, correlation or convolution;
Note:
3A001.c does not control acoustic wave devices that are limited to a single band pass, low pass, high pass or notch filtering, or resonating function.
d. Electronic devices and circuits containing “components,” manufactured from “superconductive” materials, “specially designed” for operation at temperatures below the “critical temperature” of at least one of the “superconductive” constituents and having any of the following:
d.1. Current switching for digital circuits using “superconductive” gates with a product of delay time per gate (in seconds) and power dissipation per gate (in watts) of less than 10
−14
J;
or
d.2. Frequency selection at all frequencies using resonant circuits with Q-values exceeding 10,000;
e. High energy devices as follows:
e.1. 'Cells' as follows:
e.1.a 'Primary cells' having any of the following at 20 °C:
e.1.a.1. 'Energy density' exceeding 550 Wh/kg and a 'continuous power density' exceeding 50 W/kg;
or
e.1.a.2. 'Energy density' exceeding 50 Wh/kg and a 'continuous power density' exceeding 350 W/kg;
e.1.b. 'Secondary cells' having an 'energy density' exceeding 350 Wh/kg at 20 °C;
Technical Notes:
1. For the purposes of 3A001.e.1, 'energy density' (Wh/kg) is calculated from the nominal voltage multiplied by the nominal capacity in ampere-hours (Ah) divided by the mass in kilograms. If the nominal capacity is not stated, energy density is calculated from the nominal voltage squared then multiplied by the discharge duration in hours divided by the discharge load in Ohms and the mass in kilograms.
2. For the purposes of 3A001.e.1, a 'cell' is defined as an electrochemical device, which has positive and negative electrodes, an electrolyte, and is a source of electrical energy. It is the basic building block of a battery.
3. For the purposes of 3A001.e.1.a, a 'primary cell' is a 'cell' that is not designed to be charged by any other source.
4. For the purposes of 3A001.e.1.b, a 'secondary cell' is a 'cell' that is designed to be charged by an external electrical source.
5. For the purposes of 3A001.e.1.a, 'continuous power density' (W/kg) is calculated from the nominal voltage multiplied by the specified maximum continuous discharge current in ampere (A) divided by the mass in kilograms. 'Continuous power density' is also referred to as specific power.
Note:
3A001.e does not control batteries, including single-cell batteries.
e.2. High energy storage capacitors as follows:
e.2.a. Capacitors with a repetition rate of less than 10 Hz (single shot capacitors) and having all of the following:
e.2.a.1. A voltage rating equal to or more than 5 kV;
e.2.a.2. An energy density equal to or more than 250 J/kg;
and
e.2.a.3. A total energy equal to or more than 25 kJ;
e.2.b. Capacitors with a repetition rate of 10 Hz or more (repetition rated capacitors) and having all of the following:
e.2.b.1. A voltage rating equal to or more than 5 kV;
e.2.b.2. An energy density equal to or more than 50 J/kg;
e.2.b.3. A total energy equal to or more than 100 J;
and
e.2.b.4. A charge/discharge cycle life equal to or more than 10,000;
e.3. “Superconductive” electromagnets and solenoids, “specially designed” to be fully charged or discharged in less than one second and having all of the following:
Note:
3A001.e.3 does not control “superconductive” electromagnets or solenoids “specially designed” for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) medical equipment.
e.3.a. Energy delivered during the discharge exceeding 10 kJ in the first second;
e.3.b. Inner diameter of the current carrying windings of more than 250 mm;
and
e.3.c. Rated for a magnetic induction of more than 8 T or “overall current density” in the winding of more than 300 A/mm
2
;
e.4. Solar cells, cell-interconnect-coverglass (CIC) assemblies, solar panels, and solar arrays, which are “space-qualified,” having a minimum average efficiency exceeding 20% at an operating temperature of 301 K (28 °C) under simulated 'AM0' illumination with an irradiance of 1,367 Watts per square meter (W/m
2
);
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.e.4, 'AM0', or 'Air Mass Zero', refers to the spectral irradiance of sun light in the earth's outer atmosphere when the distance between the earth and sun is one astronomical unit (AU).
f. Rotary input type absolute position encoders having an “accuracy” equal to or less (better) than 1.0 second of arc and “specially designed” encoder rings, discs or scales therefor;
g. Solid-state pulsed power switching thyristor devices and 'thyristor modules', using either electrically, optically, or electron radiation controlled switch methods and having any of the following:
g.1. A maximum turn-on current rate of rise (di/dt) greater than 30,000 A/µs and off-state voltage greater than 1,100 V;
or
g.2. A maximum turn-on current rate of rise (di/dt) greater than 2,000 A/µs and having all of the following:
g.2.a. An off-state peak voltage equal to or greater than 3,000 V;
and
g.2.b. A peak (surge) current equal to or greater than 3,000 A;
Note 1:
3A001.g. includes:
—
Silicon Controlled Rectifiers (SCRs)
—
Electrical Triggering Thyristors (ETTs)
—
Light Triggering Thyristors (LTTs)
—
Integrated Gate Commutated Thyristors (IGCTs)
—
Gate Turn-off Thyristors (GTOs)
—
MOS Controlled Thyristors (MCTs)
—
Solidtrons
Note 2:
3A001.g does not control thyristor devices and 'thyristor modules' incorporated into equipment designed for civil railway or “civil aircraft” applications.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.g, a 'thyristor module' contains one or more thyristor devices.
h. Solid-state power semiconductor switches, diodes, or 'modules', having all of the following:
h.1. Rated for a maximum operating junction temperature greater than 488 K (215 °C);
h.2. Repetitive peak off-state voltage (blocking voltage) exceeding 300 V;
and
h.3. Continuous current greater than 1 A.
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.h, 'modules' contain one or more solid-state power semiconductor switches or diodes.
Note 1:
Repetitive peak off-state voltage in 3A001.h includes drain to source voltage, collector to emitter voltage, repetitive peak reverse voltage and peak repetitive off-state blocking voltage.
Note 2:
3A001.h includes:
—
Junction Field Effect Transistors (JFETs)
—
Vertical Junction Field Effect Transistors (VJFETs)
—
Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MOSFETs)
—
Double Diffused Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor (DMOSFET)
—
Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor (IGBT)
—
High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMTs)
—
Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJTs)
—
Thyristors and Silicon Controlled Rectifiers (SCRs)
—
Gate Turn-Off Thyristors (GTOs)
—
Emitter Turn-Off Thyristors (ETOs)
—
PiN Diodes
—
Schottky Diodes
Note 3:
3A001.h does not apply to switches, diodes, or 'modules', incorporated into equipment designed for civil automobile, civil railway, or “civil aircraft” applications.
i. Intensity, amplitude, or phase electro-optic modulators, designed for analog signals and having any of the following:
i.1. A maximum operating frequency of more than 10 GHz but less than 20 GHz, an optical insertion loss equal to or less than 3 dB and having any of the following:
i.1.a. A 'half-wave voltage' ('Vπ') less than 2.7 V when measured at a frequency of 1 GHz or below;
or
i.1.b. A 'Vπ' of less than 4 V when measured at a frequency of more than 1 GHz;
or
i.2. A maximum operating frequency equal to or greater than 20 GHz, an optical insertion loss equal to or less than 3 dB and having any of the following:
i.2.a. A 'Vπ' less than 3.3 V when measured at a frequency of 1 GHz or below;
or
i.2.b. A 'Vπ' less than 5 V when measured at a frequency of more than 1 GHz.
Note:
3A001.i includes electro-optic modulators having optical input and output connectors (e.g., fiber-optic pigtails).
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A001.i, a 'half-wave voltage' ('Vπ') is the applied voltage necessary to make a phase change of 180 degrees
in the wavelength of light propagating through the optical modulator.
j. through y. [Reserved]
z. Any commodity described in 3A001 that meets or exceeds the performance parameters in 3A090, as follows:
z.1. “Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit” (“MMIC”) amplifiers described in 3A001.b.2 and discrete microwave transistors in 3A001.b.3 that also meet or exceed the performance parameters in ECCN 3A090, except those 3A001.b.2 and b.3 items being exported or reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications;
z.2. Commodities that are described in 3A001.a.1.a when usable in “missiles” that also meet or exceed the performance parameters in ECCN 3A090; and to 3A001.a.5.a when “designed or modified” for military use, hermetically sealed and rated for operation in the temperature range from below −54 °C to above +125 °C and that also meet or exceed the performance parameters in ECCN 3A090;
z.3. Pulse discharge capacitors described in 3A001.e.2 and superconducting solenoidal electromagnets in 3A001.e.3 that meet or exceed the technical parameters in 3A201.a and 3A201.b, respectively and that also meet or exceed the performance parameters in ECCN 3A090;
or
z.4. All other commodities specified in this ECCN that meet or exceed the performance parameters of ECCN 3A090.
3A002 General purpose “electronic assemblies,” modules and equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, MT, AT
Control(s)
Country chart (see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2
MT applies to 3A002.h when the parameters in 3A101.a.2.b are met or exceeded
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
Reporting Requirements:
See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
$3000: 3A002.a, .e, .f, and .g
$5000: 3A002.c to .d, and .h (unless controlled for MT);
GBS:
Yes, for 3A002.h (unless controlled for MT)
Special Conditions for STA
STA:
License Exception STA may not be used to ship any item in 3A002.g.1 to any of the destinations listed in Country Group A:6 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See Category XV(e)(9) of the USML for certain “space-qualified” atomic frequency standards “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130). See also 3A101, 3A992 and 9A515.x.
Related Definitions:
Constant percentage bandwidth filters are also known as octave or fractional octave filters.
Items:
a. Recording equipment and oscilloscopes, as follows:
a.1. to a.5. [Reserved]
N.B.:
For waveform digitizers and transient recorders, see 3A002.h.
a.6. Digital data recorders having all of the following:
a.6.a. A sustained 'continuous throughput' of more than 6.4 Gbit/s to disk or solid-state drive memory;
and
a.6.b. “Signal processing” of the radio frequency signal data while it is being recorded;
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A002.a.6:
1.
For recorders with a parallel bus architecture, the 'continuous throughput' rate is the highest word rate multiplied by the number of bits in a word.
2.
'Continuous throughput' is the fastest data rate the instrument can record to disk or solid-state drive memory without the loss of any information while sustaining the input digital data rate or digitizer conversion rate.
a.7. Real-time oscilloscopes having a vertical root-mean-square (rms) noise voltage of less than 2% of full-scale at the vertical scale setting that provides the lowest noise value for any input 3dB bandwidth of 60 GHz or greater per channel;
Note:
3A002.a.7 does not apply to equivalent-time sampling oscilloscopes.
b. [Reserved]
c. “Signal analyzers” as follows:
c.1. “Signal analyzers” having a 3 dB resolution bandwidth (RBW) exceeding 40 MHz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 31.8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;
c.2. “Signal analyzers” having a Displayed Average Noise Level (DANL) less (better) than −150 dBm/Hz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 43.5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
c.3. “Signal analyzers” having a frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
c.4. “Signal analyzers” having all of the following:
c.4.a. 'Real-time bandwidth' exceeding 170 MHz;
and
c.4.b. Having any of the following:
c.4.b.1. 100% probability of discovery, with less than a 3 dB reduction from full amplitude due to gaps or windowing effects, of signals having a duration of 15 µs or less;
or
c.4.b.2. A 'frequency mask trigger' function, with 100% probability of trigger (capture) for signals having a duration of 15 µs or less;
Technical Notes:
1.
For the purposes of 3A002.c.4.a, 'real-time bandwidth' is the widest frequency range for which the analyzer can continuously transform time-domain data entirely into frequency-domain results, using a Fourier or other discrete time transform that processes every incoming time point, without a reduction of measured amplitude of more than 3 dB below the actual signal amplitude caused by gaps or windowing effects, while outputting or displaying the transformed data.
2.
For the purposes of 3A002.c.4.b.1., probability of discovery is also referred to as probability of intercept or probability of capture.
3.
For the purposes of 3A002.c.4.b.1, the duration for 100% probability of discovery is equivalent to the minimum signal duration necessary for the specified level measurement uncertainty.
4.
For the purposes of 3A002.c.4.b.2, a 'frequency mask trigger' is a mechanism where the trigger function is able to select a frequency range to be triggered on as a subset of the acquisition bandwidth while ignoring other signals that may also be present within the same acquisition bandwidth. A 'frequency mask trigger' may contain more than one independent set of limits.
Note:
3A002.c.4 does not apply to those “signal analyzers” using only constant percentage bandwidth filters (also known as octave or fractional octave filters).
c.5. [Reserved]
d. Signal generators having any of the following:
d.1. Specified to generate pulse-modulated signals having all of the following, anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 31.8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz:
d.1.a. 'Pulse duration' of less than 25 ns;
and
d.1.b. On/off ratio equal to or exceeding 65 dB;
d.2. An output power exceeding 100 mW (20 dBm) anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 43.5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
d.3. A “frequency switching time” as specified by any of the following:
d.3.a. [Reserved]
d.3.b. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2.2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 4.8 GHz but not exceeding 31.8 GHz;
d.3.c. [Reserved]
d.3.d. Less than 500 µs for any frequency change exceeding 550 MHz within the frequency range exceeding 31.8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;
d.3.e. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2.2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not exceeding 75 GHz;
or
d.3.f. [Reserved]
d.3.g. Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 5.0 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 75 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz.
d.4. A single sideband (SSB) phase noise, in dBc/Hz, specified as being any of the following:
d.4.a. Less (better) than −(126 + 20 log
10
F−20log
10
f) for anywhere within the range of 10 Hz ≤ F ≤ 10 kHz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 3.2 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
or
d.4.b. Less (better) than −(206−20log
10
f) for anywhere within the range of 10 kHz
F ≤ 100 kHz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 3.2 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A002.d.4, F is the offset from the operating frequency in Hz and f is the operating frequency in MHz.
d.5. An 'RF modulation bandwidth' of digital baseband signals as specified by any of the following:
d.5.a. Exceeding 2.2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 4.8 GHz but not exceeding 31.8 GHz;
d.5.b. Exceeding 550 MHz within the frequency range exceeding 31.8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;
d.5.c. Exceeding 2.2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not exceeding 75 GHz;
d.5.d. Exceeding 5.0 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 75 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
or
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A002.d.5, 'RF modulation bandwidth' is the Radio Frequency (RF) bandwidth occupied by a digitally encoded baseband signal modulated onto an RF signal. It is also referred to as information bandwidth or vector modulation bandwidth. I/Q digital modulation is the technical method for producing a vector-modulated RF output signal, and that output signal is typically specified as having an 'RF modulation bandwidth'.
d.6. A maximum frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
Note 1:
For the purposes of 3A002.d, signal generators include arbitrary waveform and function generators.
Note 2:
3A002.d does not control equipment in which the output frequency is either produced by the addition or subtraction of two or more crystal oscillator frequencies, or by an addition or subtraction followed by a multiplication of the result.
Technical Notes:
1.
For the purposes of 3A002.d, the maximum frequency of an arbitrary waveform or function generator is calculated by dividing the sample rate, in samples/second, by a factor of 2.5.
2.
For the purposes of 3A002.d.1.a, 'pulse duration' is defined as the time interval from the point on the leading edge that is 50% of the pulse amplitude to the point on the trailing edge that is 50% of the pulse amplitude.
e. Network analyzers having any of the following:
e.1. An output power exceeding 31.62 mW (15 dBm) anywhere within the operating frequency range exceeding 43.5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
e.2. An output power exceeding 1 mW (0 dBm) anywhere within the operating frequency range exceeding 90 GHz but not exceeding 110 GHz;
e.3. 'Nonlinear vector measurement functionality' at frequencies exceeding 50 GHz but not exceeding 110 GHz;
or
Technical Note:
For the purposes of 3A002.e.3, 'nonlinear vector measurement functionality' is an instrument's ability to analyze the test results of devices driven into the large-signal domain or the non-linear distortion range.
e.4. A maximum operating frequency exceeding 110 GHz;
f. Microwave test receivers having all of the following:
f.1. Maximum operating frequency exceeding 110 GHz;
and
f.2. Being capable of measuring amplitude and phase simultaneously;
g. Atomic frequency standards being any of the following:
g.1. “Space-qualified”;
g.2. Non-rubidium and having a long-term stability less (better) than 1 × 10
−11
/month;
or
g.3. Non-“space-qualified” and having all of the following:
g.3.a. Being a rubidium standard;
g.3.b. Long-term stability less (better) than 1 × 10
−11
/month;
and
g.3.c. Total power consumption of less than 1 Watt.
h. “Electronic assemblies,” modules or equipment, specified to perform all of the following:
h.1. Analog-to-digital conversions meeting any of the following:
h.1.a. A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);
h.1.b. A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.0 GSPS;
h.1.c. A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 1.0 GSPS;
h.1.d. A resolution of 14 bit or more but less than 16 bit, with a “sample rate” greater than 400 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS);
or
h.1.e. A resolution of 16 bit or more with a “sample rate” greater than 180 MSPS;
and
h.2. Any of the following:
h.2.a. Output of digitized data;
h.2.b. Storage of digitized data;
or
h.2.c. Processing of digitized data;
N.B.:
Digital data recorders, oscilloscopes, “signal analyzers,” signal generators, network analyzers and microwave test receivers, are specified by 3A002.a.6, 3A002.a.7, 3A002.c, 3A002.d, 3A002.e and 3A002.f, respectively.
Technical Notes:
For the purposes of 3A002.h:
1.
A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantization of 2
n
levels.
2.
The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output of the ADC that represents the measured analog input word. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is not used to determine the resolution of the ADC.
3.
For non-interleaved multiple-channel “electronic assemblies”, modules, or equipment, the “sample rate” is not aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum rate of any single channel.
4.
For interleaved channels on multiple-channel “electronic assemblies”, modules, or equipment, the “sample rates” are aggregated and the “sample rate” is the maximum combined total rate of all the interleaved channels.
Note:
3A002.h includes ADC cards, waveform digitizers, data acquisition cards, signal acquisition boards and transient recorders.
3A003 Spray cooling thermal management systems employing closed loop fluid handling and reconditioning equipment in a sealed enclosure where a dielectric fluid is sprayed onto electronic “components” using “specially designed” spray nozzles that are designed to maintain electronic “components” within their operating temperature range, and “specially designed” “components” therefore.
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NS, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NS applies to entire entry
NS Column 2.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
N/A
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.
3A090 Integrated circuits as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
RS, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
RS applies to entire entry, except 3A090.c
To or within destinations specified in Country Groups D:1, D:4, and D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6. See § 742.6(a)(6)(iii) of the EAR.
RS applies to 3A090.c
To or within Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. See § 742.6(a)(6)(i)(B) of the EAR.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
NAC/ACA:
Yes, for 3A090.a, if the item is not designed or marketed for use in datacenters and has a 'total processing performance' of 4800 or more; yes, for 3A090.b, if the item is designed or marketed for use in datacenters. N/A for 3A090.c.
HBM:
Yes, for 3A090.c. See § 740.25 of the EAR.
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3D001, 3E001, 5D002.z, and 5D992.z for associated technology and software controls. (2) See ECCNs 3A001.z, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, and 5A992.z.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Integrated circuits having one or more digital processing units having either of the following:
a.1. A 'total processing performance' of 4800 or more,
or
a.2. A 'total processing performance' of 1600 or more and a 'performance density' of 5.92 or more.
b. Integrated circuits having one or more digital processing units having either of the following:
b.1. A 'total processing performance' of 2400 or more and less than 4800 and a 'performance density' of 1.6 or more and less than 5.92,
or
b.2. A 'total processing performance' of 1600 or more and a 'performance density' of 3.2 or more and less than 5.92.
Note 1 to 3A090.a and 3A090.b

# :
3A090.a and 3A090.b do not apply to items that are not designed or marketed for use in datacenters and do not have a 'total processing performance' of 4800 or more. For 3A090.a and 3A090.b items that are not designed or marketed for use in datacenters and that have a 'total processing performance' of 4800 or more, see license exceptions NAC and ACA.
Note 2 to 3A090.a and 3A090.b

# :
Integrated circuits specified by 3A090 include graphical processing units (GPUs), tensor processing units (TPUs), neural processors, in-memory processors, vision processors, text processors, co-processors/accelerators, adaptive processors, field-programmable logic devices (FPLDs), and application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Examples of integrated circuits are in the Note to 3A001.a.
Note 3 to 3A090.a and 3A090.b

# :
For integrated circuits (ICs) that are excluded from ECCN 3A090 under Note 2 or 3 to 3A090, those ICs are also not applicable for classifications made under ECCNs 3A001.z, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 4A090, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, 5A992.z, 5D002.z, or 5D992.z because those other CCL classifications are based on the incorporation of an integrated circuit (IC) that meets the control parameters under ECCN 3A090 or otherwise meets or exceeds the control parameters or ECCNs 3A090 or 4A090. The performance parameters under ECCN 3A090.c are not used for determining whether an item is classified in a .z ECCN. See the Related Controls paragraphs of ECCNs 3A001.z, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 4A090, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, 5A992.z, 5D002.z, or 5D992.z.
Technical Notes to 3A090.a and 3A090.b

# :
1. 'Total processing performance' ('TPP') is 2 × 'MacTOPS' × 'bit length of the operation', aggregated over all processing units on the integrated circuit.
a. For purposes of 3A090, 'MacTOPS' is the theoretical peak number of Tera (10
12
) operations per second for multiply-accumulate computation (D = A × B + C).
b. The 2 in the 'TPP' formula is based on industry convention of counting one multiply-accumulate computation, D = A × B + C, as 2 operations for purpose of datasheets. Therefore, 2 × MacTOPS may correspond to the reported TOPS or FLOPS on a datasheet.
c. For purposes of 3A090, 'bit length of the operation' for a multiply-accumulate computation is the largest bit-length of the inputs to the multiply operation.
d. Aggregate the TPPs for each processing unit on the integrated circuit to arrive at a total. 'TPP' = TPP1 + TPP2 + . . . . + TPPn (where n is the number or processing units on the integrated circuit).
2. The rate of 'MacTOPS' is to be calculated at its maximum value theoretically possible. The rate of 'MacTOPS' is assumed to be the highest value the manufacturer claims in annual or brochure for the integrated circuit. For example, the 'TPP' threshold of 4800 can be met with 600 tera integer operations (or 2 × 300 'MacTOPS') at 8 bits or 300 tera FLOPS (or 2 × 150 'MacTOPS') at 16 bits. If the integrated circuit (IC) is designed for MAC computation with multiple bit lengths that achieve different 'TPP' values, the highest 'TPP' value should be evaluated against parameters in 3A090.
3. For integrated circuits specified by 3A090 that provide processing of both sparse and dense matrices, the 'TPP' values are the values for processing of dense matrices (e.g., without sparsity).
4. 'Performance density' is 'TPP' divided by 'applicable die area'. For purposes of 3A090, 'applicable die area' is measured in millimeters squared and includes all die area of logic dies
manufactured with a process node that uses a non-planar transistor architecture.
c. High bandwidth memory (HBM) having a 'memory bandwidth density' greater than 2 gigabytes per second per square millimeter.
Technical note to 3A090.c

# :
'Memory bandwidth density' is the memory bandwidth measured in gigabytes per second divided by the area of the package or stack measured in square millimeters. In the case where a stack is contained in a package, use the memory bandwidth of the packaged device and the area of the package. High bandwidth memory (HBM) includes dynamic random access memory integrated circuits, regardless of whether they conform to the JEDEC standards for high bandwidth memory, provided they have a 'memory bandwidth density' greater than 2 gigabytes per second per square millimeter. This control does not cover co-packaged integrated circuits with both HBM and logic integrated circuit where the dominant function of the co-packaged integrated circuit is processing. It does include HBM permanently affixed to a logic integrated circuit designed as a control interface and incorporating a physical layer (PHY) function.
3A101 Electronic equipment, devices, “parts” and “components,” other than those controlled by 3A001, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
MT, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
MT applies to entire entry
MT Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
See also ECCN 3A002.h for controls on analog-to-digital “electronic assemblies,” modules or equipment.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Analog-to-digital converters usable in “missiles,” and having any of the following characteristics:
a.1. “Specially designed” to meet military specifications for ruggedized equipment;
a.2. “Specially designed” for military use and being any of the following types:
a.2.a. Analog-to-digital converter microcircuits which are radiation-hardened or have all of the following characteristics:
a.2.a.1. Rated for operation in the temperature range from below −54 °C to above +125 °C;
and
a.2.a.2. Hermetically sealed;
or
a.2.b. Electrical input type analog-to-digital converter printed circuit boards or modules, having all of the following characteristics:
a.2.b.1. Rated for operation in the temperature range from below −45 °C to above +80 °C;
and
a.2.b.2. Incorporating microcircuits identified in 3A101.a.2 .a;
b. Accelerators capable of delivering electromagnetic radiation produced by bremsstrahlung from accelerated electrons of 2 MeV or greater, and systems containing those accelerators, usable for the “missiles” or the subsystems of “missiles”.
Note:
3A101.b above does not include equipment “specially designed” for medical purposes.
3A201 Electronic “parts” and “components,” other than those controlled by 3A001, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2)
Also see
3A001.e.2 (capacitors) and 3A001.e.3 (superconducting electromagnets). (3) Superconducting electromagnets “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Pulse discharge capacitors having either of the following sets of characteristics:
a.1. Voltage rating greater than 1.4 kV, energy storage greater than 10 J, capacitance greater than 0.5 µF,
and
series inductance less than 50 nH;
or
a.2. Voltage rating greater than 750 V, capacitance greater than 0.25 µF,
and
series inductance less than 10 nH;
b. Superconducting solenoidal electromagnets having all of the following characteristics:
b.1. Capable of creating magnetic fields greater than 2 T;
b.2. A ratio of length to inner diameter greater than 2;
b.3. Inner diameter greater than 300 mm;
and
b.4. Magnetic field uniform to better than 1% over the central 50% of the inner volume;
Note:
3A201.b does not control magnets “specially designed” for and exported “as parts of” medical nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging systems. The phrase “as part of” does not
necessarily mean physical part in the same shipment; separate shipments from different sources are allowed, provided the related export documents clearly specify that the shipments are dispatched “as part of” the imaging systems.
c. Flash X-ray generators or pulsed electron accelerators having either of the following sets of characteristics:
c.1. An accelerator peak electron energy of 500 keV or greater, but less than 25 MeV,
and
with a “figure of merit” (K) of 0.25 or greater;
or
c.2. An accelerator peak electron energy of 25 MeV or greater,
and
a “peak power” greater than 50 MW;
Note:
3A201.c does not control accelerators that are “parts” or “components” of devices designed for purposes other than electron beam or X-ray radiation (electron microscopy, for example) nor those designed for medical purposes.
Technical Notes:
(1) The “figure of merit” K is defined as: K = 1.7 × 10
3
V
2.65
Q. V is the peak electron energy in million electron volts. If the accelerator beam pulse duration is less than or equal to 1 µs, then Q is the total accelerated charge in Coulombs. If the accelerator beam pulse duration is greater than 1 µs, then Q is the maximum accelerated charge in 1 µs. Q equals the intergral of i with respect to t, over the lesser of 1 µs or the time duration of the beam pulse Q= ∫ idt), where i is beam current in amperes and t is time in seconds.
(2) “Peak power” = (peak potential in volts) × (peak beam current in amperes).
(3) In machines based on microwave accelerating cavities, the time duration of the beam pulse is the lesser of 1 µs or the duration of the bunched beam packet resulting from one microwave modulator pulse.
(4) In machines based on microwave accelerating cavities, the peak beam current is the average current in the time duration of a bunched beam packet.
3A225 Frequency changers (a.k.a. converters or inverters) and generators, except those subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110), that are usable as a variable frequency or fixed frequency motor drive and have all of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCN 3D201 for “software” “specially designed” for the “use” of equipment described in this entry. (2) See ECCN 3D202 for “software” “specially designed” to enhance or release the performance characteristics of frequency changers or generators to meet or exceed the level of the performance characteristics described in this entry. (3) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for “technology” for items controlled under this entry. (4) Frequency changers (a.k.a. converters or inverters) “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Multiphase output providing a power of 40 VA or greater;
b. Operating at a frequency of 600 Hz or more;
and
c. Frequency control better (less) than 0.2%.
Notes:
1. This ECCN controls frequency changers intended for use in specific industrial machinery and/or consumer goods (machine tools, vehicles, etc.) only if the frequency changers can meet the performance characteristics described in this entry when removed from the machinery and/or goods. This Note does not exclude from control under this entry any frequency changer described herein that is the principal element of a non-controlled item and can feasibly be removed or used for other purposes.
2. To determine whether a particular frequency changer meets or exceeds the performance characteristics described in this entry, both hardware and “software” performance constraints must be considered.
Technical Notes:
1. Frequency changers controlled by this ECCN are also known as converters or inverters.
2. The performance characteristics described in this ECCN also may be met by certain equipment marketed as: Generators, electronic test equipment, AC power supplies, variable speed motor drives, variable speed drives (VSDs), variable frequency drives (VFDs), adjustable frequency drives (AFDs), or adjustable speed drives (ASDs).
3A226 High-power direct current power supplies having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled), excluding items that are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 3A227. (3) Direct current power supplies “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 100 V or greater with current output of 500 A or greater;
and
b. Current or voltage stability better than 0.1% over a time period of 8 hours.
3A227 High-voltage direct current power supplies, having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled), excluding items that are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Also see ECCN 3A226. (3) Direct current power supplies “specially designed” or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 20 kV or greater with current output of 1 A or greater;
and
b. Current or voltage stability better than 0.1% over a time period of 8 hours.
3A228 Switching devices, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
(2) Also see ECCN 3A991.k.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Cold-cathode tubes, whether gas filled or not, operating similarly to a spark gap, having all of the following characteristics:
a.1. Containing three or more electrodes;
a.2. Anode peak voltage rating of 2.5 kV or more;
a.3. Anode peak current rating of 100 A or more;
and
a.4. Anode delay time of 10 µs or less.
Technical Note:
3A228.a includes gas krytron tubes and vacuum sprytron tubes.
b. Triggered spark-gaps having both of the following characteristics:
b.1. An anode delay time of 15 µs or less;
and
b.2. Rated for a peak current of 500 A or more.
c. Modules or assemblies with a fast switching function having all of the following characteristics:
c.1. Anode peak voltage rating greater than 2 kV;
c.2. Anode peak current rating of 500 A or more;
and
c.3. Turn-on time of 1 µs or less.
3A229 Firing sets and equivalent high-current pulse generators for detonators controlled by 3A232 (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT, foreign policy
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Russian industry sector sanctions apply to entire entry
See § 746.8 for specific license requirements and license review policy.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 and 1E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 and 1E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) See 1A007.a for explosive detonator firing sets designed to drive explosive detonators controlled by 1A007.b. (3) High explosives and related equipment for military use are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
(1) Optically driven firing sets include both those employing laser initiation and laser charging. (2) Explosively driven firing sets include booth explosive ferroelectric and explosive ferromagnetic firing set types. (3) 3A229.b includes xenon flash-lamp drivers.
Items:
a. Detonator firing sets (initiation systems, firesets), including electronically-charged, explosively-driven and optically-driven firing sets designed to drive multiple controlled detonators controlled by 3A232;
b. Modular electrical pulse generators (pulsers) having all of the following characteristics:
b.1. Designed for portable, mobile, or ruggedized use;
b.2. Capable of delivering their energy in less than 15 µs into loads of less than 40 Ω (ohms);
b.3. Having an output greater than 100 A;
b.4. No dimension greater than 30 cm;
b.5. Weight less than 30 kg;
and
b.6. Specified for use over an extended temperature range 223 K (−50 °C) to 373 K (100 °C) or specified as suitable for aerospace applications.
c. Micro-firing units having all of the following characteristics:
c.1. No dimension greater than 35 mm;
c.2. Voltage rating of equal to or greater than 1 kV;
and
c.3. Capacitance of equal to or greater than 100 nF.
3A230 High-speed pulse generators, and pulse heads therefor, having both of the following characteristics (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country Chart (See Supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) See ECCNs 3A002.d.1, 3A992.a and 3A999.d.
Related Definitions:
1. In 3A230.b, the term “pulse transition time” is defined as the time interval between 10% and 90% voltage amplitude. 2. Pulse heads are impulse forming networks designed to accept a voltage step function and shape it into a variety of pulse forms that can include rectangular, triangular, step, impulse, exponential, or monocycle types. Pulse heads can be an integral part of the pulse generator, they can be a plug-in module to the device or they can be an externally connected device.
Items:
a. Output voltage greater than 6 V into a resistive load of less than 55 ohms;
and
b. “Pulse transition time” less than 500 ps.
3A231 Neutron generator systems, including tubes, having both of the characteristics described in this ECCN (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT, foreign policy
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Russian industry sector sanctions apply to entire entry
See § 746.8 for specific license requirements and license review policy.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls: See
ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry.
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Designed for operation without an external vacuum system; and
b. Utilizing electrostatic acceleration to induce:
b.1. A tritium-deuterium nuclear reaction;
or
b.2. A deuterium-deuterium nuclear reaction and capable of an output of 3 × 10
9
neutrons/s or greater.
3A232 Detonators and multipoint initiation systems, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
AT, RS, foreign policy
Control(s)
Country chart
(see Supp. No. 1
to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
Russian industry sector sanctions apply to entire entry
See § 746.8 for specific license requirements and license review policy.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 0A604 and 1A007 for electrically driven explosive detonators. (2) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (3) High explosives and related equipment for military use are “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
Related Definitions:
N/A
ECCN Controls:
This entry does not control detonators using only primary explosives, such as lead azide.
Items:
a. [Reserved]
b. Arrangements using single or multiple detonators designed to nearly simultaneously initiate an explosive surface over an area greater than 5,000 mm
2
from a single firing signal with an initiation timing spread over the surface of less than 2.5 µs.
Technical Note:
The word initiator is sometimes used in place of the word detonator.
3A233 Mass spectrometers, capable of measuring ions of 230 u or greater and having a resolution of better than 2 parts in 230, and ion sources therefor, excluding items that are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
License Requirements
Reason for Control:
NP, AT
Control(s)
Country chart
(see supp. No. 1 to part 738)
NP applies to entire entry
NP Column 1.
AT applies to entire entry
AT Column 1.
List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a Description of All License Exceptions)
LVS:
N/A
GBS:
N/A
List of Items Controlled
Related Controls:
(1) See ECCNs 3E001 (“development” and “production”) and 3E201 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under this entry. (2) Mass spectrometers “specially designed” or prepared for analyzing on-line samples of UF
6
gas streams are subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).
Related Definitions:
N/A
Items:
a. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers (ICP/MS);
b. Glow discharge mass spectrometers (GDMS);
c. Thermal ionization mass spectrometers (TIMS);
