(3) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less;
(4) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative or absolute particulate matter loadings;
(5) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor;
(6) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will alert automatically an operator when an increase in relative particulate matter emission over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is observed easily by plant operating personnel;
(7) For positive pressure fabric filter systems, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell. For negative pressure or induced air fabric filters, the bag leak detector must be installed downstream of the fabric filter; and
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(c) If you are using something other than a wet scrubber, activated carbon, selective non-catalytic reduction, an electrostatic precipitator, or a dry scrubber to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.2670, you must install, calibrate (to the manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate the equipment necessary to monitor compliance with the site-specific operating limits established using the procedures in § 60.2680.
(d) If you use activated carbon injection to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, you must measure the minimum sorbent flow rate once per hour.
(e) If you use selective noncatalytic reduction to comply with the emission limitations, you must complete the following:
(1) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.2690, whichever date comes first, ensure that the affected facility does not operate above the maximum charge rate, or below the minimum secondary chamber temperature (if applicable to your CISWI) or the minimum reagent flow rate measured as 3-hour block averages at all times; and
(2) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate, below the minimum secondary chamber temperature and below the minimum reagent flow rate simultaneously constitute a violation of the nitrogen oxides emissions limit.
(f) If you use an electrostatic precipitator to comply with the emission limits of this subpart and you do not use a PM CPMS for monitoring PM compliance, you must monitor the secondary power to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates and maintain the 3-hour block averages at or above the operating limits established during the mercury or particulate matter performance test.
(g) For waste-burning kilns not equipped with a wet scrubber or dry scrubber, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for monitoring hydrogen chloride emissions discharged to the atmosphere, as specified in § 60.2710(j), and record the output of the system. You may substitute use of a HCl CEMS for conducting the HCl initial and annual testing with EPA Method 321 at 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. For units other than waste-burning kilns not equipped with a wet scrubber or dry scrubber, a facility may substitute use of a hydrogen chloride CEMS for conducting the hydrogen chloride initial and annual performance test. For units equipped with a hydrogen chloride CEMS, you are not required to monitor the minimum hydrogen chloride sorbent flow rate, monitoring the minimum scrubber liquor pH, and monitoring minimum injection rate.
(h) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the particulate matter emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of either a particulate matter CEMS or a particulate matter CPMS for conducting the particulate matter annual performance test. For units equipped with a particulate matter CEMS, you are not required to use other CMS monitoring for PM compliance (
e.g.,
bag leak detectors, ESP secondary power, PM scrubber pressure). A facility may also substitute use of a particulate matter CEMS for conducting the PM initial performance test.
(i) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the dioxin/furan emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of a continuous automated sampling system for the dioxin/furan initial and annual performance test. You must record the output of the system and analyze the sample according to EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. This option to use a continuous automated sampling system takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to dioxin/furan from continuous monitors is published in the
Federal Register.
The owner or operator who elects to continuously sample dioxin/furan emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 must install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous automated sampling system and must comply with the requirements specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q). A facility may substitute continuous dioxin/furan monitoring for the minimum sorbent flow rate, if activated carbon sorbent injection is used solely for compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit.
(j) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the mercury emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of a mercury CEMS or and integrated sorbent trap monitoring system for the mercury initial and annual performance test. The owner or operator who elects to continuously measure mercury emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Method 29 or 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or an approved alternative method for measuring mercury emissions, must install, calibrate, maintain and operate the mercury CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoringsystem and must comply with performance specification 12A or performance specification 12B, respectively, and quality assurance procedure 5. For the purposes of emissions calculations when using an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, the mercury concentration determined for each sampling period must be assigned to each hour during the sampling period. For units equipped with a mercury CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, you are not required to monitor the minimum sorbent flow rate, if activated carbon sorbent injection is used solely for compliance with the mercury emission limit. Waste-burning kilns must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a mercury CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system as specified in § 60.2710(j).
(k) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the nitrogen oxides emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of a CEMS for the nitrogen oxides initial and annual performance test to demonstrate compliance with the nitrogen oxides emissions limits. For units equipped with a nitrogen xides CEMS, you are not required to monitor the charge rate, secondary chamber temperature and reagent flow for selective noncatalytic reduction, if applicable:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate a CEMS for measuring nitrogen oxides emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The requirements under performance specification 2 of appendix B of this part, the quality assurance procedure 1 of appendix F of this part and the procedures under § 60.13 must be followed for installation, evaluation and operation of the CEMS; and
(2) Compliance with the emission limit for nitrogen oxides must be determined based on the 30-day rolling average of the hourly emission concentrations using CEMS outlet data, as outlined in § 60.2710(u).
(l) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the sulfur dioxide emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of a CEMS for the sulfur dioxide initial and annual performance test to demonstrate compliance with the sulfur dioxide emissions limits:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate a CEMS for measuring sulfur dioxide emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The requirements under performance specification 2 of appendix B of this part, the quality assurance requirements of procedure 1 of appendix F of this part and the procedures under § 60.13 must be followed for installation, evaluation and operation of the CEMS; and
(2) Compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit shall be determined based on the 30-day rolling average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using CEMS outlet data, as outlined in § 60.2710(u).
(m) For energy recovery units over 10 MMBtu/hr but less than 250 MMBtu/hr annual average heat input rates that do not use a wet scrubber, fabric filter with bag leak detection system, an electrostatic precipitator, particulate matter CEMS, or particulate matter CPMS, you must install, operate, certify and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system according to the procedures in paragraphs (m)(1) through (5) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 60.2670. Energy recovery units that use a particulate matter CEMS to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance according to the procedures in § 60.2730(n) are not required to install a continuous opacity monitoring system and must perform the annual performance tests for opacity consistent with § 60.2710(f):
(1) Install, operate and maintain each continuous opacity monitoring system according to performance specification 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B;
(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous opacity monitoring system according to the requirements in § 60.13 and according to performance specification 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B;
(3) As specified in § 60.13(e)(1), each continuous opacity monitoring system must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period;
(4) Reduce the continuous opacity monitoring system data as specified in § 60.13(h)(1); and
(5) Determine and record all the 6-minute averages (and 1-hour block averages as applicable) collected.
(n) For coal and liquid/gas energy recovery units, incinerators, and small remote incinerators, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain and operate a CEMS for monitoring particulate matter emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility who continuously monitors particulate matter emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or monitoring with a particulate matter CPMS according to paragraph (r) of this section, must install, calibrate, maintain and operate a PM CEMS and must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (10) of this section:
(1) The PM CEMS must be installed, evaluated and operated in accordance with the requirements of performance specification 11 of appendix B of this part and quality assurance requirements of procedure 2 of appendix F of this part and § 60.13;
(2) The initial performance evaluation must be completed no later than 180 days after the final compliance date for meeting the amended emission limitations, as specified under § 60.2690 or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 performance tests, whichever is later;
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the particulate matter emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility must be established according to the procedures and methods
specified in § 60.2710(t)(4)(i) through (iv);
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility must conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter emissions. If PM CEMS are elected for demonstrating compliance, and the initial performance test has not yet been conducted, then initial compliance must be determined by using the CEMS specified in paragraph (n) of this section to measure particulate matter. You must calculate a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, including CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart, using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 of this part;
(5) Continuous compliance with the particulate matter emission limit must be determined based on the 30-day rolling average calculated using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 of the part from the 1-hour arithmetic average of the CEMS outlet data.
(6) At a minimum, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages must be obtained as specified § 60.2735;
(7) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (n)(5) of this section must be expressed in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide)(dry basis) and must be used to calculate the 30-day rolling average emission concentrations. CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart, are not corrected to 7 percent oxygen, and are measured at stack oxygen content. The 1-hour arithmetic averages must be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2);
(8) All valid CEMS data must be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (n)(6) of this section are not met;
(9) The CEMS must be operated according to performance specification 11 in appendix B of this part; and,
(10) Quarterly and yearly accuracy audits and daily drift, system optics, and sample volume checks must be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.
(o) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the carbon monoxide emissions limit, a facility may substitute use of a CEMS for the carbon monoxide initial and annual performance test to demonstrate compliance with the carbon monoxide emissions limits:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring carbon monoxide emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The requirements under performance specification 4A or 4B of appendix B of this part, the quality assurance procedure 1 of appendix F of this part and the procedures under § 60.13 must be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS; and
(2) Compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit shall be determined based on the 30-day rolling average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations, including CEMS data during startup and shutdown as defined in this subpart, using CEMS outlet data, as outlined in § 60.2710(u).
(p) The owner/operator of an affected source with a bypass stack shall install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain and operate a device or method for measuring the use of the bypass stack including date, time and duration.
(q) For energy recovery units with a heat input capacity of 100 MMBtu/hr or greater that do not use a carbon monoxide CEMS, you must install, operate and maintain the continuous oxygen monitoring system as defined in § 60.2875 according to the procedures in paragraphs (q)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) The oxygen analyzer system must be installed by the initial performance test date specified in § 60.2675;
(2) You must operate the oxygen trim system within compliance with paragraph (q)(3) of this section at all times;
(3) You must maintain the oxygen level such that the 30-day rolling average that is established as the operating limit for oxygen according to paragraph (q)(4) of this section is not below the lowest hourly average oxygen concentration measured during the most recent CO performance test; and
(4) You must calculate and record a 30-day rolling average oxygen concentration using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(r) For energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates greater than or equal to 250 MMBtu/hr and waste-burning kilns, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a PM CPMS and record the output of the system as specified in paragraphs (r)(1) through (8) of this section. For other energy recovery units, you may elect to use PM CPMS operated in accordance with this section. PM CPMS are suitable in lieu of using other CMS for monitoring PM compliance (
e.g.,
bag leak detectors, ESP secondary power, PM scrubber pressure):
(1) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain your PM CPMS according to the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan developed in accordance with § 60.2710(l) and (r)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) The operating principle of the PM CPMS must be based on in-stack or extractive light scatter, light scintillation, beta attenuation, or mass accumulation of the exhaust gas or representative sample. The reportable measurement output from the PM CPMS must be expressed as milliamps or the digital signal equivalent;
(ii) The PM CPMS must have a cycle time (
i.e.,
period required to complete sampling, measurement, and reporting for each measurement) no longer than 60 minutes; and
(iii) The PM CPMS must be capable of detecting and responding to particulate matter concentrations increments no greater than 0.5 mg/actual cubic meter.
(2) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, you must adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test according to the procedures specified in § 60.2675.
(3) Collect PM CPMS hourly average output data for all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours. Express the PM CPMS output as milliamps or the digital signal equivalent.
(4) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CPMS output collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours data (milliamps or digital bits).
(5) You must collect data using the PM CPMS at all times the energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (r)(1)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.
(6) You must use all the data collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours in assessing the compliance with your operating limit except:
(i) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions are not used in calculations (report any such periods in your annual deviation report);
(ii) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during out-of-control periods are not used in calculations (report emissions or operating levels and report any such periods in your annual deviation report); and
(iii) Any PM CPMS data recorded during periods of CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart.
(7) You must record and make available upon request results of PM CPMS system performance audits, as well as the dates and duration of periods from when the PM CPMS is out of control
until completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the PM CPMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(8) For any deviation of the 30-day rolling average PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit, you must:
(i) Within 48 hours of the deviation, visually inspect the air pollution control device;
(ii) If inspection of the air pollution control device identifies the cause of the deviation, take corrective action as soon as possible and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value;
(iii) Within 30 days of the deviation or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit and to verify the operation of the emissions control device(s). Within 45 days of the deviation, you must re-establish the CPMS operating limit. You are not required to conduct additional testing for any deviations that occur between the time of the original deviation and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph; and
(iv) PM CPMS deviations leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month process operating period (rolling monthly) constitute a violation of this subpart.
(s) If you use a dry scrubber to comply with the emission limits of this subpart, you must monitor the injection rate of each sorbent and maintain the 3-hour block averages at or above the operating limits established during the hydrogen chloride performance test.
(t) If you are required to monitor clinker production because you comply with the production-rate based mercury limit for your waste-burning kiln, you must:
(1) Determine hourly clinker production by one of two methods:
(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates in tons-mass per hour of the amount of clinker produced. The system of measuring hourly clinker production must be maintained within ±5 percent accuracy, or
(ii) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates in tons-mass per hour of the amount of feed to the kiln. The system of measuring feed must be maintained within ±5 percent accuracy. Calculate your hourly clinker production rate using a kiln-specific feed to clinker ratio based on reconciled clinker production determined for accounting purposes and recorded feed rates. Update this ratio monthly. Note that if this ratio changes at clinker reconciliation, you must use the new ratio going forward, but you do not have to retroactively change clinker production rates previously estimated.
(2) Determine the accuracy of the system of measuring hourly clinker production (or feed mass flow if applicable) before the final compliance date of this rule and during each quarter of source operation.
(3) Conduct accuracy checks in accordance with the procedures outlined in your site-specific monitoring plan under § 60.2710(l).
§ 60.2735
Is there a minimum amount of monitoring data I must obtain?
For each continuous monitoring system required or optionally allowed under § 60.2730, you must monitor and collect data according to this section:
(a) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times compliance is required except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods (as specified in § 60.2770(o)), and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to effect monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system
malfunctions or out-of-control periods and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
(b) You may not use data recorded during the monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of control periods, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must use all the data collected during all other periods, including data normalized for above scale readings, in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(c) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments, failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.

# Model Rule—Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 60.2740
What records must I keep?
You must maintain the items (as applicable) as specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) through (w) of this section for a period of at least 5 years:
(a) Calendar date of each record;
(b) Records of the data described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section:
(1) The CISWI charge dates, times, weights, and hourly charge rates;
(2) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;
(3) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system every 15 minutes of operation or amperage to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;
(4) Liquor pH as introduced to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;
(5) For affected CISWIs that establish operating limits for controls other than wet scrubbers under § 60.2675(d) through (g) or § 60.2680, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits. For energy recovery units using activated carbon injection or a dry scrubber, you must also maintain records of the load fraction and corresponding sorbent injection rate records; and
(6) If a fabric filter is used to comply with the emission limitations, you must record the date, time, and duration of each alarm and the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm sounds, calculated as specified in § 60.2675(c).
(7) If you monitor clinker production in accordance with § 60.2730(t):
(i) Hourly clinker rate produced if clinker production is measured directly;
(ii) Hourly measured kiln feed rates and calculated clinker production rates if clinker production is not measured directly;
(iii) 30-day rolling averages for mercury in pounds per million tons of clinker produced;
(iv) The initial and quarterly accuracy of the system of measruing hourly clinker production (or feed mass flow).
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Identification of calendar dates and times for which data show a deviation from the operating limits in table 3 of this subpart or a deviation from other operating limits established under § 60.2675(d) through (g) or § 60.2680 with a description of the deviations, reasons for such deviations, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(f) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable. Retain a copy of the complete test report including calculations.
(g) Records showing the names of CISWI operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.2660(a) as required by § 60.2660(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(h) Records showing the names of the CISWI operators who have completed the operator training requirements
under § 60.2635, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.2645, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.2650 or § 60.2655. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(i) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.
(j) Records of calibration of any monitoring devices as required under § 60.2730.
(k) Equipment vendor specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.
(l) The information listed in § 60.2660(a).
(m) On a daily basis, keep a log of the quantity of waste burned and the types of waste burned (always required).
(n) Maintain records of the annual air pollution control device inspections that are required for each CISWI subject to the emissions limits in table 2 of this subpart or tables 6 through 9 of this subpart, any required maintenance and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the state regulatory agency.
(o) For continuously monitored pollutants or parameters, you must document and keep a record of the following parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems. If you monitor emissions with a CEMS, you must indicate which data are CEMS data during startup and shutdown:
(1) All 6-minute average levels of opacity;
(2) All 1-hour average concentrations of sulfur dioxide emissions;
(3) All 1-hour average concentrations of nitrogen oxides emissions;
(4) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions;
(5) All 1-hour average concentrations of particulate matter emissions;
(6) All 1-hour average concentrations of mercury emissions;
(7) All 1-hour average concentrations of HCl CEMS outputs;
(8) All 1-hour average percent oxygen concentrations; and
(9) All 1-hour average PM CPMS readings or particulate matter CEMS outputs.
(p) Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times and durations.
(q) If you choose to stack test less frequently than annually, consistent with § 60.2720(a) through (c), you must keep annual records that document that your emissions in the previous stack test(s) were less than 75 percent of the applicable emission limit and document that there was no change in source operations including fuel composition and operation of air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past year.
(r) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(s) Records of all required maintenance performed on the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(t) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(u) For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to § 241.3(b)(1) of this chapter, you must keep a record which documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria under § 241.3(d)(1). If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to § 241.3(b)(4), you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfies the definition of processing in § 241.2 and each of the legitimacy criteria in § 241.3(d)(1) of this chapter. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under § 241.3(c), you must keep a record that documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process.
For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials as fuel per § 241.4, you must keep records documenting that the material is a listed non-waste under § 241.4(a).
(v) Records of the criteria used to establish that the unit qualifies as a small power production facility under section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)) and that the waste material the unit is proposed to burn is homogeneous.
(w) Records of the criteria used to establish that the unit qualifies as a cogeneration facility under section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)) and that the waste material the unit is proposed to burn is homogeneous.
§ 60.2745
Where and in what format must I keep my records?
All records must be available onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
§ 60.2750
What reports must I submit?
See table 5 of this subpart for a summary of the reporting requirements.
§ 60.2755
When must I submit my waste management plan?
You must submit the waste management plan no later than the date specified in table 1 of this subpart for submittal of the final control plan.
§ 60.2760
What information must I submit following my initial performance test?
You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports must be signed by the facilities manager:
(a) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained under § 60.2700, as applicable;
(b) The values for the site-specific operating limits established in § 60.2675 or § 60.2680; and
(c) If you are using a fabric filter to comply with the emission limitations, documentation that a bag leak detection system has been installed and is being operated, calibrated, and maintained as required by § 60.2730(b).
§ 60.2765
When must I submit my annual report?
You must submit an annual report no later than 12 months following the submission of the information in § 60.2760. You must submit subsequent reports no more than 12 months following the previous report. (If the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Clean Air Act, you may be required by the permit to submit these reports more frequently.)
§ 60.2770
What information must I include in my annual report?
The annual report required under § 60.2765 must include the items listed in paragraphs (a) through (p) of this section. If you have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations, you must also submit deviation reports as specified in §§ 60.2775, 60.2780, and 60.2785:
(a) Company name and address;
(b) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report;
(c) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period;
(d) The values for the operating limits established pursuant to § 60.2675 or § 60.2680;
(e) If no deviation from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you has been reported, a statement that there was no deviation from the emission limitations or operating limits during the reporting period;
(f) The highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average (30-day average for energy recovery units), as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported;
(g) Information recorded under § 60.2740(b)(6) and (c) through (e) for the calendar year being reported;
(h) For each performance test conducted during the reporting period, if any performance test is conducted, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested and the date that such performance test was conducted. Submit, following the procedure specified in
§ 60.2795(b)(1), the performance test report no later than the date that you submit the annual report;
(i) If you met the requirements of § 60.2720(a) or (b), and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must state that you met the requirements of § 60.2720(a) or (b), and, therefore, you were not required to conduct a performance test during the reporting period;
(j) Documentation of periods when all qualified CISWI operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks;
(k) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction that occurred during the reporting period and that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction;
(l) For each deviation from an emission or operating limitation that occurs for a CISWI for which you are not using a CMS to comply with the emission or operating limitations in this subpart, the annual report must contain the following information:
(1) The total operating time of the CISWI at which the deviation occurred during the reporting period; and
(2) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.
(m) If there were periods during which the continuous monitoring system, including the CEMS, was out of control as specified in paragraph (o) of this section, the annual report must contain the following information for each deviation from an emission or operating limitation occurring for a CISWI for which you are using a continuous monitoring system to comply with the emission and operating limitations in this subpart:
(1) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped;
(2) The date, time, and duration that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks;
(3) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken;
(4) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of malfunction or during another period;
(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period;
(6) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes;
(7) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the CISWI at which the continuous monitoring system downtime occurred during that reporting period;
(8) An identification of each parameter and pollutant that was monitored at the CISWI;
(9) A brief description of the CISWI;
(10) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system;
(11) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit; and
(12) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
(n) If there were periods during which the continuous monitoring system, including the CEMS, was not out of control as specified in paragraph (o) of this section, a statement that there were not periods during which the continuous monitoring system was out of control during the reporting period.
(o) A continuous monitoring system is out of control if any of the following occur:
(1) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration
drift exceeds two times the applicable calibration drift specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard;
(2) The continuous monitoring system fails a performance test audit (
e.g.,
cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit; and
(3) The continuous opacity monitoring system calibration drift exceeds two times the limit in the applicable performance specification in the relevant standard.
(p) For energy recovery units, include the annual heat input and average annual heat input rate of all fuels being burned in the unit to verify which subcategory of energy recovery unit applies.
§ 60.2775
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations?
(a) You must submit a deviation report if any recorded 3-hour average (30-day average for energy recovery units or for PM CPMS) parameter level is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart, if the bag leak detection system alarm sounds for more than 5 percent of the operating time for the 6-month reporting period, if a performance test was conducted that deviated from any emission limitation, if a 30-day average measured using a CEMS deviated from any emission limitation.
(b) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).
§ 60.2780
What must I include in the deviation report?
In each report required under § 60.2775, for any pollutant or parameter that deviated from the emission limitations or operating limits specified in this subpart, include the four items described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section:
(a) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limitations or operating limit requirements;
(b) The averaged and recorded data for those dates;
(c) Durations and causes of the following:
(1) Each deviation from emission limitations or operating limits and your corrective actions; and
(2) Bypass events and your corrective actions.
(d) A copy of the operating limit monitoring data during each deviation and for any test report that documents the emission levels the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested and the date that the performance test was conducted. Submit, following the procedure specified in § 60.2795(b)(1), the performance test report no later than the date that you submit the deviation report.
§ 60.2785
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the requirement to have a qualified operator accessible?
(a) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A statement of what caused the deviation;
(ii) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible; and
(iii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.
(2) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible;
(ii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible; and
(iii) Request approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the CISWI.
(b) If your unit was shut down by the Administrator, under the provisions of § 60.2665(b)(2), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator,
you must notify the Administrator that you are resuming operation once a qualified operator is accessible.
§ 60.2790
Are there any other notifications or reports that I must submit?
(a) Yes. You must submit notifications as provided by § 60.7.
(b) If you cease combusting solid waste but continue to operate, you must provide 30 days prior notice of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch, consistent with § 60.2710(a). The notification must identify:
(1) The name of the owner or operator of the CISWI, the location of the source, the emissions unit(s) that will cease burning solid waste, and the date of the notice;
(2) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart, and any 40 CFR part 63 subpart and subcategory that will be applicable after you cease combusting solid waste;
(3) The fuel(s), non-waste material(s) and solid waste(s) the CISWI is currently combusting and has combusted over the past 6 months, and the fuel(s) or non-waste materials the unit will commence combusting;
(4) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits; and
(5) The date upon which you will cease combusting solid waste, and the date (if different) that you intend for any new requirements to become applicable (
i.e.,
the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch), consistent with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
§ 60.2795
In what form can I submit my reports?
(a) Submit initial, annual and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates. Beginning on April 16, 2021 or once the reporting form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, whichever is later, you must submit subsequent reports on or before the submittal dates to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Use the appropriate electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chief/cedri/index.html
). When the date forms become available in CEDRI will be listed on the CEDRI website. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
(b) Submit results of each performance test and CEMS performance evaluation required by this subpart as follows:
(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (
see
§ 60.8) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section:
(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert__info.html
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph; and
(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the
EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.
(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each continuous emissions monitoring system performance evaluation you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section:
(i) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX. Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. If you claim that some of the performance evaluation information being submitted is CBI, you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph; and
(ii) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.
(c) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit
a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
§ 60.2800
Can reporting dates be changed?
If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.

# Model Rule—Title V Operating Permits
§ 60.2805
Am I required to apply for and obtain a Title V operating permit for my unit?
Yes. Each CISWI and ACI subject to standards under this subpart must operate pursuant to a permit issued under Clean Air Act sections 129(e) and Title V.

# Model Rule—Air Curtain Incinerators (ACIs)
§ 60.2810
What is an air curtain incinerator?
(a) An ACI operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open chamber or open pit in which combustion occurs. Incinerators of this type can be constructed above or below ground and with or without refractory walls and floor. Air curtain incinerators are not to be confused with conventional combustion devices with enclosed fireboxes and controlled air technology such as mass burn, modular, and fluidized bed combustors.
(b) Air curtain incinerators that burn only the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are only required to meet the requirements under § 60.2805 and under “Air Curtain Incinerators” (§§ 60.2810 through 60.2870):
(1) 100 percent wood waste;
(2) 100 percent clean lumber; and
(3) 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste.
§ 60.2815
What are my requirements for meeting increments of progress and achieving final compliance?
If you plan to achieve compliance more than 1 year following the effective date of state plan approval, you must meet the two increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Submit a final control plan; and
(b) Achieve final compliance.
§ 60.2820
When must I complete each increment of progress?
Table 1 of this subpart specifies compliance dates for each of the increments of progress.
§ 60.2825
What must I include in the notifications of achievement of increments of progress?
Your notification of achievement of increments of progress must include the three items described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:
(a) Notification that the increment of progress has been achieved;
(b) Any items required to be submitted with each increment of progress (see § 60.2840); and
(c) Signature of the owner or operator of the incinerator.
§ 60.2830
When must I submit the notifications of achievement of increments of progress?
Notifications for achieving increments of progress must be postmarked no later than 10 business days after the compliance date for the increment.
§ 60.2835
What if I do not meet an increment of progress?
If you fail to meet an increment of progress, you must submit a notification to the Administrator postmarked within 10 business days after the date for that increment of progress in table 1 of this subpart. You must inform the Administrator that you did not meet the increment, and you must continue to submit reports each subsequent calendar month until the increment of progress is met.
§ 60.2840
How do I comply with the increment of progress for submittal of a control plan?
For your control plan increment of progress, you must satisfy the two requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Submit the final control plan, including a description of any devices for air pollution control and any process changes that you will use to comply with the emission limitations and other requirements of this subpart; and
(b) Maintain an onsite copy of the final control plan.
§ 60.2845
How do I comply with the increment of progress for achieving final compliance?
For the final compliance increment of progress, you must complete all process changes and retrofit construction of control devices, as specified in the final control plan, so that, if the affected incinerator is brought online, all necessary process changes and air pollution control devices would operate as designed.
§ 60.2850
What must I do if I close my air curtain incinerator and then restart it?
(a) If you close your incinerator but will reopen it prior to the final compliance date in your state plan, you must meet the increments of progress specified in § 60.2815.
(b) If you close your incinerator but will restart it after your final compliance date, you must complete emission control retrofits and meet the emission limitations on the date your incinerator restarts operation.
§ 60.2855
What must I do if I plan to permanently close my air curtain incinerator and not restart it?
If you plan to close your incinerator rather than comply with the state plan, submit a closure notification, including the date of closure, to the Administrator by the date your final control plan is due.
§ 60.2860
What are the emission limitations for air curtain incinerators?
After the date the initial stack test is required or completed (whichever is earlier), you must meet the limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Maintain opacity to less than or equal to 10 percent opacity (as determined by the average of three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values), except as described in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(b) Maintain opacity to less than or equal to 35 percent opacity (as determined by the average of three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values) during the startup period that is within the first 30 minutes of operation.
§ 60.2865
How must I monitor opacity for air curtain incinerators?
(a) Use Method 9 of appendix A of this part to determine compliance with the opacity limitation.
(b) Conduct an initial test for opacity as specified in § 60.8 no later than 180 days after your final compliance date.
(c) After the initial test for opacity, conduct annual tests no more than 12 calendar months following the date of your previous test.
§ 60.2870
What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators?
(a) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests onsite in either paper copy or electronic format,
unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years.
(b) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's onsite review.
(c) Submit an initial report no later than 60 days following the initial opacity test that includes the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) The types of materials you plan to combust in your ACI; and
(2) The results (as determined by the average of three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values) of the initial opacity tests.
(d) Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.
(e) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date and keep a copy onsite for a period of 5 years.

# Model Rule—Definitions
§ 60.2875
What definitions must I know?
Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and subparts A and B of this part.
30-day rolling average
means the arithmetic mean of the previous 720 hours of valid operating data. Valid data excludes periods when this unit is not operating. The 720 hours should be consecutive, but not necessarily continuous if operations are intermittent.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or his/her authorized representative or Administrator of a State Air Pollution Control Agency.
Agricultural waste
means vegetative agricultural materials such as nut and grain hulls and chaff (
e.g.,
almond, walnut, peanut, rice, and wheat), bagasse, orchard prunings, corn stalks, coffee bean hulls and grounds, and other vegetative waste materials generated as a result of agricultural operations.
Air curtain incinerator (ACI)
means an incinerator that operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open chamber or pit in which combustion occurs. Incinerators of this type can be constructed above or below ground and with or without refractory walls and floor. Air curtain incinerators are not to be confused with conventional combustion devices with enclosed fireboxes and controlled air technology such as mass burn, modular, and fluidized bed combustors.
Annual heat input
means the heat input for the 12 months preceding the compliance demonstration.
Auxiliary fuel
means natural gas, liquified petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.
Average annual heat input rate
means annual heat input divided by the hours of operation for the 12 months preceding the compliance demonstration.
Bag leak detection system
means an instrument that is capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (
i.e.,
baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Burn-off oven
means any rack reclamation unit, part reclamation unit, or drum reclamation unit. A burn-off oven is not an incinerator, waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Bypass stack
means a device used for discharging combustion gases to avoid severe damage to the air pollution control device or other equipment.
Calendar quarter
means three consecutive months (nonoverlapping) beginning on: January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.
Calendar year
means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.
CEMS data during startup and shutdown
means the following:
(1) For incinerators and small remote incinerators: CEMS data collected during the first hours of operation of a CISWI startup from a cold start until waste is fed into the unit and the hours of operation following the cessation of waste material being fed to the CISWI during a unit shutdown. For each startup event, the length of time that CEMS data may be claimed as being CEMS data during startup must be 48 operating hours or less. For each shutdown event, the length of time that CEMS
data may be claimed as being CEMS data during shutdown must be 24 operating hours or less;
(2) For energy recovery units: CEMS data collected during the startup or shutdown periods of operation. Startup begins with either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler or process heater for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or heat) for heating, cooling or process purposes, or producing electricity, or the firing of fuel in a boiler or process heater for any purpose after a shutdown event. Startup ends four hours after when the boiler or process heater makes useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) for heating, cooling, or process purposes, or generates electricity, whichever is earlier. Shutdown begins when the boiler or process heater no longer makes useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) for heating, cooling, or process purposes and/or generates electricity or when no fuel is being fed to the boiler or process heater, whichever is earlier. Shutdown ends when the boiler or process heater no longer makes useful thermal energy (such as steam or heat) for heating, cooling, or process purposes and/or generates electricity, and no fuel is being combusted in the boiler or process heater; and
(3) For waste-burning kilns: CEMS data collected during the periods of kiln operation that do not include normal operations. Startup means the time from when a shutdown kiln first begins firing fuel until it begins producing clinker. Startup begins when a shutdown kiln turns on the induced draft fan and begins firing fuel in the main burner. Startup ends when feed is being continuously introduced into the kiln for at least 120 minutes or when the feed rate exceeds 60 percent of the kiln design limitation rate, whichever occurs first. Shutdown means the cessation of kiln operation. Shutdown begins when feed to the kiln is halted and ends when continuous kiln rotation ceases.
Chemical recovery unit
means combustion units burning materials to recover chemical constituents or to produce chemical compounds where there is an existing commercial market for such recovered chemical constituents or compounds. A chemical recovery unit is not an incinerator, a waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart. The following seven types of units are considered chemical recovery units:
(1) Units burning only pulping liquors (
i.e.,
black liquor) that are reclaimed in a pulping liquor recovery process and reused in the pulping process;
(2) Units burning only spent sulfuric acid used to produce virgin sulfuric acid;
(3) Units burning only wood or coal feedstock for the production of charcoal;
(4) Units burning only manufacturing byproduct streams/residue containing catalyst metals that are reclaimed and reused as catalysts or used to produce commercial grade catalysts;
(5) Units burning only coke to produce purified carbon monoxide that is used as an intermediate in the production of other chemical compounds;
(6) Units burning only hydrocarbon liquids or solids to produce hydrogen, carbon monoxide, synthesis gas, or other gases for use in other manufacturing processes; and
(7) Units burning only photographic film to recover silver.
Chemotherapeutic waste
means waste material resulting from the production or use of antineoplastic agents used for the purpose of stopping or reversing the growth of malignant cells.
Clean lumber
means wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products. Clean lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or pressure-treated by compounds such as chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote.
Commercial and industrial solid waste incineration unit (CISWI)
means any distinct operating unit of any commercial or industrial facility that combusts, or has combusted in the preceding 6 months, any solid waste as that term is defined in 40 CFR part 241. If the operating unit burns materials other than traditional fuels as defined in § 241.2 that have been discarded, and you do not keep and produce records as required by § 60.2740(u), the operating unit is a CISWI. While not all CISWIs
will include all of the following components, a CISWI includes, but is not limited to, the solid waste feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The CISWI does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack. The CISWI boundary starts at the solid waste hopper (if applicable) and extends through two areas: The combustion unit flue gas system, which ends immediately after the last combustion chamber or after the waste heat recovery equipment, if any; and the combustion unit bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The CISWI includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system.
Contained gaseous material
means gases that are in a container when that container is combusted.
Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of emissions.
Continuous monitoring system (CMS)
means the total equipment, required under the emission monitoring sections in applicable subparts, used to sample and condition (if applicable), to analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters. A particulate matter continuous parameter monitoring system (PM CPMS) is a type of CMS.
Cyclonic burn barrel
means a combustion device for waste materials that is attached to a 55 gallon, open-head drum. The device consists of a lid, which fits onto and encloses the drum, and a blower that forces combustion air into the drum in a cyclonic manner to enhance the mixing of waste material and air. A cyclonic burn barrel is not an incinerator, a waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements; and
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Dioxins/furans
means tetra-through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Discard
means, for purposes of this subpart and 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDDD, only, burned in an incineration unit without energy recovery.
Drum reclamation unit
means a unit that burns residues out of drums (
e.g.,
55 gallon drums) so that the drums can be reused.
Dry scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control system that injects dry alkaline sorbent (dry injection) or sprays an alkaline sorbent (spray dryer) to react with and neutralize acid gas in the exhaust stream forming a dry powder material. Sorbent injection systems in fluidized bed boilers and process heaters are included in this definition. A dry scrubber is a dry control system.
Energy recovery
means the process of recovering thermal energy from combustion for useful purposes such as steam generation or process heating.
Energy recovery unit
means a combustion unit combusting solid waste (as that term is defined by the Administrator in 40 CFR part 241) for energy recovery. Energy recovery units include units that would be considered boilers and process heaters if they did not combust solid waste.
Energy recovery unit designed to burn biomass (Biomass)
means an energy recovery unit that burns solid waste, biomass, and non-coal solid materials but less than 10 percent coal, on a heat input basis on an annual average, either alone or in combination with liquid waste, liquid fuel or gaseous fuels.
Energy recovery unit designed to burn coal (Coal)
means an energy recovery unit that burns solid waste and at least 10 percent coal on a heat input basis on an annual average, either alone or in
combination with liquid waste, liquid fuel or gaseous fuels.
Energy recovery unit designed to burn liquid waste materials and gas (Liquid/gas)
means an energy recovery unit that burns a liquid waste with liquid or gaseous fuels not combined with any solid fuel or waste materials.
Energy recovery unit designed to burn solid materials (Solids)
includes energy recovery units designed to burn coal and energy recovery units designed to burn biomass.
Fabric filter
means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse.
Foundry sand thermal reclamation unit
means a type of part reclamation unit that removes coatings that are on foundry sand. A foundry sand thermal reclamation unit is not an incinerator, a waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Incinerator
means any furnace used in the process of combusting solid waste (as that term is defined by the Administrator in 40 CFR part 241) for the purpose of reducing the volume of the waste by removing combustible matter. Incinerator designs include single chamber and two-chamber.
In-line coal mill
means those coal mills using kiln exhaust gases in their process. Coal mills with a heat source other than the kiln or coal mills using exhaust gases from the clinker cooler alone are not an in-line coal mill.
In-line kiln/raw mill
means a system in a Portland Cement production process where a dry kiln system is integrated with the raw mill so that all or a portion of the kiln exhaust gases are used to perform the drying operation of the raw mill, with no auxiliary heat source used. In this system the kiln is capable of operating without the raw mill operating, but the raw mill cannot operate without the kiln gases, and consequently, the raw mill does not generate a separate exhaust gas stream.
Kiln
means an oven or furnace, including any associated preheater or precalciner devices, in-line raw mills, in-line coal mills or alkali bypasses used for processing a substance by burning, firing or drying. Kilns include cement kilns that produce clinker by heating limestone and other materials for subsequent production of Portland Cement. Because the alkali bypass, in-line raw mill and in-line coal mill are considered an integral part of the kiln, the kiln emissions limits also apply to the exhaust of the alkali bypass, in-line raw mill and in-line coal mill.
Laboratory analysis unit
means units that burn samples of materials for the purpose of chemical or physical analysis. A laboratory analysis unit is not an incinerator, waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Load fraction
means the actual heat input of an energy recovery unit divided by heat input during the performance test that established the minimum sorbent injection rate or minimum activated carbon injection rate, expressed as a fraction (
e.g.,
for 50 percent load the load fraction is 0.5).
Low-level radioactive waste
means waste material which contains radioactive nuclides emitting primarily beta or gamma radiation, or both, in concentrations or quantities that exceed applicable federal or state standards for unrestricted release. Low-level radioactive waste is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)(2)).
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Minimum voltage or amperage
means 90 percent of the lowest test-run average voltage or amperage to the electrostatic precipitator measured during the most recent particulate matter or mercury performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits.
Modification
or
modified CISWI
means a CISWI that has been changed later than August 7, 2013, and that meets one of two criteria:
(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the CISWI (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). To determine what systems are within the boundary of the CISWI used to calculate these costs, see the definition of CISWI; and
(2) Any physical change in the CISWI or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.
Municipal solid waste or municipal-type solid waste
means household, commercial/retail, or institutional waste. Household waste includes material discarded by residential dwellings, hotels, motels, and other similar permanent or temporary housing. Commercial/retail waste includes material discarded by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, nonmanufacturing activities at industrial facilities, and other similar establishments or facilities. Institutional waste includes materials discarded by schools, by hospitals (nonmedical), by nonmanufacturing activities at prisons and government facilities, and other similar establishments or facilities. Household, commercial/retail, and institutional waste does include yard waste and refuse-derived fuel. Household, commercial/retail, and institutional waste does not include used oil; sewage sludge; wood pallets; construction, renovation, and demolition wastes (which include railroad ties and telephone poles); clean wood; industrial process or manufacturing wastes; medical waste; or motor vehicles (including motor vehicle parts or vehicle fluff).
Opacity
means the degree to which emissions reduce the transmission of light and obscure the view of an object in the background.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any amount of solid waste is combusted at any time in the CISWI.
Oxygen analyzer system
means all equipment required to determine the oxygen content of a gas stream and used to monitor oxygen in the boiler or process heater flue gas, boiler/process heater, firebox, or other appropriate location. This definition includes oxygen trim systems and certified oxygen CEMS. The source owner or operator is responsible to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the oxygen analyzer system in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
Oxygen trim system
means a system of monitors that is used to maintain excess air at the desired level in a combustion device over its operating range. A typical system consists of a flue gas oxygen and/or carbon monoxide monitor that automatically provides a feedback signal to the combustion air controller or draft controller.
Part reclamation unit
means a unit that burns coatings off parts (
e.g.,
tools, equipment) so that the parts can be reconditioned and reused.
Particulate matter
means total particulate matter emitted from CISWIs as measured by Method 5 or Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
Pathological waste
means waste material consisting of only human or animal remains, anatomical parts, and/or tissue, the bags/containers used to collect and transport the waste material, and animal bedding (if applicable).
Performance evaluation
means the conduct of relative accuracy testing, calibration error testing, and other measurements used in validating the continuous monitoring system data.
Performance test
means the collection of data resulting from the execution of a test method (usually three emission test runs) used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant emission standard as specified in the performance test section of the relevant standard.
Process change
means any of the following physical or operational changes:
(1) A physical change (maintenance activities excluded) to the CISWI which may increase the emission rate of any air pollutant to which a standard applies;
(2) An operational change to the CISWI where a new type of non-hazardous secondary material is being combusted;
(3) A physical change (maintenance activities excluded) to the air pollution control devices used to comply with the emission limits for the CISWI (
e.g.,
replacing an electrostatic precipitator with a fabric filter); and
(4) An operational change to the air pollution control devices used to comply with the emission limits for the affected CISWI (
e.g.,
change in the sorbent injection rate used for activated carbon injection).
Rack reclamation unit
means a unit that burns the coatings off racks used to hold small items for application of a coating. The unit burns the coating overspray off the rack so the rack can be reused.
Raw mill
means a ball or tube mill, vertical roller mill or other size reduction equipment, that is not part of an in-line kiln/raw mill, used to grind feed to the appropriate size. Moisture may be added or removed from the feed during the grinding operation. If the raw mill is used to remove moisture from feed materials, it is also, by definition, a raw material dryer. The raw mill also includes the air separator associated with the raw mill.
Reconstruction
means rebuilding a CISWI and meeting two criteria:
(1) The reconstruction begins on or after August 7, 2013; and
(2) The cumulative cost of the construction over the life of the incineration unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the CISWI (not including land) updated to current costs (current dollars). To determine what systems are within the boundary of the CISWI used to calculate these costs, see the definition of CISWI.
Refuse-derived fuel
means a type of municipal solid waste produced by processing municipal solid waste through shredding and size classification. This includes all classes of refuse-derived fuel including two fuels:
(1) Low-density fluff refuse-derived fuel through densified refuse-derived fuel; and
(2) Pelletized refuse-derived fuel.
Responsible official
means one of the following:
(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities applying for or subject to a permit and either:
(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or
(ii) The delegation of authority to such representatives is approved in advance by the permitting authority;
(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or the proprietor, respectively;
(3) For a municipality, state, federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (
e.g.,
a Regional Administrator of EPA); or
(4) For affected facilities:
(i) The designated representative in so far as actions, standards, requirements, or prohibitions under Title IV of the Clean Air Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder are concerned; or
(ii) The designated representative for any other purposes under part 60.
Shutdown
means, for incinerators and small, remote incinerators, the period of time after all waste has been combusted in the primary chamber.
Small, remote incinerator
means an incinerator that combusts solid waste (as that term is defined by the Administrator in 40 CFR part 241) and combusts 3 tons per day or less solid waste and is more than 25 miles driving distance to the nearest municipal solid waste landfill.
Soil treatment unit
means a unit that thermally treats petroleum-contaminated soils for the sole purpose of site remediation. A soil treatment unit may be direct-fired or indirect fired. A soil treatment unit is not an incinerator, a waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Solid waste
means the term solid waste as defined in 40 CFR 241.2.
Solid waste incineration unit
means a distinct operating unit of any facility which combusts any solid waste (as that term is defined by the Administrator in 40 CFR part 241) material from commercial or industrial establishments or the general public (including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels). Such term does not include incinerators or other units required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. The term “solid waste incineration unit” does not include:
(1) Materials recovery facilities (including primary or secondary smelters) which combust waste for the primary purpose of recovering metals;
(2) Qualifying small power production facilities, as defined in section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 769(17)(C)), or qualifying cogeneration facilities, as defined in section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)), which burn homogeneous waste (such as units which burn tires or used oil, but not including refuse-derived fuel) for the production of electric energy or in the case of qualifying cogeneration facilities which burn homogeneous waste for the production of electric energy and steam or forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for industrial, commercial, heating or cooling purposes; or
(3) Air curtain incinerators provided that such incinerators only burn wood wastes, yard wastes and clean lumber and that such air curtain incinerators comply with opacity limitations to be established by the Administrator by rule.
Space heater
means a unit that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 279.23. A space heater is not an incinerator, a waste-burning kiln, an energy recovery unit or a small, remote incinerator under this subpart.
Standard conditions,
when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).
Startup period
means, for incinerators and small, remote incinerators, the period of time between the activation of the system and the first charge to the unit.
Useful thermal energy
means energy (
i.e.,
steam, hot water, or process heat) that meets the minimum operating temperature and/or pressure required by any energy use system that uses energy provided by the affected energy recovery unit.
Waste-burning kiln
means a kiln that is heated, in whole or in part, by combusting solid waste (as the term is defined by the Administrator in 40 CFR part 241). Secondary materials used in Portland cement kilns shall not be deemed to be combusted unless they are introduced into the flame zone in the hot end of the kiln or mixed with the precalciner fuel.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that uses an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquor to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
Wood waste
means untreated wood and untreated wood products, including tree stumps (whole or chipped), trees, tree limbs (whole or chipped), bark, sawdust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings. Wood waste does not include:
(1) Grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs from residential, commercial/retail, institutional, or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other private or public lands;
(2) Construction, renovation, or demolition wastes; or
(3) Clean lumber.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Increments of Progress and Compliance Schedules
Comply with these increments of progress
By these dates
1
Increment 1-Submit final control plan
(Dates to be specified in state plan).
Increment 2-Final compliance
(Dates to be specified in state plan).
2
1
Site-specific schedules can be used at the discretion of the state.
2
The date can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of state plan approval or December 1, 2005 for CISWIs that commenced construction on or before November 30, 1999. The date can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018, for CISWIs that commenced construction on or before June 4, 2010.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to Incinerators Before [Date To Be Specified in State Plan]
1
For the air pollutant
You must meet this
emission limitation
2
Using this averaging time
3
And determining compliance using this method
3
Cadmium
0.004 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 29 of appendix A of this part).
Carbon monoxide
157 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 10, 10A, or 10B, of appendix A of this part).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
0.41 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 23 of appendix A of this part).
Hydrogen chloride
62 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 26, collect a minimum volume of 120 liters per run. For Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter per run)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Lead
0.04 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 29 of appendix A of this part).
Mercury
0.47 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 29 or 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
4
Opacity
10 percent
Three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values
Performance test (Method 9 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Nitrogen oxides
388 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Methods 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Particulate matter
70 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 5 or 29 of appendix A of this part).
Sulfur dioxide
20 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6c of appendix A of this part).
1
Applies only to incinerators subject to the CISWI standards through a state plan or the Federal plan prior to June 4, 2010. The date specified in the state plan can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018.
2
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
3
In lieu of performance testing, you may use a CEMS or, for mercury, an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance with an emissions limit, as long as you comply with the CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system requirements applicable to the specific pollutant in §§ 60.2710 and 60.2730. As prescribed in § 60.2710(u), if you use a CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an emissions limit, your averaging time is a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations.
4
Incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Operating Limits for Wet Scrubbers
For these operating
parameters
You must establish these operating limits
And monitor using these minimum frequencies
Data
measurement
Data
recording
Averaging time
Charge rate
Maximum charge rate
Continuous
Every hour
Daily (batch units). 3-hour rolling (continuous and intermittent units).
1
Pressure drop across the wet scrubber or amperage to wet scrubber
Minimum pressure drop or amperage
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
1
Scrubber liquor flow rate
Minimum flow rate
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
1
Scrubber liquor pH
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
1
1
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan isomer
Toxic
equivalency
factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.5
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.001
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.5
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.05
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.001
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Summary of Reporting Requirements
1
Report
Due date
Contents
Reference
Waste Management Plan
No later than the date specified in table 1 for submittal of the final control plan
• Waste management plan
§ 60.2755.
Initial Test Report
No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
• Complete test report for the initial performance test
• The values for the site-specific operating limits
• Installation of bag leak detection systems for fabric filters
§ 60.2760.
Annual report
No later than 12 months following the submission of the initial test report. Subsequent reports are to be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report
• Name and address
• Statement and signature by responsible official
• Date of report
• Values for the operating limits
• Highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest 3-hour average, as applicable, (or 30-day average, if applicable) for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported
• If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of the test
• If a performance test was not conducted during the reporting period, a statement that the requirements of § 60.2720(a) were met
• Documentation of periods when all qualified CISWI operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours but less than 2 weeks
• If you are conducting performance tests once every 3 years consistent with § 60.2720(a), the date of the last 2 performance tests, a comparison of the emission level you achieved in the last 2 performance tests to the 75 percent emission limit threshold required in § 60.2720(a) and a statement as to whether there have been any operational changes since the last performance test that could increase emissions
• Any malfunction, deviation, or continuous monitoring system out of control periods information as specified in § 60.2770(k) through (o)
• Fuel input information for energy recovery unit subcategory verification as specified in § 60.2770(p)
§§ 60.2765 and 60.2770.
Emission limitation or operating limit deviation report
By August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year. By February 1 of the following year for data collected during the second half of the calendar year
• Dates and times of deviation
• Averaged and recorded data for those dates
• Duration and causes of each deviation and the corrective actions taken
• Copy of operating limit monitoring data and any test reports
• Dates, times and causes for monitor downtime incidents
§ 60.2775 and 60.2780.
Qualified Operator Deviation Notification
Within 10 days of deviation
• Statement of cause of deviation
• Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator
• The date a qualified operator will be accessible
§ 60.2785(a)(1).
Qualified Operator Deviation Status Report
Every 4 weeks following deviation
• Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator
• The date a qualified operator will be accessible
• Request for approval to continue operation
§ 60.2785(a)(2).
Qualified Operator Deviation Notification of Resumed Operation
Prior to resuming operation
• Notification that you are resuming operation
§ 60.2785(b).
1
This table is only a summary, see the referenced sections of the rule for the complete requirements.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to Incinerators on and After [Date To Be Specified in State Plan]
1
For the air pollutant
You must meet this
emission limitation
2
Using this averaging time
3
And determining compliance using this method
3
Cadmium
0.0026 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use ICPMS for the analytical finish.
Carbon monoxide
17 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 10 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
4.6 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
0.13 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Hydrogen chloride
29 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (For Method 26, collect a minimum volume of 60 liters per run. For Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter per run)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Lead
0.015 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use ICPMS for the analytical finish.
Mercury
0.0048 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 an ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008),
4
collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
Performance test (Method 29 or 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
4
Nitrogen oxides
53 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 7E, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Particulate matter filterable
34 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter)
Performance test (Method 5 or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or appendix A-8).
Sulfur dioxide
11 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6c at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Fugitive ash
Visible emissions for no more than 5% of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
1
The date specified in the state plan can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018.
2
All emission limitations are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions. For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.
3
In lieu of performance testing, you may use a CEMS or, for mercury, an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance with an emissions limit, as long as you comply with the CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system requirements applicable to the specific pollutant in §§ 60.2710 and 60.2730. As prescribed in § 60.2710(u), if you use a CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an emissions limit, your averaging time is a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations.
4
Incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to Energy Recovery Units After May 20, 2011
[Date to be specified in state plan]
1
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
2
Liquid/gas
Solids
Using this averaging time
3
And determining compliance using this method
3
Cadmium
0.023 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—0.0014 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—0.0017 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use ICPMS for the analytical finish.
Carbon monoxide
35 parts per million dry volume
Biomass—260 parts per million dry volume. Coal—95 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 10 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
2.9 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—0.52 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—5.1 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 4 dry standard cubic meter)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
0.32 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—0.12 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—0.075 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 4 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Hydrogen chloride
14 parts per million dry volume
Biomass—0.20 parts per million dry volume. Coal—58 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 26, collect a minimum of 120 liters; for Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Lead
0.096 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—0.014 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—0.057 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use ICPMS for the analytical finish.
Mercury
0.0024 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—0.0022 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—0.013 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008)
4
, collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
Performance test (Method 29 or 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
4
Nitrogen oxides
76 parts per million dry volume
Biomass—290 parts per million dry volume. Coal—460 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 7E, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Particulate matter filterable
110 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
Biomass—11 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter. Coal—130 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter)
Performance test (Method 5 or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or appendix A-8).
Sulfur dioxide
720 parts per million dry volume
Biomass—7.3 parts per million dry volume. Coal—850 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6c at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Fugitive ash
Visible emissions for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Visible emissions for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
1
The date specified in the state plan can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018.
2
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions. For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.
3
In lieu of performance testing, you may use a CEMS or, for mercury, an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance with an emissions limit, as long as you comply with the CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system requirements applicable to the specific pollutant in §§ 60.2710 and 60.2730. As prescribed in § 60.2710(u), if you use a CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an emissions limit, your averaging time is a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations.
4
Incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.
[85 FR 63406, Oct. 7, 2020]
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to Waste-Burning Kilns After May 20, 2011
[Date to be specified in state plan]
1
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
2
Using this averaging time
3
And determining compliance using this method
3 4
Cadmium
0.0014 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
110 (long kilns)/790 (preheater/precalciner) parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 10 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
1.3 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 4 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
0.075 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 4 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Hydrogen chloride
3.0 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter), or 30-day rolling average if HCl CEMS is being used
If a wet scrubber or dry scrubber is used, performance test (Method 321 at 40 CFR part 63, appendix A of this part). If a wet scrubber or dry scrubber is not used, HCl CEMS as specified in § 60.2710(j).
Lead
0.014 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Mercury
0.011 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter.
Or
58 pounds/million tons of clinker
30-day rolling average
Mercury CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system (performance specification 12A or 12B, respectively, of appendix B and procedure 5 of appendix F of this part), as specified in § 60.2710(j).
Nitrogen oxides
630 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 7E, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Particulate matter filterable
13.5 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter)
Performance test (Method 5 or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or appendix-8).
Sulfur dioxide
600 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 6, collect a minimum of 20 liters; for Method 6C, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6c at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
1
The date specified in the state plan can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018.
2
All emission limitations are measured at 7 percent oxygen (except for CEMS and integrated sorbent trap monitoring system data during startup and shutdown), dry basis at standard conditions. For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.
3
In lieu of performance testing, you may use a CEMS or, for mercury, an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance with an emissions limit, as long as you comply with the CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system requirements applicable to the specific pollutant in §§ 60.2710 and 60.2730. As prescribed in § 60.2710(u), if you use a CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an emissions limit, your averaging time is a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations.
4
Alkali bypass and in-line coal mill stacks are subject to performance testing only, as specified in § 60.2710(y)(3). They are not subject to the CEMS, integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, or CPMS requirements that otherwise may apply to the main kiln exhaust.
[85 FR 63407, Oct. 7, 2020]
Pt. 60, Subpt. DDDD, Table 9

# Table 9 to Subpart DDDD of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to Small, Remote Incinerators After May 20, 2011 [Date To Be Specified in State Plan]
1
For the air pollutant
You must meet this
emission limitation
2
Using this averaging time
3
And determining compliance using this method
3
Cadmium
0.95 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
64 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 10 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
4,400 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
180 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Fugitive ash
Visible emissions for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emissions test (Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Hydrogen chloride
300 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (For Method 26, collect a minimum volume of 120 liters per run. For Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meter per run)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Lead
2.1 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use ICPMS for the analytical finish.
Mercury
0.0053 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008),
3
collect a minimum volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
Performance test (Method 29 or 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
4
Nitrogen oxides
190 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 7E, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Particulate matter (filterable)
270 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters)
Performance test (Method 5 or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or appendix A-8).
Sulfur dioxide
150 parts per million dry volume
3-run average (for Method 6, collect a minimum of 20 liters per run; for Method 6C, 1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6c at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
1
The date specified in the state plan can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of approval of a revised state plan or February 7, 2018.
2
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions. For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.
3
In lieu of performance testing, you may use a CEMS or, for mercury, an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, to demonstrate initial and continuing compliance with an emissions limit, as long as you comply with the CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system requirements applicable to the specific pollutant in §§ 60.2710 and 60.2730. As prescribed in § 60.2710(u), if you use a CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an emissions limit, your averaging time is a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations.
4
Incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.

# Subpart EEEE—Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006

# Source:
70 FR 74892, Dec. 16, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, the subpart EEEE heading was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Introduction
§ 60.2880
What does this subpart do?
This subpart establishes new source performance standards for other solid waste incineration (OSWI) units. Other solid waste incineration units are very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units.
§ 60.2881
When does this subpart become effective?
This subpart takes effect June 16, 2006. Some of the requirements in this subpart apply to planning the incineration unit and must be completed even before construction is initiated on the unit (i.e., the preconstruction requirements in §§ 60.2894 and 60.2895). Other
requirements such as the emission limitations and operating limits apply when the unit begins operation.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2881 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Applicability
§ 60.2885
Does this subpart apply to my incineration unit?
Yes, if your incineration unit meets all the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Your incineration unit is a new incineration unit as defined in § 60.2886.
(b) Your incineration unit is an OSWI unit as defined in § 60.2977 or an air curtain incinerator subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2888(b). Other solid waste incineration units are very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units as defined in § 60.2977.
(c) Your incineration unit is not excluded under § 60.2887.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2885 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2886
What is a new incineration unit?
(a) A new incineration unit is an incineration unit subject to this subpart that meets either of the two criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Commenced construction after December 9, 2004.
(2) Commenced reconstruction or modification on or after June 16, 2006.
(b) This subpart does not affect your incineration unit if you make physical or operational changes to your incineration unit primarily to comply with the emission guidelines in subpart FFFF of this part. Such changes do not qualify as reconstruction or modification under this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2886 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2887
What combustion units are excluded from this subpart?
This subpart excludes the types of units described in paragraphs (a) through (q) of this section, as long as you meet the requirements of this section.
(a)
Cement kilns.
Your unit is excluded if it is regulated under subpart LLL of part 63 of this chapter (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry).
(b)
Co-fired combustors.
Your unit, that would otherwise be considered a very small municipal waste combustion unit, is excluded if it meets the five requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The unit has a Federally enforceable permit limiting the combustion of municipal solid waste to 30 percent of the total fuel input by weight.
(2) You notify the Administrator that the unit qualifies for the exclusion.
(3) You provide the Administrator with a copy of the Federally enforceable permit.
(4) You record the weights, each calendar quarter, of municipal solid waste and of all other fuels combusted.
(5) You keep each report for 5 years. These records must be kept on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(c)
Cogeneration facilities.
Your unit is excluded if it meets the three requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The unit qualifies as a cogeneration facility under section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)).
(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity and steam or other forms of energy used for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
(3) You notify the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria.
(d)
Commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units.
Your unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts CCCC or DDDD of this part and is required to meet the emission limitations established in those subparts.
(e)
Hazardous waste combustion units.
Your unit is excluded if it meets either of the two criteria specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) You are required to get a permit for your unit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act.
(2) Your unit is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors).
(f)
Hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators.
Your unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts Ce or Ec of this part (New Source Performance Standards and Emission Guidelines for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators).
(g)
Incinerators and air curtain incinerators in isolated areas of Alaska.
Your incineration unit is excluded if it is used at a solid waste disposal site in Alaska that is classified as a Class II or Class III municipal solid waste landfill, as defined in § 60.2977.
(h)
Rural institutional waste incinerators.
Your incineration unit is excluded if it is an institutional waste incineration unit, as defined in § 60.2977, and the application for exclusion described in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section has been approved by the Administrator.
(1) Prior to initial startup, an application and supporting documentation demonstrating that the institutional waste incineration unit meets the two requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be submitted to and approved by the Administrator.
(i) The unit is located more than 50 miles from the boundary of the nearest Metropolitan Statistical Area,
(ii) Alternative disposal options are not available or are economically infeasible.
(2) The application described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be revised and resubmitted to the Administrator for approval every 5 years following the initial approval of the exclusion for your unit.
(3) If you re-applied for an exclusion pursuant to paragraph (h)(2) of this section and were denied exclusion by the Administrator, you have 3 years from the expiration date of the current exclusion to comply with the emission limits and all other applicable requirements of this subpart.
(i)
Institutional boilers and process heaters.
Your unit is excluded if it is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart DDDDD (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters).
(j)
Laboratory Analysis Units.
Your unit is excluded if it burns samples of materials only for the purpose of chemical or physical analysis.
(k)
Materials recovery units.
Your unit is excluded if it combusts waste for the primary purpose of recovering metals. Examples include primary and secondary smelters.
(l)
Pathological waste incineration units.
Your institutional waste incineration unit or very small municipal waste combustion unit is excluded from this subpart if it burns 90 percent or more by weight (on a calendar quarter basis and excluding the weight of auxiliary fuel and combustion air) of pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste as defined in § 60.2977 and you notify the Administrator that the unit meets these criteria.
(m)
Small or large municipal waste combustion units.
Your unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts AAAA, BBBB, Ea, Eb, or Cb, of this part and is required to meet the emission limitations established in those subparts.
(n)
Small power production facilities.
Your unit is excluded if it meets the three requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The unit qualifies as a small power-production facility under section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)).
(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity.
(3) You notify the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria.
(o)
Temporary-use incinerators and air curtain incinerators used in disaster recovery.
Your incineration unit is excluded if it is used on a temporary basis to combust debris from a disaster or emergency such as a tornado, hurricane, flood, ice storm, high winds, or act of bioterrorism and you comply with the requirements in § 60.2969.
(p)
Units that combust contraband or prohibited goods.
Your incineration unit
is excluded if the unit is owned or operated by a government agency such as police, customs, agricultural inspection, or a similar agency to destroy only illegal or prohibited goods such as illegal drugs, or agricultural food products that can not be transported into the country or across State lines to prevent biocontamination. The exclusion does not apply to items either confiscated or incinerated by private, industrial, or commercial entities.
(q)
Incinerators used for national security.
Your incineration unit is excluded if it meets the requirements specified in either (q)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) The incineration unit is used solely during military training field exercises to destroy national security materials integral to the field exercises.
(2) The incineration unit is used solely to incinerate national security materials, its use is necessary to safeguard national security, you follow the exclusion request requirements in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, and the Administrator has approved your request for exclusion.
(i) The request for exclusion and supporting documentation must demonstrate both that the incineration unit is used solely to destroy national security materials and that a reliable alternative to incineration that ensures acceptable destruction of national security materials is unavailable, on either a permanent or temporary basis.
(ii) The request for exclusion must be submitted to and approved by the Administrator prior to initial startup.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2887 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2888
Are air curtain incinerators regulated under this subpart?
(a) Air curtain incinerators that burn less than 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste or air curtain incinerators located at institutional facilities burning any amount of institutional waste generated at that facility are subject to all requirements of this subpart, including the emission limitations specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(b) Air curtain incinerators that burn only less than 35 tons per day of the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section collected from the general public and from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources; or, air curtain incinerators located at institutional facilities that burn only the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section generated at that facility, are required to meet only the requirements in §§ 60.2970 through 60.2974 and are exempt from all other requirements of this subpart.
(1) 100 percent wood waste.
(2) 100 percent clean lumber.
(3) 100 percent yard waste.
(4) 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2888 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2889
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If EPA has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section are retained by EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the emission limitations in table 1 of this subpart and operating limits established under § 60.2916 and table 2 of this subpart.
(2) Approval of petitions for specific operating limits in § 60.2917.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to test methods.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring.
(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting.
(6) The status report requirements in § 60.2911(c)(2).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27939, June 30, 2025, § 60.2889 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2890
How are these new source performance standards structured?
These new source performance standards contain nine major components, as follows:
(a) Preconstruction siting analysis.
(b) Waste management plan.
(c) Operator training and qualification.
(d) Emission limitations and operating limits.
(e) Performance testing.
(f) Initial compliance requirements.
(g) Continuous compliance requirements.
(h) Monitoring.
(i) Recordkeeping and reporting.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2890 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2891
Do all components of these new source performance standards apply at the same time?
No, you must meet the preconstruction siting analysis and waste management plan requirements before you commence construction, reconstruction, or modification of the OSWI unit. The operator training and qualification, emission limitations, operating limits, performance testing and compliance, monitoring, and most recordkeeping and reporting requirements are met after the OSWI unit begins operation.

# Preconstruction Siting Analysis
§ 60.2894
Who must prepare a siting analysis?
(a) You must prepare a siting analysis if you commence construction, reconstruction, or modification of an OSWI unit after June 16, 2006.
(b) If you commence construction, reconstruction, or modification of an OSWI unit after December 9, 2004, but before June 16, 2006, you are not required to prepare the siting analysis specified in this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2894 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2895
What is a siting analysis?
(a) The siting analysis must consider air pollution control alternatives that minimize, on a site-specific basis, to the maximum extent practicable, potential risks to public health or the environment. In considering such alternatives, you may consider costs, energy impacts, nonair environmental impacts, or any other factors related to the practicability of the alternatives.
(b) Analyses of your OSWI unit's impacts that are prepared to comply with State, local, or other Federal regulatory requirements may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section, provided they include the consideration of air pollution control alternatives specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) You must complete and submit the siting requirements of this section as required under § 60.2952(c) prior to commencing construction, reconstruction, or modification.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2895 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Waste Management Plan
§ 60.2899
What is a waste management plan?
A waste management plan is a written plan that identifies both the feasibility and the methods used to reduce or separate certain components of solid waste from the waste stream in order to reduce or eliminate toxic emissions from incinerated waste.
§ 60.2900
When must I submit my waste management plan?
You must submit a waste management plan prior to commencing construction, reconstruction, or modification.
§ 60.2901
What should I include in my waste management plan?
A waste management plan must include consideration of the reduction or separation of waste-stream elements such as paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, batteries, or metals; or the use of recyclable materials. The plan must identify any additional waste management measures and implement those
measures the source considers practical and feasible, considering the effectiveness of waste management measures already in place, the costs of additional measures, the emissions reductions expected to be achieved, and any other environmental or energy impacts they might have.

# Operator Training and Qualification
§ 60.2905
What are the operator training and qualification requirements?
(a) No OSWI unit can be operated unless a fully trained and qualified OSWI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified OSWI unit operator may operate the OSWI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified OSWI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in § 60.2911.
(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a State-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Training on the thirteen subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section.
(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions.
(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion.
(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, waste charging, and shutdown procedures.
(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring.
(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable).
(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices.
(vii) Methods to monitor pollutants (including monitoring of incinerator and control device operating parameters) and monitoring equipment calibration procedures, where applicable.
(viii) Actions to correct malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(ix) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures.
(x) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards.
(xi) Pollution prevention.
(xii) Waste management practices.
(xiii) Recordkeeping requirements.
(2) An examination designed and administered by the instructor.
(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2905 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2906
When must the operator training course be completed?
The operator training course must be completed by the latest of the three dates specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Six months after your OSWI unit startup.
(b) December 18, 2006.
(c) The date before an employee assumes responsibility for operating the OSWI unit or assumes responsibility for supervising the operation of the OSWI unit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2906 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2907
How do I obtain my operator qualification?
(a) You must obtain operator qualification by completing a training course that satisfies the criteria under § 60.2905(c).
(b) Qualification is valid from the date on which the training course is completed and the operator successfully passes the examination required under § 60.2905(c)(2).
§ 60.2908
How do I maintain my operator qualification?
To maintain qualification, you must complete an annual review or refresher course covering, at a minimum, the five topics described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Update of regulations.
(b) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures, waste charging, and ash handling.
(c) Inspection and maintenance.
(d) Responses to malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(e) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2908 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2909
How do I renew my lapsed operator qualification?
You must renew a lapsed operator qualification by one of the two methods specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For a lapse of less than 3 years, you must complete a standard annual refresher course described in § 60.2908.
(b) For a lapse of 3 years or more, you must repeat the initial qualification requirements in § 60.2907(a).
§ 60.2910
What site-specific documentation is required?
(a) Documentation must be available at the facility and readily accessible for all OSWI unit operators that addresses the nine topics described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. You must maintain this information and the training records required by paragraph (c) of this section in a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection upon request.
(1) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart.
(2) Procedures for receiving, handling, and charging waste.
(3) Incinerator startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures.
(4) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels.
(5) Procedures for operating the incinerator and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart.
(6) Monitoring procedures for demonstrating compliance with the operating limits established under this subpart.
(7) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(8) The waste management plan required under §§ 60.2899 through 60.2901.
(9) Procedures for handling ash.
(b) You must establish a program for reviewing the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section with each incinerator operator.
(1) The initial review of the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted by December 18, 2006 or prior to an employee's assumption of responsibilities for operation of the OSWI unit, whichever date is later.
(2) Subsequent annual reviews of the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted not later than 12 months following the previous review.
(c) You must also maintain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Records showing the names of OSWI unit operators who have completed review of the information in paragraph (a) of this section as required by paragraph (b) of this section, including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(2) Records showing the names of the OSWI unit operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.2905, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.2907, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.2908 or § 60.2909. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(3) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27940, June 30, 2025, § 60.2910 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2911
What if all the qualified operators are temporarily not accessible?
If all qualified operators are temporarily not accessible (i.e., not at the facility and not able to be at the facility within 1 hour), you must meet one of the three criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, depending on the length of time that a qualified operator is not accessible.
(a) When all qualified operators are not accessible for 12 hours or less, the OSWI unit may be operated by other plant personnel familiar with the operation of the OSWI unit who have completed review of the information specified in § 60.2910(a) within the past 12 months. You do not need to notify the Administrator or include this as a deviation in your annual report.
(b) When all qualified operators are not accessible for more than 12 hours, but less than 2 weeks, the OSWI unit may be operated by other plant personnel familiar with the operation of the OSWI unit who have completed a review of the information specified in § 60.2910(a) within the past 12 months. However, you must record the period when all qualified operators were not accessible and include this deviation in the annual report as specified under § 60.2956.
(c) When all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions that are described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator of this deviation in writing within 10 days. In the notice, state what caused this deviation, what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, and when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(2) Submit a status report to EPA every 4 weeks outlining what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, stating when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible and requesting approval from EPA to continue operation of the OSWI unit. You must submit the first status report 4 weeks after you notify the Administrator of the deviation under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If EPA notifies you that your request to continue operation of the OSWI unit is disapproved, the OSWI unit may continue operation for 90 days, then must cease operation. Operation of the unit may resume if you meet the two requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A qualified operator is accessible as required under § 60.2905(a).
(ii) You notify EPA that a qualified operator is accessible and that you are resuming operation.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27941, June 30, 2025, § 60.2911 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Emission Limitations and Operating Limits
§ 60.2915
What emission limitations must I meet and by when?
You must meet the emission limitations specified in table 1 of this subpart 60 days after your OSWI unit reaches the charge rate at which it will operate, but no later than 180 days after its initial startup.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27941, June 30, 2025, § 60.2915 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2916
What operating limits must I meet and by when?
(a) If you use a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations, you must establish operating limits for four operating parameters (as specified in table 2 of this subpart) as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section during the initial performance test.
(1) Maximum charge rate, calculated using one of the two different procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) For continuous and intermittent units, maximum charge rate is the average charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(ii) For batch units, maximum charge rate is the charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(2) Minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber, which is calculated as the average pressure drop across the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter emission limitations; or minimum amperage to the wet scrubber, which is calculated as the average amperage to the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter emission limitations.
(3) Minimum scrubber liquor flow rate, which is calculated as the average liquor flow rate at the inlet to the wet
scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(4) Minimum scrubber liquor pH, which is calculated as the average liquor pH at the inlet to the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the hydrogen chloride and sulfur dioxide emission limitations.
(b) You must meet the operating limits established during the initial performance test 60 days after your OSWI unit reaches the charge rate at which it will operate, but no later than 180 days after its initial startup.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27941, June 30, 2025, § 60.2916 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2917
What if I do not use a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations?
If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber or limit emissions in some other manner to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.2915, you must petition EPA for specific operating limits, the values of which are to be established during the initial performance test and then continuously monitored thereafter. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by EPA. Your petition must include the five items listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as operating limits.
(b) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants.
(c) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters that will establish the operating limits on these parameters.
(d) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments.
(e) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27942, June 30, 2025, § 60.2917 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2918
What happens during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction?
The emission limitations and operating limits apply at all times except during OSWI unit startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27942, June 30, 2025, § 60.2918 was removed, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Performance Testing
§ 60.2922
How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?
(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.
(b) All performance tests must be conducted using the methods in table 1 of this subpart.
(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(d) Method 1 of appendix A of this part must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.
(e) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used simultaneously with each method.
(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 in “60.2975.
(g) Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used for hydrogen chloride concentration analysis, with the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The probe and filter must be conditioned prior to sampling using the
procedure described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Assemble the sampling train(s) and conduct a conditioning run by collecting between 14 liters per minute (0.5 cubic feet per minute) and 30 liters per minute (1.0 cubic feet per minute) of gas over a one-hour period. Follow the sampling procedures outlined in section 8.1.5 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part. For the conditioning run, water can be used as the impinger solution.
(ii) Remove the impingers from the sampling train and replace with a fresh impinger train for the sampling run, leaving the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) in position. Do not recover the filter or rinse the probe before the first run. Thoroughly rinse the impingers used in the preconditioning run with deionized water and discard these rinses.
(iii) The probe and filter assembly are conditioned by the stack gas and are not recovered or cleaned until the end of testing.
(2) For the duration of sampling, a temperature around the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) between 120 °C (248 °F) and 134 °C (273 °F) must be maintained.
(3) If water droplets are present in the sample gas stream, the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section must be met.
(i) The cyclone described in section 6.1.4 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.
(ii) The post-test moisture removal procedure described in section 8.1.6 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27942, June 30, 2025, § 60.2922 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2923
How are the performance test data used?
You use results of performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations in table 1 of this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27942, June 30, 2025, § 60.2923 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 60.2927
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and establish the operating limits?
You must conduct an initial performance test, as required under § 60.8, to determine compliance with the emission limitations in table 1 of this subpart and to establish operating limits using the procedure in § 60.2916 or § 60.2917. The initial performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 1 of this subpart and the procedures in § 60.2922.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27942, June 30, 2025, § 60.2927 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2928
By what date must I conduct the initial performance test?
The initial performance test must be conducted within 60 days after your OSWI unit reaches the charge rate at which it will operate, but no later than 180 days after its initial startup.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27943, June 30, 2025, § 60.2928 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2929
What are the substitute means of compliance demonstration requirements for very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units with capacities less than or equal to 10 tons per day?
Instead of conducting the initial performance test in § 60.2927(a), very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units with capacities less than or equal to 10 tons per day may demonstrate initial compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a) You must submit the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section for each very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit for which you are using a substitute means of compliance demonstration.
(1) On or before December 29, 2025 or within 60 days of startup, whichever is later, you must submit a written notification to the Administrator via
CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov),
that you intend to use the substitute means of compliance demonstration. Your submittal must include information on the design and operation of the OSWI unit, including the information in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). If you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit the information listed below following the procedures in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(i) Manufacturer, make, and model of the unit.
(ii) Type of unit (
e.g.,
burn barrel, incinerator with secondary chamber, etc.).
(iii) Capacity of the unit.
(iv) The anticipated waste profile, as defined in § 60.2977.
(2) Beginning on December 29, 2025 or upon initial startup, whichever is later, you must collect the data in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section. You must continue to collect the data in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section until you meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(i) Identity and weight of each waste type (
e.g.,
lbs of paper waste, food waste, wood or yard waste) on a weekly total basis for the date range the information is collected.
(ii) Identity and quantities (
e.g.,
flow rate or percentage of operating time) of supplemental fuels burned on a weekly total basis for the date range the information is collected.
(iii) Percentage of total waste burned for each waste type on a weekly average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(iv) Temperature indicative of the combustion chamber and description of where temperature is measured. Record this information on a 3-hour rolling average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(v) Hours operated per day for the date range the information is collected.
(vi) Charge rate each day in tons per day for the date range the information is collected.
(vii) Operating parameter data for any air pollution control devices. For wet scrubbers, include pressure drop across the scrubber or amperage to the scrubber, scrubber liquor inlet flow rate, and scrubber liquor pH at the outlet of the scrubber. For dry scrubbers, include injection rate of each sorbent used. For electrostatic precipitators, include the secondary voltage, secondary amperage, and secondary power. Record this information on a 3-hour rolling average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(b) On or before the latest of March 30, 3027; 60 days after the very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit reaches the charge rate at which it will operate; or 180 days after initial startup, you must identify the results of a performance test in the EPA's WebFIRE database that is representative for your very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit using the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section and submit the information in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. You must submit the information following the procedure in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The performance test may be any test that meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, regardless of location, that is representative of your OSWI unit.
(1) Identify the representative performance test used to demonstrate initial compliance with each very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit by submitting the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section as provided in the EPA's WebFIRE database for the performance test:
(i) Organization.
(ii) Facility.
(iii) City.
(iv) State.
(v) County.
(vi) Submission date.
(2) Describe how the test is representative for your OSWI unit, based on the following criteria, using the data submitted as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and collected as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(i) Unit design, including type of unit and any associated air pollution control devices.
(ii) Charge rate.
(iii) Type of operation (batch, continuous, intermittent).
(iv) Combustion temperature and location of temperature measurement.
(v) Type(s) of waste burned.
(vi) Waste profile, as defined in § 60.2977.
(vii) Type and amount of supplemental fuels.
(viii) Similarity of air pollution control devices and operation of the air pollution control devices, if the performance test was conducted on a unit with an air pollution control device.
(3) You must submit the information required in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. If you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit the information, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim as CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(i) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqps_cbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Other Solid Waste Incinerator Units Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqps_cbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(ii) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and Other Solid Waste Incinerator Units Sector Lead, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(c) Any performance test used as a representative test in a substitute means of compliance demonstration under paragraph (b) of this section must be conducted following the initial testing requirements of § 60.2922 and demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in table 1b to this subpart. In addition to the results of the performance test and the information required by § 60.8(f)(2), the performance test report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Unit design, including type of unit and any associated air pollution control devices.
(2) Charge rate during the test.
(3) Type of operation (batch, continuous, intermittent).
(4) Combustion temperature and location of temperature measurement. The temperature must be recorded continuously for each run of the performance test. The performance test report must also identify the lowest 1-hour average combustion chamber operating temperature.
(5) Types of waste burned during the test.
(6) Waste profile, as defined in § 60.2977, established during the test.
(7) Type and amount of supplemental fuels burned during the test and the timeframe that each supplemental fuel was burned during the test.
(8) If the performance test was conducted on a unit with an air pollution control device, the operating parameter data for the control device must be recorded continuously for each run of the performance test. The performance test report must also identify the lowest or highest, as applicable, 1-hour average for the operating parameter.
(i) For wet scrubbers, the performance test report must include data for pressure drop across the scrubber or amperage to the scrubber, scrubber liquor inlet flow rate, and scrubber liquor pH at the outlet of the scrubber.
(ii) For dry scrubbers, the performance test report must include data for the injection rate of each sorbent used.
(iii) For electrostatic precipitators, the performance test report must include data for the secondary voltage, secondary amperage, and secondary power.
(d) If there are no results from a performance test that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section that are representative of your OSWI unit, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to the requirements of § 60.2927(a).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27943, June 30, 2025, § 60.2929 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 60.2932
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?
(a) You must conduct an annual performance test for all of the pollutants in table 1 of this subpart for each OSWI unit to determine compliance with the emission limitations. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 1 of this subpart and the procedures in 60.2922.
(b) You must continuously monitor carbon monoxide emissions to determine compliance with the carbon monoxide emissions limitation. Twelve-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance. A 12-hour rolling average value above the carbon monoxide emission limit in table 1 of this subpart constitutes a deviation from the emission limitation.
(c) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 60.2916 or established under § 60.2917. Three-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance with the operating limits unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.2917. A 3-hour rolling average value (unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.2917) above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits constitutes a deviation from the established operating limits. Operating limits do not apply during performance tests.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27944, June 30, 2025, § 60.2932 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2933
By what date must I conduct the annual performance test?
You must conduct annual performance tests within 12 months following the initial performance test. Conduct subsequent annual performance tests within 12 months following the previous one.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2933 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2934
May I conduct performance testing less often?
(a) You can test less often for a given pollutant if you have test data for at least three consecutive annual tests, and all performance tests for the pollutant over that period show that you comply with the emission limitation. In this case, you do not have to conduct a performance test for that pollutant for the next 2 years. You must conduct a performance test during the 3rd year and no more than 36 months following the previous performance test.
(b) If your OSWI unit continues to meet the emission limitation for the pollutant, you may choose to conduct performance tests for that pollutant every 3rd year, but each test must be within 36 months of the previous performance test.
(c) If a performance test shows a deviation from an emission limitation for
any pollutant, you must conduct annual performance tests for that pollutant until three consecutive annual performance tests for that pollutant all show compliance.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2934 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2935
May I conduct a repeat performance test to establish new operating limits?
Yes, you may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2935 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Monitoring
§ 60.2939
What continuous emission monitoring systems must I install?
(a) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate continuous emission monitoring systems for carbon monoxide and for oxygen. You must monitor the oxygen concentration at each location where you monitor carbon monoxide.
(b) You must install, evaluate, and operate each continuous emission monitoring system according to the “Monitoring Requirements” in § 60.13.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2939 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2940
How do I make sure my continuous emission monitoring systems are operating correctly?
(a) Conduct initial, daily, quarterly, and annual evaluations of your continuous emission monitoring systems that measure carbon monoxide and oxygen.
(b) Complete your initial evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring systems within 60 days after your OSWI unit reaches the maximum load level at which it will operate, but no later than 180 days after its initial startup.
(c) For initial and annual evaluations, collect data concurrently (or within 30 to 60 minutes) using your carbon monoxide and oxygen continuous emission monitoring systems. To validate carbon monoxide concentration levels, use EPA Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A of this part. Use EPA Method 3 or 3A to measure oxygen. Collect the data during each initial and annual evaluation of your continuous emission monitoring systems following the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part. table 3 of this subpart shows the required span values and performance specifications that apply to each continuous emission monitoring system.
(d) Follow the quality assurance procedures in Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part for each continuous emission monitoring system. The procedures include daily calibration drift and quarterly accuracy determinations.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2940 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2941
What is my schedule for evaluating continuous emission monitoring systems?
(a) Conduct annual evaluations of your continuous emission monitoring systems no more than 12 months after the previous evaluation was conducted.
(b) Evaluate your continuous emission monitoring systems daily and quarterly as specified in appendix F of this part.
§ 60.2942
What is the minimum amount of monitoring data I must collect with my continuous emission monitoring systems, and is the data collection requirement enforceable?
(a) Where continuous emission monitoring systems are required, obtain 1-hour arithmetic averages. Make sure the averages for carbon monoxide are in parts per million by dry volume at 7 percent oxygen. Use the 1-hour averages of oxygen data from your continuous emission monitoring system to determine the actual oxygen level and to calculate emissions at 7 percent oxygen.
(b) Obtain at least two data points per hour in order to calculate a valid 1-hour arithmetic average. Section 60.13(e)(2) requires your continuous emission monitoring systems to complete at least one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each 15-minute period.
(c) Obtain valid 1-hour averages for at least 75 percent of the operating hours per day for at least 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter. An operating day is any day the unit combusts any municipal or institutional solid waste.
(d) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, you have deviated from the data collection requirement regardless of the emission level monitored.
(e) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, you must still use all valid data from the continuous emission monitoring systems in calculating emission concentrations.
(f) If continuous emission monitoring systems are temporarily unavailable to meet the data collection requirements, refer to table 3 of this subpart. It shows alternate methods for collecting data when systems malfunction or when repairs, calibration checks, or zero and span checks keep you from collecting the minimum amount of data.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27945, June 30, 2025, § 60.2942 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2943
How do I convert my 1-hour arithmetic averages into the appropriate averaging times and units?
(a) Use Equation 1 in § 60.2975 to calculate emissions at 7 percent oxygen.
(b) Use Equation 2 in § 60.2975 to calculate the 12-hour rolling averages for concentrations of carbon monoxide.
§ 60.2944
What operating parameter monitoring equipment must I install, and what operating parameters must I monitor?
(a) If you are using a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.2915, you must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate devices (or establish methods) for monitoring the value of the operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits listed in table 2 of this subpart. These devices (or methods) must measure and record the values for these operating parameters at the frequencies indicated in table 2 of this subpart at all times.
(b) You must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device or method for measuring the use of any stack that could be used to bypass the control device. The measurement must include the date, time, and duration of the use of the bypass stack.
(c) If you are using a method or air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.2915, you must install, calibrate (to the manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate the equipment necessary to monitor compliance with the site-specific operating limits established using the procedures in § 60.2917.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27946, June 30, 2025, § 60.2944 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2945
Is there a minimum amount of operating parameter monitoring data I must obtain?
(a) Except for monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments of the monitoring system), you must conduct all monitoring at all times the OSWI unit is operating.
(b) You must obtain valid monitoring data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours per day for at least 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter. An operating day is any day the unit combusts any municipal or institutional solid waste.
(c) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you have deviated from the data collection requirement regardless of the operating parameter level monitored.
(d) Do not use data recorded during monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or quality control activities for meeting the requirements of this subpart, including data averages and calculations. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance with the operating limits.

# Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 60.2949
What records must I keep?
You must maintain the 15 items (as applicable) as specified in paragraphs (a) through (o) of this section for a period of at least 5 years.
(a) Calendar date of each record.
(b) Records of the data described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The OSWI unit charge dates, times, weights, and hourly charge rates.
(2) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(3) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system every 15 minutes of operation or amperage to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(4) Liquor pH as introduced to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(5) For OSWI units that establish operating limits for controls other than wet scrubbers under § 60.2917, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits.
(6) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions.
(7) All 12-hour rolling average values of carbon monoxide emissions and all 3-hour rolling average values of continuously monitored operating parameters.
(8) Records of the dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.
(c) Identification of calendar dates and times for which continuous emission monitoring systems or monitoring systems used to monitor operating limits were inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, or out of control (except for downtime associated with zero and span and other routine calibration checks). Identify the pollutant emissions or operating parameters not measured, the duration, reasons for not obtaining the data, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(d) Identification of calendar dates, times, and durations of malfunctions, and a description of the malfunction and the corrective action taken.
(e) Identification of calendar dates and times for which monitoring data show a deviation from the carbon monoxide emissions limit in table 1 of this subpart or a deviation from the operating limits in table 2 of this subpart or a deviation from other operating limits established under § 60.2917 with a description of the deviations, reasons for such deviations, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(f) Calendar dates when continuous monitoring systems did not collect the minimum amount of data required under §§ 60.2942 and 60.2945.
(g) For carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring systems, document the results of your daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations according to Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part.
(h) Records of the calibration of any monitoring devices required under § 60.2944.
(i) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable. Retain a copy of the complete test report including calculations and a description of the types of waste burned during the test.
(j) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of §§ 60.2894 and 60.2895.
(k) Records showing the names of OSWI unit operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.2910(a) as required by § 60.2910(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(l) Records showing the names of the OSWI unit operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.2905, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.2907, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.2908 or § 60.2909. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(m) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.
(n) Equipment vendor specifications and related operation and maintenance
requirements for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.
(o) The information listed in § 60.2910(a).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27946, June 30, 2025, § 60.2949 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2950
Where and in what format must I keep my records?
(a) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(b) All records must be available in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
§ 60.2951
What reports must I submit?
See table 4 of this subpart for a summary of the reporting requirements.
§ 60.2952
What must I submit prior to commencing construction?
You must submit a notification prior to commencing construction that includes the five items listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) A statement of intent to construct.
(b) The anticipated date of commencement of construction.
(c) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.2895.
(d) The waste management plan as specified in §§ 60.2899 through 60.2901.
(e) Anticipated date of initial startup.
§ 60.2953
What information must I submit prior to initial startup?
You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section prior to initial startup.
(a) The type(s) of waste to be burned.
(b) The maximum design waste burning capacity.
(c) The anticipated maximum charge rate.
(d) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits under § 60.2917.
(e) The anticipated date of initial startup.
§ 60.2954
What information must I submit following my initial performance test?
You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports must be signed by the facilities manager.
(a) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained under § 60.2927, as applicable.
(b) The values for the site-specific operating limits established in § 60.2916 or § 60.2917.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27947, June 30, 2025, § 60.2954 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2955
When must I submit my annual report?
You must submit an annual report no later than 12 months following the submission of the information in § 60.2954. You must submit subsequent reports no more than 12 months following the previous report.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27947, June 30, 2025, § 60.2955 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2956
What information must I include in my annual report?
The annual report required under § 60.2955 must include the ten items listed in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. If you have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations, you must also submit deviation reports as specified in §§ 60.2957 through 60.2959.
(a) Company name and address.
(b) Statement by the owner or operator, with their name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).
(c) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(d) The values for the operating limits established pursuant to § 60.2916 or § 60.2917.
(e) If no deviation from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you has been reported, a statement that there was no deviation from the emission limitations or operating
limits during the reporting period, and that no monitoring system used to determine compliance with the emission limitations or operating limits was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning or out of control.
(f) The highest recorded 12-hour average and the lowest recorded 12-hour average, as applicable, for carbon monoxide emissions and the highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported.
(g) Information recorded under § 60.2949(b)(6) and (c) through (e) for the calendar year being reported.
(h) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that test.
(i) If you met the requirements of § 60.2934(a) or (b), and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must state that you met the requirements of § 60.2934(a) or (b), and, therefore, you were not required to conduct a performance test during the reporting period.
(j) Documentation of periods when all qualified OSWI unit operators were unavailable for more than 12 hours, but less than 2 weeks.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27947, June 30, 2025, § 60.2956 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2957
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations?
(a) You must submit a deviation report if any recorded 3-hour average parameter level is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart, if any recorded 12-hour average carbon monoxide emission rate is above the emission limitation, if the control device was bypassed, or if a performance test was conducted that showed a deviation from any emission limitation.
(b) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27948, June 30, 2025, § 60.2957 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2958
What must I include in the deviation report?
In each report required under § 60.2957, for any pollutant or operating parameter that deviated from the emission limitations or operating limits specified in this subpart, include the seven items described in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limitations or operating limit requirements.
(b) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(c) Durations and causes of each deviation from the emission limitations or operating limits and your corrective actions.
(d) A copy of the operating limit monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.
(e) The dates, times, number, duration, and causes for monitor downtime incidents (other than downtime associated with zero, span, and other routine calibration checks).
(f) Whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, or during another period.
(g) The dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27948, June 30, 2025, § 60.2958 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2959
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the requirement to have a qualified operator accessible?
(a) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A statement of what caused the deviation.
(ii) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(iii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.
(2) Submit a status report to EPA every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(ii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(iii) Request approval from EPA to continue operation of the OSWI unit.
(b) If your unit was shut down by EPA, under the provisions of § 60.2911(c)(2), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator, you must notify EPA that you are resuming operation once a qualified operator is accessible.
§ 60.2960
Are there any other notifications or reports that I must submit?
Yes, you must submit notifications as provided by § 60.7.
§ 60.2961
In what form can I submit my reports?
Submit initial, annual, and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27948, June 30, 2025, § 60.2961 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2962
Can reporting dates be changed?
If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.

# Title V Operating Permits
§ 60.2966
Am I required to apply for and obtain a title V permit for my unit?
(a) Yes, if you are subject to this subpart, you are required to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit unless you meet the relevant requirements for an exemption specified in § 60.2887, or unless your unit is an air curtain incinerator exempt under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) If you own or operate an air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste; clean lumber; yard waste; or a mixture of wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste and that is subject only to the requirements in §§ 60.2970 through 60.2973, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit, provided that your air curtain incinerator is not otherwise required to obtain a title V operating permit.
[89 FR 89931, Nov. 14, 2024]
§ 60.2967
When must I submit a title V permit application for my new unit?
(a) If your new unit subject to this subpart is not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, a complete title V permit application must be submitted on or before one of the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i) and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(1) For a unit that commenced operation as a new source as of December 16, 2005, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than December 18, 2006.
(2) For a unit that does not commence operation as a new source until after December 16, 2005, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than 12 months after the date the unit commences operation as a new source.
(b) If your new unit subject to this subpart is subject to title V as a result of some triggering requirement(s) other than this subpart (for example, a unit subject to this subpart may be a major source or part of a major source), then your unit may be required to apply for a title V permit prior to the deadlines specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If more than one requirement triggers a source's obligation to apply for a title V permit, the 12-month timeframe for filing a title V permit application is triggered by the requirement that first causes the source to be subject to title V. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i), 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b), and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(c) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 40 CFR 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. (See sections 503(d) and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 40 CFR 71.7(b).)
(d) If you own or operate an air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste; clean lumber; yard waste; or a mixture of wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste and that is subject only to the requirements in §§ 60.2970 through 60.2973, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit, provided that your air curtain incinerator is not otherwise required to obtain a title V operating permit.
[89 FR 89931, Nov. 14, 2024]

# Temporary-Use Incinerators and Air Curtain Incinerators Used in Disaster Recovery
§ 60.2969
What are the requirements for temporary-use incinerators and air curtain incinerators used in disaster recovery?
Your incinerator or air curtain incinerator is excluded from the requirements of this subpart if it is used on a temporary basis to combust debris from a disaster or emergency such as a tornado, hurricane, flood, ice storm, high winds, or act of bioterrorism. To qualify for this exclusion, the incinerator or air curtain incinerator must be used to combust debris in an area declared a State of Emergency by a local or State government, or the President, under the authority of the Stafford Act, has declared that an emergency or a major disaster exists in the area, and you must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) If the incinerator or air curtain incinerator is used during a period that begins on the date the unit started operation and lasts 8 weeks or less within the boundaries of the same emergency or disaster declaration area, then it is excluded from the requirements of this subpart. You do not need to notify the Administrator of its use or meet the emission limitations or other requirements of this subpart.
(b) If the incinerator or air curtain incinerator will be used during a period that begins on the date the unit started operation and lasts more than 8 weeks within the boundaries of the same emergency or disaster declaration area, you must notify the Administrator that the temporary-use incinerator or air curtain incinerator will be used for more than 8 weeks and request permission to continue to operate the unit as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The notification must be submitted in writing by the date 8 weeks after you start operation of the temporary-use incinerator or air curtain incinerator within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area.
(2) The notification must contain the date the incinerator or air curtain incinerator started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area, identification of the disaster or emergency for which the incinerator or air curtain incinerator is being used, a description of the types of materials being burned in the incinerator or air curtain incinerator, a brief description of the size and design of the unit (for example, an air curtain incinerator or a modular starved-air incinerator), the reasons the incinerator or air curtain incinerator must be operated for more than 8 weeks, and the amount of time for which you request permission to operate including the date you expect to cease operation of the unit.
(c) If you submitted the notification containing the information in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by the date specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you may continue to operate the incinerator or air curtain incinerator for another 8 weeks, which is a total of 16 weeks from the date the unit started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area. You do not have to meet the emission limitations or other requirements of this subpart during this period.
(1) At the end of 16 weeks from the date the incinerator or air curtain incinerator started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area, you must cease operation of the unit or comply with all requirements of this subpart, unless the Administrator has approved in writing your request to continue operation.
(2) If the Administrator has approved in writing your request to continue operation, then you may continue to operate the incinerator or air curtain incinerator within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area until the date specified in the approval, and you do not need to comply with any other requirements of this subpart during the approved time period.
[89 FR 89931, Nov. 14, 2024]

# Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn Only Wood Waste, Clean Lumber, and Yard Waste
§ 60.2970
What is an air curtain incinerator?
(a) An air curtain incinerator operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open, integrated combustion chamber (fire box) or open pit or trench (trench burner) in which combustion occurs. For the purpose of this subpart and subpart FFFF of this part only, air curtain incinerators include both firebox and trench burner units.
(b) Air curtain incinerators that burn only the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are required to meet only the requirements in §§ 60.2970 through 60.2974 and are exempt from all other requirements of this subpart.
(1) 100 percent wood waste.
(2) 100 percent clean lumber.
(3) 100 percent yard waste.
(4) 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27949, June 30, 2025, § 60.2970 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2971
What are the emission limitations for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Within 60 days after your air curtain incinerator reaches the charge rate at which it will operate, but no later than 180 days after its initial startup, you must meet the two limitations specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The opacity limitation is 10 percent (6-minute average), except as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The opacity limitation is 35 percent (6-minute average) during the startup period that is within the first 30 minutes of operation.
(b) The limitations in paragraph (a) of this section apply at all times except during malfunctions.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27949, June 30, 2025, § 60.2971 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2972
How must I monitor opacity for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Use Method 9 of appendix A of this part to determine compliance with the opacity limitation.
(b) Conduct an initial test for opacity as specified in § 60.8.
(c) After the initial test for opacity, conduct annual tests no more than 12 months following the date of your previous test.
(d) If the air curtain incinerator has been out of operation for more than 12 months following the date of the previous test, then you must conduct a test for opacity upon startup of the unit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27949, June 30, 2025, § 60.2972 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2973
What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Prior to commencing construction on your air curtain incinerator, submit the three items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Notification of your intent to construct the air curtain incinerator.
(2) Your planned initial startup date.
(3) Types of materials you plan to burn in your air curtain incinerator.
(b) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years. You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(c) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's review.
(d) You must submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the initial opacity tests no later than 60 days following the initial test. Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.
(e) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date.
(f) Keep a copy of the initial and annual reports on site for a period of 5 years. You must keep each report on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the reports off site for the remaining 3 years.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27949, June 30, 2025, § 60.2973 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2974
[Reserved]

# Equations
§ 60.2975
What equations must I use?
(a)
Percent oxygen.
Adjust all pollutant concentrations to 7 percent oxygen using equation 1 of this section.
ER16DE05.000
Where:
C
adj
= pollutant concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen
C
meas
= pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis
(20.9-7) = 20.9 percent oxygen-7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis)
20.9 = oxygen concentration in air, percent
%O
2
= oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent
(b)
Capacity of a very small municipal waste combustion unit.
For very small municipal waste combustion units that can operate continuously for 24-hour periods, calculate the unit capacity based on 24 hours of operation at the maximum charge rate. To determine the maximum charge rate, use one of two methods:
(1) For very small municipal waste combustion units with a design based on heat input capacity, calculate the maximum charging rate based on the maximum heat input capacity and one of two heating values:
(i) If your very small municipal waste combustion unit combusts refuse-derived fuel, use a heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram (5,500 British thermal units per pound).
(ii) If your very small municipal waste combustion unit combusts municipal solid waste, use a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram (4,500 British thermal units per pound).
(2) For very small municipal waste combustion units with a design not based on heat input capacity, use the maximum design charging rate.
(c)
Capacity of a batch very small municipal waste combustion unit.
Calculate the capacity of a batch OSWI unit as the maximum design amount of municipal solid waste it can charge per batch multiplied by the maximum number of batches it can process in 24 hours. Calculate the maximum number of batches by dividing 24 by the number of hours needed to process one batch. Retain fractional batches in the calculation. For example, if one batch requires 16 hours, the unit can combust 24/16, or 1.5 batches, in 24 hours.
(d)
Carbon monoxide pollutant rate.
When hourly average pollutant rates (E
h
) are obtained (
e.g.
, CEMS values), compute the rolling average carbon monoxide pollutant rate (E
a
) for each 12-hour period using the following equation:
ER16DE05.001
Where:
E
a
= Average carbon monoxide pollutant rate for the 12-hour period, ppm corrected to 7 percent O
2
.
E
hj
= Hourly arithmetic average pollutant rate for hour “j,” ppm corrected to 7 percent O
2
.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27950, June 30, 2025, § 60.2975 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Definitions
§ 60.2977
What definitions must I know?
Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and subpart A (General Provisions) of this part.
Administrator means:
(1) For approved and effective State section 111(d)/129 plans, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or his or her delegatee;
(2) For Federal section 111(d)/129 plans, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task; and
(3) For NSPS, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task.
Air curtain incinerator
means an incineration unit operating by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open, integrated combustion chamber (fire box) or open pit or trench (trench burner) in which combustion occurs. For the purpose of this subpart and subpart FFFF of this part only, air curtain incinerators include both firebox and trench burner units.
Auxiliary fuel
means natural gas, liquified petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.
Batch OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed such that neither waste charging nor ash removal can occur during combustion.
Calendar quarter
means three consecutive months (nonoverlapping) beginning on: January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.
Calendar year
means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.
Chemotherapeutic waste
means waste material resulting from the production or use of anti-neoplastic agents used for the purpose of stopping or reversing the growth of malignant cells.
Class II municipal solid waste landfill
means a landfill that meets four criteria:
(1) Accepts, for incineration or disposal, less than 20 tons per day of municipal solid waste or other solid wastes based on an annual average;
(2) Is located on a site where there is no evidence of groundwater pollution caused or contributed to by the landfill;
(3) Is not connected by road to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, as defined by Alaska regulatory code 18 AAC 60.300(c) or, if connected by road, is located more than 50 miles from a Class I municipal solid waste landfill; and
(4) Serves a community that meets one of two criteria:
(i) Experiences for at least three months each year, an interruption in access to surface transportation, preventing access to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill; or
(ii) Has no practicable waste management alternative, with a landfill located in an area that annually receives 25 inches or less of precipitation.
Class III municipal solid waste landfill
is a landfill that is not connected by road to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, as defined by Alaska regulatory code 18 AAC 60.300(c) or, if connected by road, is located more than 50 miles from a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, and that accepts, for disposal, either of the following two criteria:
(1) Ash from incinerated municipal waste in quantities less than 1 ton per day on an annual average, which ash must be free of food scraps that might attract animals; or
(2) Less than 5 tons per day of municipal solid waste, based on an annual average, and is not located in a place that meets either of the following criteria:
(i) Where public access is restricted, including restrictions on the right to move to the place and reside there; or
(ii) That is provided by an employer and that is populated totally by persons who are required to reside there as a condition of employment and who do not consider the place to be their permanent residence.
Clean lumber
means wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products. Clean lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or pressure-treated by compounds such as chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote, or manufactured wood products that contain adhesives or resins (e.g., plywood, particle board, flake board, and oriented strand board).
Collected from
means the transfer of material from the site at which the material is generated to a separate site where the material is burned.
Contained gaseous material
means gases that are in a container when that container is combusted.
Continuous emission monitoring system or CEMS
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an OSWI unit.
Continuous OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed to allow waste charging and ash removal during combustion.
Deviation
means any instance in which a unit that meets the requirements in § 60.2885, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any unit that meets the requirements in § 60.2885 and is required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emission limitation, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirement in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is allowed by this subpart.
Dioxins/furans
means tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Energy recovery
means the process of recovering thermal energy from combustion for useful purposes such as steam generation or process heating.
EPA
means the Administrator of the EPA or employee of the EPA that is delegated the authority to perform the specified task.
Institutional facility
means a land-based facility owned and/or operated by an organization having a governmental, educational, civic, or religious purpose such as a school, hospital, prison, military installation, church, or other similar establishment or facility.
Institutional waste
means solid waste (as defined in this subpart) that is combusted at any institutional facility using controlled flame combustion in an enclosed, distinct operating unit: whose design does not provide for energy recovery (as defined in this subpart); operated without energy recovery (as defined in this subpart); or operated with only waste heat recovery (as defined in this subpart). Institutional waste also means solid waste (as defined in this subpart) combusted on site in an air curtain incinerator that is a distinct operating unit of any institutional facility.
Institutional waste incineration unit
means any combustion unit that combusts institutional waste (as defined in this subpart) and is a distinct operating unit of the institutional facility that generated the waste. Institutional waste incineration units include field-erected, modular, cyclonic burn barrel, and custom built incineration units operating with starved or excess air, and any air curtain incinerator that is a distinct operating unit of the institutional facility that generated the institutional waste (except those air curtain incinerators listed in § 60.2888(b)).
Intermittent OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed to allow waste charging, but not ash removal, during combustion.
Low-level radioactive waste
means waste material that contains radioactive nuclides emitting primarily beta or gamma radiation, or both, in concentrations or quantities that exceed applicable Federal or State standards
for unrestricted release. Low-level radioactive waste is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)(2)).
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Metropolitan Statistical Area
means any areas listed as metropolitan statistical areas in OMB Bulletin No. 05-02 entitled “Update of Statistical Area Definitions and Guidance on Their Uses” dated February 22, 2005 (available on the Web at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/bulletins/).
Modification or modified unit
means an incineration unit you have changed on or after June 16, 2006 and that meets one of two criteria:
(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the unit (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). For an OSWI unit, to determine what systems are within the boundary of the unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of OSWI unit.
(2) Any physical change in the unit or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.
Municipal solid waste
means refuse (and refuse-derived fuel) collected from the general public and from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources consisting of paper, wood, yard wastes, food wastes, plastics, leather, rubber, and other combustible materials and non-combustible materials such as metal, glass and rock, provided that: (1) the term does not include industrial process wastes or medical wastes that are segregated from such other wastes; and (2) an incineration unit shall not be considered to be combusting municipal solid waste for purposes of this subpart if it combusts a fuel feed stream, 30 percent or less of the weight of which is comprised, in aggregate, of municipal solid waste, as determined by § 60.2887(b).
Municipal waste combustion unit
means, for the purpose of this subpart and subpart FFFF of this part, any setting or equipment that combusts municipal solid waste (as defined in this subpart) including, but not limited to, field-erected, modular, cyclonic burn barrel, and custom built incineration units (with or without energy recovery) operating with starved or excess air, boilers, furnaces, pyrolysis/combustion units, and air curtain incinerators (except those air curtain incinerators listed in § 60.2888(b)).
Other solid waste incineration (OSWI) unit
means either a very small municipal waste combustion unit or an institutional waste incineration unit, as defined in this subpart. Unit types listed in § 60.2887 as being excluded from the subpart are not OSWI units subject to this subpart. While not all OSWI units will include all of the following components, an OSWI unit includes, but is not limited to, the municipal or institutional solid waste feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The OSWI unit does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack. The OSWI unit boundary starts at the municipal or institutional waste hopper (if applicable) and extends through two areas:
(1) The combustion unit flue gas system, which ends immediately after the last combustion chamber or after the waste heat recovery equipment, if any; and
(2) The combustion unit bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The OSWI unit includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system.
Particulate matter
means total particulate matter emitted from OSWI units as measured by Method 5 or Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
Pathological waste
means waste material consisting of only human or animal remains, anatomical parts, and/or tissue, the bags/containers used to collect and transport the waste material, and animal bedding (if applicable).
Reconstruction
means rebuilding an incineration unit and meeting two criteria:
(1) The reconstruction begins on or after June 16, 2006.
(2) The cumulative cost of the construction over the life of the incineration unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the unit (not including land) updated to current costs (current dollars). For an OSWI unit, to determine what systems are within the boundary of the unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of OSWI unit.
Refuse-derived fuel
means a type of municipal solid waste produced by processing municipal solid waste through shredding and size classification. This includes all classes of refuse-derived fuel including two fuels:
(1) Low-density fluff refuse-derived fuel through densified refuse-derived fuel.
(2) Pelletized refuse-derived fuel.
Shutdown
means the period of time after all waste has been combusted in the primary chamber. For continuous OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 2 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For intermittent OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 4 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For batch OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 5 hours after the high-air phase of combustion has been completed.
Solid waste
means any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342), or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014).
Standard conditions,
when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).
Startup period
means the period of time between the activation of the system and the first charge to the OSWI unit. For batch OSWI, startup means the period of time between activation of the system and ignition of the waste.
Very small municipal waste combustion unit
means any municipal waste combustion unit that has the capacity to combust less than 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel, as determined by the calculations in § 60.2975.
Waste heat recovery
means the process of recovering heat from the combustion flue gases outside of the combustion firebox by convective heat transfer only.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquor to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
Wood waste
means untreated wood and untreated wood products, including tree stumps (whole or chipped), trees, tree limbs (whole or chipped), bark, sawdust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings. Wood waste does not include:
(1) Grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs from residential, commercial/retail, institutional, or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other private or public lands.
(2) Construction, renovation, or demolition wastes.
(3) Clean lumber.
(4) Treated wood and treated wood products, including wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or pressure treated by compounds such as chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote, or manufactured wood products that contain adhesives or resins (e.g., plywood, particle board, flake board, and oriented strand board).
Yard waste
means grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs. Yard waste comes from residential, commercial/retail, institutional, or industrial sources
as part of maintaining yards or other private or public lands. Yard waste does not include two items:
(1) Construction, renovation, and demolition wastes.
(2) Clean lumber.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27950, June 30, 2025, § 60.2977 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Emission Limitations
As stated in § 60.2915, you must comply with the following:
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission
limitation
a
Using this averaging time
And determining
compliance using this method
1. Cadmium
18 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
2. Carbon monoxide
40 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run during performance test), and 12-hour rolling averages measured using CEMS.
b
Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A of this part and CEMS.
3. Dioxins/furans (total basis)
33 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample meter time per run)
Method 23 of appendix A of this part.
4. Hydrogen chloride
15 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 26A of appendix A of this part.
5. Lead
226 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
6. Mercury
74 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
7. Opacity
10 percent
6-minute average (observe over three 1-hour test runs; i.e., thirty 6-minute averages)
Method 9 of appendix A of this part.
8. Oxides of nitrogen
103 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A of this part, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Methods 7 and 7C only.
9. Particulate matter
0.013 grains per dry standard cubic foot
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 5 or 29 of appendix A of this part.
10. Sulfur dioxide
3.1 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 6 or 6C of appendix A of this part, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Method 6 only.
a
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27951, June 30, 2025, table 1 to subpart EEEE of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 1a

# Table 1
a

# to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Emission Limitations for OSWI Units With Capacities Greater Than 10 Tons per Day That Commenced Construction After August 31, 2020 or Commenced Reconstruction or Modification on or After December 29, 2025
As stated in § 60.2915, you must comply with the following:
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
a
Using this averaging time
And determining compliance using this method
1. Cadmium
18 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
2. Carbon monoxide
40 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run during performance test), and 12-hour rolling averages measured using CEMS
b
Method 10, 10A, or 10B of Appendix A to this part and CEMS.
3. Dioxins/furans (total basis)
33 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample meter time per run)
Method 23 of Appendix A to this part.
4. Hydrogen chloride
15 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 26A of Appendix A to this part.
5. Lead
226 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
6. Mercury
74 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
7. Opacity
10 percent
6-minute average (observe over three 1-hour test runs; i.e., thirty 6-minute averages)
Method 9 of Appendix A to this part, or ASTM D7520-16 (IBR, see § 60.17), if the following conditions are met:
1. During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
2. You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.
3. You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) of this subchapter for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
4. You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
8. Oxides of nitrogen
103 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Methods 7 and 7C only.
9. Particulate matter
0.013 grains per dry standard cubic foot
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 5 or 29 of Appendix A to this part.
10. Sulfur dioxide
3.1 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 6 or 6C of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Method 6 only.
a
All emission limitations (except for opacity and CEMS data during startup and shutdown) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions. CEMS data during startup and shutdown are measured at stack oxygen content.
b
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27951, June 30, 2025, table 1a to subpart EEEE of part 60 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 1b

# Table 1
b

# to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Emission Limitations for OSWI Units With Capacities Less Than or Equal to 10 Tons per Day With That Commenced Construction After August 31, 2020 or Commenced Reconstruction or Modification on or After December 29, 2025
As stated in § 60.2915, you must comply with the following:
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
a
Using this averaging time
And determining compliance using this method
1. Cadmium
400 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
2. Carbon monoxide
69 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run during performance test), and 12-hour rolling averages measured using CEMS
b
Method 10, 10A, or 10B of Appendix A to this part.
3a. Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
c
3,100 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample meter time per run)
Method 23 of Appendix A to this part.
3b. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
c
40 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample meter time per run)
Method 23 of Appendix A to this part.
4. Hydrogen chloride
210 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 26A of Appendix A to this part.
5. Lead
26,000 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
6. Mercury
12 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
7. Opacity
10 percent
6-minute average (observe over three 1-hour test runs; i.e., thirty 6-minute averages)
Method 9 of Appendix A to this part, or ASTM D7520-16 (IBR, see § 60.17), if the following conditions are met:
1. During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
2. You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.
3. You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) of this subchapter for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
4. You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
8. Oxides of nitrogen
180 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Methods 7 and 7C only.
9. Particulate matter
210 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 5 or 29 of Appendix A to this part.
10. Sulfur dioxide
38 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 6 or 6C of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Method 6 only.
a
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.
c
For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27951, June 30, 2025, table 1b to subpart EEEE of part 60 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Operating Limits for Incinerators and Wet Scrubbers
As stated in § 60.2916, you must comply with the following:
For these operating
parameters
You must establish these operating limits
And monitoring using these minimum frequencies
Data measurement
Data recording
Averaging time
1. Charge rate
Maximum charge rate
Continuous
Every hour
Daily for batch units. 3-hour rolling for continuous and intermittent units
a
.
2. Pressure drop across the wet scrubber or amperage to wet scrubber
Minimum pressure drop or amperage
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling
a
.
3. Scrubber liquor flow rate
Minimum flow rate
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling
a
.
4. Scrubber liquor pH
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling
a
.
a
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27953, June 30, 2025, table 2 to subpart EEEE of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Requirements for Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS)
As stated in § 60.2940, you must comply with the following:
For the following
pollutants
Use the following span values for your CEMS
Use the following performance specifications (P.S.) in appendix B of this part for your CEMS
If needed to meet minimum data requirements, use the following alternate methods in appendix A of this part to collect data
1. Carbon Monoxide
125 percent of the maximum hourly potential carbon monoxide emissions of the waste combustion unit
P.S.4A
Method 10.
2. Oxygen
25 percent oxygen
P.S.3
Method 3A or 3B, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Method 3B only.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27953, June 30, 2025, table 3 to subpart EEEE of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. EEEE, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart EEEE of Part 60—Summary of Reporting Requirements
As stated in § 60.2951, you must comply with the following:
Report
Due date
Contents
Reference
1. Preconstruction report
a. Prior to commencing construction
i. Statement of intent to construct;
ii. Anticipated date of commencement of onstruction;
§ 60.2952.
§ 60.2952.
iii. Documentation for siting requirements;
§ 60.2952.
iv. Waste management plan; and
§ 60.2952.
v. Anticipated date of initial startup.
§ 60.2952.
2. Startup notification
a. Prior to initial startup
i. Types of waste to be burned;
ii. Maximum design waste burning capacity;
§ 60.2953.
§ 60.2953.
iii. Anticipated maximum charge rate;
§ 60.2953.
iv. If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits; and
§ 60.2953.
v. Anticipated date of initial startup.
§ 60.2953.
3. Initial test report
a. No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
i. Complete test report for the initial performance test; and
ii. The values for the site-specific operating limits
§ 60.2954.
§ 60.2954.
4. Annual report
a. No later than 12 months following the submission of the initial test report. Subsequent reports are to be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report
i. Company Name and address;
ii. Statement and signature by the owner or operator;
iii. Date of report;
iv. Values for the operating limits;
v. If no deviations or malfunctions were reported, a statement that no deviations occurred during the reporting period;
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
vi. Highest and lowest recorded 12-hour averages, as applicable, for carbon monoxide emissions and highest and lowest recorded 3-hour averages, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported;
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
vii. Information for deviations or malfunctions recorded under § 60.2949(b)(6) and (c) through (e);
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
viii. If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of the test;
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
ix. If a performance test was not conducted during the reporting period, a statement that the requirements of § 60.2934 (a) or (b) were met; and
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
x. Documentation of periods when all qualified OSWI unit operators were unavailable for more than 12 hours but less than 2 weeks.
§§ 60.2955 and 60.2956.
5. Emission limitation or operating limit deviation report
a. By August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year. By February 1 of the following year for data collected during the second half of the calendar year
i. Dates and times of deviation;
ii. Averaged and recorded data for those dates;
iii. Duration and causes of each deviation and the corrective actions taken;
iv. Copy of operating limit monitoring data and any test reports;
v. Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtimes incidents;
vi. Whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction; and
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
vii. Dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.
§§ 60.2957 and 60.2958.
6. Qualified operator deviation notification
a. Within 10 days of deviation
i. Statement of cause of deviation;
ii. Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator; and
§ 60.2959(a)(1).
§ 60.2959(a)(1)
iii. The date a qualified operator will be accessible
§ 60.2959(a)(1).
7. Qualified operation deviation status report
a. Every 4 weeks following deviation
i. Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator;
ii. The date a qualified operator will be accessible; and
§ 60.2959(a)(2).
§ 60.2959(a)(2).
iii. Request to continue operation
§ 60.2959(a)(2).
8. Qualified operator deviation notification of resumed operation
a. Prior to resuming operation
i. Notification that you are resuming operation
§ 60.2959(b).
Note:
This table is only a summary, see the referenced sections of the rule for the complete requirements.
[70 FR 74892, Dec. 16, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 67806, Nov. 24, 2006]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27953, June 30, 2025, table 4 to subpart EEEE of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Subpart FFFF—Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units that Commenced Construction On or Before December 9, 2004

# Source:
70 FR 74907, Dec. 16, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, the subpart FFFF heading was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Introduction
§ 60.2980
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes emission guidelines and compliance schedules for the control of emissions from other solid waste incineration (OSWI) units. The pollutants addressed by these emission guidelines are listed in table 2 of this subpart. These emission guidelines are developed in accordance with sections 111(d) and 129 of the Clean Air Act and subpart B of this part.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2980 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2981
Am I affected by this subpart?
(a) If you are the Administrator of an air quality program in a State or United States protectorate with one or more existing OSWI units or air curtain incinerators subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2994(b) that commenced construction on or before December 9, 2004, you must submit a State plan to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that implements the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.
(b) You must submit the State plan to EPA by December 18, 2006.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2981 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2982
Is a State plan required for all States?
No, you are not required to submit a State plan if there are no existing OSWI units or air curtain incinerators subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2994(b) in your State and you submit a negative declaration letter in place of the State plan.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2982 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2983
What must I include in my State plan?
(a) You must include the following nine items in your State plan:
(1) Inventory of affected incineration units, including those that have ceased operation but have not been dismantled.
(2) Inventory of emissions from affected incineration units in your State.
(3) Compliance schedules for each affected incineration unit.
(4) For each affected incineration unit, emission limitations, operator training and qualification requirements, a waste management plan, and operating parameter requirements that are at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.
(5) Stack testing, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
(6) Transcript of the public hearing on the State plan.
(7) Provision for State progress reports to EPA.
(8) Identification of enforceable State mechanisms that you selected for implementing the emission guidelines of this subpart.
(9) Demonstration of your State's legal authority to carry out the sections 111(d) and 129 in your State plan.
(b) Your State plan may deviate from the format and content of the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. However, if your State plan does deviate, you must demonstrate that your State plan is at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Your State plan must address regulatory applicability, compliance schedule, operator training and qualification, a waste management plan, emission limitations, stack testing, operating parameter requirements, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting, and air curtain incinerator requirements.
(c) You must follow the requirements of subpart B of this part (Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities) in your State plan.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2983 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2984
Is there an approval process for my State plan?
Yes, EPA will review your State plan according to § 60.27.
§ 60.2985
What if my State plan is not approvable?
If you do not submit an approvable State plan (or a negative declaration letter) by December 17, 2007, EPA will develop a Federal plan according to § 60.27 to implement the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Owners and operators of incineration units not covered by an approved State plan must comply with the Federal plan. The Federal plan is an interim action and applies to units until a State plan covering those units is approved and becomes effective.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2985 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2986
Is there an approval process for a negative declaration letter?
No, EPA has no formal review process for negative declaration letters. Once we receive your negative declaration letter, we will place a copy in the public docket and publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
If, at a later date, an existing incineration unit is found in your State, the Federal plan implementing the emission guidelines contained in this subpart would automatically apply to that unit until your State plan is approved.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2986 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2987
What compliance schedule must I include in my State plan?
Your State plan must include compliance schedules that require OSWI units and air curtain incinerators subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2994(b) to achieve final compliance as expeditiously as practicable after approval of the State plan but not later than the earlier of the following two dates:
(a) December 16, 2010.
(b) Three years after the effective date of State plan approval.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2987 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2988
Are there any State plan requirements for this subpart that apply instead of the requirements specified in subpart B of this part?
Yes, subpart B of this part establishes general requirements for developing and processing section 111(d) plans. This subpart applies instead of the requirements in subpart B of this part for the following:
(a) State plans developed to implement this subpart must be as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. State plans must require all OSWI units and air curtain incinerators subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2994(b) to comply by December 16, 2010 or 3 years after the effective date of State plan approval, whichever is sooner. This applies instead of the option for case-by-case less stringent emission standards and longer compliance schedules in § 60.24(f).
(b) State plans developed to implement this subpart are required to include only one increment of progress for the affected incineration units. This increment is the final compliance date in § 60.21(h)(5). This applies instead of the requirement of § 60.24(e)(1).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27955, June 30, 2025, § 60.2988 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2989
Does this subpart directly affect incineration unit owners and operators in my State?
(a) No, this subpart does not directly affect incineration unit owners and operators in your State. However, unit owners and operators must comply with the State plan you develop to implement the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.
(b) If you do not submit an approvable plan to implement and enforce the guidelines contained in this subpart by December 17, 2007, EPA will implement and enforce a Federal plan, as provided in § 60.2985, to ensure that each unit within your State reaches compliance with all the provisions of this subpart by December 16, 2010.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27956, June 30, 2025, § 60.2989 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2990
What Authorities are withheld by EPA?
The following authorities are withheld by EPA and not transferred to the State, local or tribal agency:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the emission limitations in table 2 of this subpart and operating limits established under § 60.3023 and table 3 of this subpart.
(2) Approval of petitions for specific operating limits in § 60.3024.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to test methods.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring.
(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting.
(6) The status report requirements in § 60.3020(c)(2).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27956, June 30, 2025, § 60.2990 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Applicability of State Plans
§ 60.2991
What incineration units must I address in my State plan?
Your State plan must address all incineration units in your State that meet all the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) The incineration unit is an existing incineration unit as defined in § 60.2992.
(b) The incineration unit is an OSWI unit as defined in § 60.3078 or an air curtain incinerator subject to this subpart as described in § 60.2994(b). OSWI units are very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units as defined in § 60.3078.
(c) The incineration unit is not excluded under § 60.2993.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27956, June 30, 2025, § 60.2991 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2992
What is an existing incineration unit?
An existing incineration unit is an OSWI unit or air curtain incinerator subject to this subpart that commenced construction on or before December 9, 2004, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(a) If the owner or operator of an incineration unit makes changes that meet the definition of modification or reconstruction on or after June 16, 2006, the unit becomes subject to subpart EEEE of this part (New Source Performance Standards for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units) and the State plan no longer applies to that unit.
(b) If the owner or operator of an existing incineration unit makes physical or operational changes to the unit primarily to comply with the State plan, then subpart EEEE of this part does not apply to that unit. Such changes do not qualify as modifications or reconstructions under subpart EEEE of this part.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27956, June 30, 2025, § 60.2992 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2993
Are any combustion units excluded from my State plan?
This subpart excludes the types of units described in paragraphs (a) through (q) of this section, as long as the owner/operator meets the requirements of this section.
(a)
Cement kilns.
The unit is excluded if it is regulated under subpart LLL of part 63 of this chapter (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry).
(b)
Co-fired combustors.
The unit, that would otherwise be considered a very small municipal waste combustion unit, is excluded if the owner/operator of the unit meets the five requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Has a Federally enforceable permit limiting the combustion of municipal solid waste to 30 percent of the total fuel input by weight.
(2) Notifies the Administrator that the unit qualifies for the exclusion.
(3) Provides the Administrator with a copy of the Federally enforceable permit.
(4) Records the weights, each calendar quarter, of municipal solid waste and of all other fuels combusted.
(5) Keeps each report for 5 years. These records must be kept on site for at least 2 years, but may be kept off site for the remaining 3 years.
(c)
Cogeneration facilities.
The unit is excluded if it meets the three requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The unit qualifies as a cogeneration facility under section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)).
(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity and steam or other forms of energy used for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
(3) The owner/operator of the unit notifies the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria.
(d)
Commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units.
The unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts CCCC or DDDD of this part or subpart III of part 62 and is required to meet the emission limitations established in those subparts.
(e)
Hazardous waste combustion units.
The unit is excluded if it meets either of the two criteria specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) The owner/operator of the unit is required to get a permit for the unit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act.
(2) The unit is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors).
(f)
Hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators.
The unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts Ce or Ec of this part (New Source Performance Standards and Emission Guidelines for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators) or subpart HHH of part 62 (Federal Plan for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators constructed on or before June 20, 1996).
(g)
Incinerators and air curtain incinerators in isolated areas of Alaska.
The incineration unit is excluded if it is used at a solid waste disposal site in Alaska that is classified as a Class II or Class III municipal solid waste landfill, as defined in § 60.3078.
(h)
Rural institutional waste incinerators.
The incineration unit is excluded if it is an institutional waste incinerator, as defined in § 60.3078, and the application for exclusion described in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section has been approved by the Administrator.
(1) Prior to 1 year before the final compliance date, an application and supporting documentation demonstrating that the institutional waste incineration unit meets the two requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.
(i) The unit is located more than 50 miles from the boundary of the nearest Metropolitan Statistical Area,
(ii) Alternative disposal options are not available or are economically infeasible.
(2) The application described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be revised and resubmitted to the Administrator for approval every 5 years following the initial approval of the exclusion for your unit.
(3) If you re-applied for an exclusion pursuant to paragraph (h)(2) of this section and were denied exclusion by the Administrator, you have 3 years from the expiration date of the current exclusion to comply with the emission limits and all other applicable requirements of this subpart.
(i)
Institutional boilers and process heaters.
The unit is excluded if it is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart DDDDD (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters).
(j)
Laboratory Analysis Units.
The unit is excluded if it burns samples of materials only for the purpose of chemical or physical analysis.
(k)
Materials recovery units.
The unit is excluded if it combusts waste for the primary purpose of recovering metals. Examples include primary and secondary smelters.
(l)
Pathological waste incineration units.
The institutional waste incineration unit or very small municipal waste combustion unit is excluded from this subpart if it burns 90 percent
or more by weight (on a calendar quarter basis and excluding the weight of auxiliary fuel and combustion air) of pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste as defined in § 60.3078 and the owner/operator of the unit notifies the Administrator that the unit meets these criteria.
(m)
Small or large municipal waste combustion units.
The unit is excluded if it is regulated under subparts AAAA, BBBB, Ea, Eb, or Cb, of this part or subparts FFF or JJJ of part 62 and is required to meet the emission limitations established in those subparts.
(n)
Small power production facilities.
The unit is excluded if it meets the three requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The unit qualifies as a small power-production facility under section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)).
(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity.
(3) The owner/operator of the unit notifies the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria.
(o)
Temporary-use incinerators and air curtain incinerators used in disaster recovery.
The incineration unit is excluded if it is used on a temporary basis to combust debris from a disaster or emergency such as a tornado, hurricane, flood, ice storm, high winds, or act of bioterrorism and you comply with the requirements in § 60.3061.
(p)
Units that combust contraband or prohibited goods.
The incineration unit is excluded if the unit is owned or operated by a government agency such as police, customs, agricultural inspection, or a similar agency to destroy only illegal or prohibited goods such as illegal drugs, or agricultural food products that can not be transported into the country or across state lines to prevent biocontamination. The exclusion does not apply to items either confiscated or incinerated by private, industrial, or commercial entities.
(q)
Incinerators used for national security.
Your incineration unit is excluded if it meets the requirements specified in either (q)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) The incineration unit is used solely during military training field exercises to destroy national security materials integral to the field exercises.
(2) The incineration unit is used solely to incinerate national security materials, its use is necessary to safeguard national security, you follow the exclusion request requirements in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, and the Administrator has approved your request for exclusion.
(i) The request for exclusion and supporting documentation must demonstrate both that the incineration unit is used solely to destroy national security materials and that a reliable alternative to incineration that ensures acceptable destruction of national security materials is unavailable, on either a permanent or temporary basis.
(ii) The request for exclusion must be submitted to the Administrator prior to 1 year before the final compliance date.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.2993 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.2994
Are air curtain incinerators regulated under this subpart?
(a) Air curtain incinerators that burn less than 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste or air curtain incinerators located at institutional facilities burning any amount of institutional waste generated at that facility are subject to all requirements of this subpart, including the emission limitations specified in table 2 of this subpart.
(b) Air curtain incinerators that burn only less than 35 tons per day of the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section collected from the general public and from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources; or, air curtain incinerators located at institutional facilities that burn only the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section generated at that facility, are required to meet only the requirements in §§ 60.3062 through 60.3069 and are exempt from all other requirements of this subpart.
(1) 100 percent wood waste.
(2) 100 percent clean lumber.
(3) 100 percent yard waste.
(4) 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.2994 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Use of Model Rule
§ 60.2996
What is the purpose of the “model rule” in this subpart?
(a) The model rule provides the emission guidelines requirements in a standard regulation format. You must develop a State plan that is at least as protective as the model rule. You may use the model rule language as part of your State plan. Alternative language may be used in your State plan if you demonstrate that the alternative language is at least as protective as the model rule contained in this subpart.
(b) In the “model rule” of §§ 60.3000 through 60.3078, “you” means the owner or operator of an OSWI unit or air curtain incinerator subject to this subpart.
§ 60.2997
How does the model rule relate to the required elements of my State plan?
Use the model rule to satisfy the State plan requirements specified in § 60.2983(a)(4) and (5).
§ 60.2998
What are the principal components of the model rule?
The model rule contains nine major components, as follows:
(a) Compliance schedule.
(b) Waste management plan.
(c) Operator training and qualification.
(d) Emission limitations and operating limits.
(e) Performance testing.
(f) Initial compliance requirements.
(g) Continuous compliance requirements.
(h) Monitoring.
(i) Recordkeeping and reporting.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.2998 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Compliance Schedule
§ 60.3000
When must I comply?
Table 1 of this subpart specifies the final compliance date. You must submit a notification to the Administrator stating whether final compliance has been achieved, postmarked within 10 business days after the final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart.
§ 60.3001
What must I do if I close my OSWI unit and then restart it?
(a) If you close your OSWI unit but will reopen it prior to the final compliance date in your State plan, you must meet the final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(b) If you close your OSWI unit but will restart it after your final compliance date, you must complete emission control retrofit and meet the emission limitations on the date your OSWI unit restarts operation. You must conduct your initial performance test within 30 days of restarting your OSWI unit.
§ 60.3002
What must I do if I plan to permanently close my OSWI unit and not restart it?
You must close the unit before the final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
§ 60.3003
What else must I do prior to the compliance date if I meet the substitute means of compliance demonstration?
If you intend to meet the requirements for the substitute means of compliance demonstration requirements in § 60.3032, the requirements in § 60.3032(a) and (b) must be completed prior to the compliance date in table 1 to this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3003 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Waste Management Plan
§ 60.3010
What is a waste management plan?
A waste management plan is a written plan that identifies both the feasibility and the methods used to reduce or separate certain components of solid waste from the waste stream in order to reduce or eliminate toxic emissions from incinerated waste.
§ 60.3011
When must I submit my waste management plan?
You must submit a waste management plan no later than 60 days following the initial performance test as
specified in table 5 of this subpart. Section 60.3031 specifies the date by which you are required to conduct your performance test.
§ 60.3012
What should I include in my waste management plan?
A waste management plan must include consideration of the reduction or separation of waste-stream elements such as paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, batteries, or metals; or the use of recyclable materials. The plan must identify any additional waste management measures and implement those measures the source considers practical and feasible, considering the effectiveness of waste management measures already in place, the costs of additional measures, the emissions reductions expected to be achieved, and any other environmental or energy impacts they might have.

# Model Rule—Operator Training and Qualification
§ 60.3014
What are the operator training and qualification requirements?
(a) No OSWI unit can be operated unless a fully trained and qualified OSWI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified OSWI unit operator may operate the OSWI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified OSWI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in § 60.3020.
(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a State-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Training on the 13 subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section.
(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions.
(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion.
(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, waste charging, and shutdown procedures.
(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring.
(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable).
(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices.
(vii) Methods to monitor pollutants (including monitoring of incinerator and control device operating parameters) and monitoring equipment calibration procedures, where applicable.
(viii) Actions to correct malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(ix) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures.
(x) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards.
(xi) Pollution prevention.
(xii) Waste management practices.
(xiii) Recordkeeping requirements.
(2) An examination designed and administered by the instructor.
(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3014 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3015
When must the operator training course be completed?
The operator training course must be completed by the latest of the three dates specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) The final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(b) Six months after your OSWI unit startup.
(c) Six months after an employee assumes responsibility for operating the OSWI unit or assumes responsibility for supervising the operation of the OSWI unit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3015 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3016
How do I obtain my operator qualification?
(a) You must obtain operator qualification by completing a training course that satisfies the criteria under § 60.3014(c).
(b) Qualification is valid from the date on which the training course is completed and the operator successfully passes the examination required under § 60.3014(c)(2).
§ 60.3017
How do I maintain my operator qualification?
To maintain qualification, you must complete an annual review or refresher course covering, at a minimum, the five topics described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Update of regulations.
(b) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures, waste charging, and ash handling.
(c) Inspection and maintenance.
(d) Responses to malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(e) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3017 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3018
How do I renew my lapsed operator qualification?
You must renew a lapsed operator qualification by one of the two methods specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For a lapse of less than 3 years, you must complete a standard annual refresher course described in § 60.3017.
(b) For a lapse of 3 years or more, you must repeat the initial qualification requirements in § 60.3016(a).
§ 60.3019
What site-specific documentation is required?
(a) Documentation must be available at the facility and readily accessible for all OSWI unit operators that addresses the nine topics described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. You must maintain this information and the training records required by paragraph (c) of this section in a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection upon request.
(1) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart.
(2) Procedures for receiving, handling, and charging waste.
(3) Incinerator startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures.
(4) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels.
(5) Procedures for operating the incinerator and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart.
(6) Monitoring procedures for demonstrating compliance with the operating limits established under this subpart.
(7) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(8) The waste management plan required under §§ 60.3010 through 60.3012.
(9) Procedures for handling ash.
(b) You must establish a program for reviewing the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section with each incinerator operator.
(1) The initial review of the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted by the latest of three dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(ii) Six months after your OSWI unit startup.
(iii) Six months after an employee assumes responsibility for operating the OSWI unit or assumes responsibility for supervising the operation of the OSWI unit.
(2) Subsequent annual reviews of the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted not later than 12 months following the previous review.
(c) You must also maintain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Records showing the names of OSWI unit operators who have completed review of the information in paragraph (a) of this section as required by paragraph (b) of this section, including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(2) Records showing the names of the OSWI unit operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.3014, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.3016, and
maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.3017 or § 60.3018. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(3) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3019 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3020
What if all the qualified operators are temporarily not accessible?
If all qualified operators are temporarily not accessible (
i.e.
, not at the facility and not able to be at the facility within 1 hour), you must meet one of the three criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, depending on the length of time that a qualified operator is not accessible.
(a) When all qualified operators are not accessible for 12 hours or less, the OSWI unit may be operated by other plant personnel familiar with the operation of the OSWI unit who have completed review of the information specified in § 60.3019(a) within the past 12 months. You do not need to notify the Administrator or include this as a deviation in your annual report.
(b) When all qualified operators are not accessible for more than 12 hours, but less than 2 weeks, the OSWI unit may be operated by other plant personnel familiar with the operation of the OSWI unit who have completed a review of the information specified in § 60.3019(a) within the past 12 months. However, you must record the period when all qualified operators were not accessible and include this deviation in the annual report as specified under § 60.3051.
(c) When all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions that are described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator of this deviation in writing within 10 days. In the notice, state what caused this deviation, what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, and when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(2) Submit a status report to EPA every 4 weeks outlining what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, stating when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible and requesting approval from EPA to continue operation of the OSWI unit. You must submit the first status report 4 weeks after you notify the Administrator of the deviation under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If EPA notifies you that your request to continue operation of the OSWI unit is disapproved, the OSWI unit may continue operation for 90 days, then must cease operation. Operation of the unit may resume if you meet the two requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A qualified operator is accessible as required under § 60.3014(a).
(ii) You notify EPA that a qualified operator is accessible and that you are resuming operation.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27957, June 30, 2025, § 60.3020 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Emission Limitations and Operating Limits
§ 60.3022
What emission limitations must I meet and by when?
You must meet the emission limitations specified in table 2 of this subpart on the date the initial performance test is required or completed (whichever is earlier). Section 60.3031 specifies the date by which you are required to conduct your performance test.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27958, June 30, 2025, § 60.3022 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3023
What operating limits must I meet and by when?
(a) If you use a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations, you must establish operating limits for four operating parameters (as specified in table 3 of this subpart) as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section during the initial performance test.
(1) Maximum charge rate, calculated using one of the two different procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) For continuous and intermittent units, maximum charge rate is the average charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(ii) For batch units, maximum charge rate is the charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(2) Minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber, which is calculated as the average pressure drop across the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter emission limitations; or minimum amperage to the wet scrubber, which is calculated as the average amperage to the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter emission limitations.
(3) Minimum scrubber liquor flow rate, which is calculated as the average liquor flow rate at the inlet to the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limitations.
(4) Minimum scrubber liquor pH, which is calculated as the average liquor pH at the inlet to the wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the hydrogen chloride and sulfur dioxide emission limitations.
(b) You must meet the operating limits established during the initial performance test beginning on the date 180 days after your final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27958, June 30, 2025, § 60.3023 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3024
What if I do not use a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations?
If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber or limit emissions in some other manner to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.3022, you must petition EPA for specific operating limits, the values of which are to be established during the initial performance test and then continuously monitored thereafter. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by EPA. Your petition must include the five items listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as operating limits.
(b) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants.
(c) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters that will establish the operating limits on these parameters.
(d) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments.
(e) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27958, June 30, 2025, § 60.3024 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3025
What happens during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction?
The emission limitations and operating limits apply at all times except during OSWI unit startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27959, June 30, 2025, § 60.3025 was removed, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Performance Testing
§ 60.3027
How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?
(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.
(b) All performance tests must be conducted using the methods in table 2 of this subpart.
(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in table 2 of this subpart.
(d) Method 1 of appendix A of this part must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.
(e) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used simultaneously with each method.
(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 in § 60.3076.
(g) Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used for hydrogen chloride concentration analysis, with the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The probe and filter must be conditioned prior to sampling using the procedure described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Assemble the sampling train(s) and conduct a conditioning run by collecting between 14 liters per minute (0.5 cubic feet per minute) and 30 liters per minute (1.0 cubic feet per minute) of gas over a 1-hour period. Follow the sampling procedures outlined in section 8.1.5 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part. For the conditioning run, water can be used as the impinger solution.
(ii) Remove the impingers from the sampling train and replace with a fresh impinger train for the sampling run, leaving the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) in position. Do not recover the filter or rinse the probe before the first run. Thoroughly rinse the impingers used in the preconditioning run with deionized water and discard these rinses.
(iii) The probe and filter assembly are conditioned by the stack gas and are not recovered or cleaned until the end of testing.
(2) For the duration of sampling, a temperature around the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) between 120 °C (248 °F) and 134 °C (273 °F) must be maintained.
(3) If water droplets are present in the sample gas stream, the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section must be met.
(i) The cyclone described in section 6.1.4 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.
(ii) The post-test moisture removal procedure described in section 8.1.6 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27959, June 30, 2025, § 60.3027 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3028
How are the performance test data used?
You use results of performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations in table 2 of this subpart.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27959, June 30, 2025, § 60.3028 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 60.3030
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and establish the operating limits?
You must conduct an initial performance test, as required under § 60.8, to determine compliance with the emission limitations in table 2 of this subpart and to establish operating limits using the procedure in § 60.3023 or § 60.3024. The initial performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 2 of this subpart and the procedures in § 60.3027.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27959, June 30, 2025, § 60.3030 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3031
By what date must I conduct the initial performance test?
The initial performance test must be conducted no later than 180 days after your final compliance date. Your final compliance date is specified in table 1 of this subpart.
§ 60.3032
What are the substitute means of compliance demonstration requirements for very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units with capacities less than or equal to 10 tons per day?
Instead of conducting the initial performance test in § 60.3030(a), very small municipal waste combustion units and institutional waste incineration units with capacities less than or equal to 10 tons per day may demonstrate initial compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a) For each very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit for which you are using the substitute means of compliance demonstration, beginning on the effective date of your state plan approval, or July 1, 2030 whichever date is earlier, you must collect the data in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section until you meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Identity and weight of each waste type (
e.g.,
lbs of paper waste, food waste, wood or yard waste) on a weekly total basis for the date range the information is collected.
(2) Identity and quantities (
e.g.,
flow rate or percentage of operating time) of supplemental fuels burned on a weekly total basis for the date range the information is collected.
(3) Percentage of total waste burned for each waste type on a weekly average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(4) Temperature indicative of the combustion chamber and description of where temperature is measured. Record this information on a 3-hour rolling average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(5) Hours operated per day for the date range the information is collected.
(6) Charge rate each day in tons per day for the date range the information is collected.
(7) Operating parameter data for any air pollution control devices. For wet scrubbers, include pressure drop across the scrubber or amperage to the scrubber, scrubber liquor inlet flow rate, and scrubber liquor pH at the outlet of the scrubber. For dry scrubbers, include injection rate of each sorbent used. For electrostatic precipitators, include the secondary voltage, secondary amperage, and secondary power. Record this information on a 3-hour rolling average basis for the date range the information is collected.
(b) On or before 3 years after the effective date of state plan approval, or July 1, 2030, whichever is earlier, you must identify the results of a performance test in the EPA's WebFIRE database that is representative for your very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit using the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section and submit the information in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. You must submit the information following the procedure in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The performance test may be any test that meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, regardless of location, that is representative of your OSWI unit.
(1) Identify the representative performance test used to demonstrate initial compliance with each very small municipal waste combustion unit or institutional waste incineration unit by submitting the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section as provided in the EPA's WebFIRE database for the performance test.
(i) Organization.
(ii) Facility.
(iii) City.
(iv) State.
(v) County.
(vi) Submission date.
(2) Describe how the test is representative for your unit, based on the following criteria, using the data collected as specified in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Unit design, including type of unit and any associated air pollution control devices.
(ii) Charge rate.
(iii) Type of operation (batch, continuous, intermittent).
(iv) Combustion temperature and location of temperature measurement.
(v) Type(s) of waste burned.
(vi) Waste profile, as defined in § 60.3078.
(vii) Type and amount of supplemental fuels.
(viii) Similarity of air pollution control devices and operation of the air pollution control devices, if the performance test was conducted on a unit with an air pollution control device.
(3) You must submit the information required in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. If you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit the information, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim as CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(i) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqps_cbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Other Solid Waste Incinerator Units Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqps_cbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(ii) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and Other Solid Waste Incinerator Units Sector Lead, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(c) Any performance test used as a representative test in a substitute means of compliance demonstration under paragraph (b) of this section must be conducted according to the initial testing requirements of § 60.3027 and demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limits in table 2a to this subpart. In addition to the results of the performance test and the information required by § 60.8(f)(2), the performance test report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Unit design, including type of unit and any associated air pollution control devices.
(2) Charge rate during the test.
(3) Type of operation (batch, continuous, intermittent).
(4) Combustion temperature and location of temperature measurement. The temperature must be recorded continuously for each run of the performance test. The performance test report must also identify the lowest 1-hour average combustion chamber operating temperature.
(5) Types of waste burned during the test.
(6) Waste profile, as defined in § 60.3078, established during the test.
(7) Type and amount of supplemental fuels burned during the test and the timeframe that each supplemental fuel was burned during the test.
(8) If the performance test was conducted on a unit with an air pollution control device, the operating parameter data for the control device must be recorded continuously for each run of the performance test. The performance test report must also identify the
lowest or highest, as applicable, 1-hour average for the operating parameter.
(i) For wet scrubbers, the performance test report must include data for pressure drop across the scrubber or amperage to the scrubber, scrubber liquor inlet flow rate, and scrubber liquor pH at the outlet of the scrubber.
(ii) For dry scrubbers, the performance test report must include data for the injection rate of each sorbent used.
(iii) For electrostatic precipitators, the performance test report must include data for the secondary voltage, secondary amperage, and secondary power.
(d) If there are no results from a performance test that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section that are representative of your OSWI unit, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to the requirements of § 60.3030(a).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27959, June 30, 2025, § 60.3032 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 60.3033
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?
(a) You must conduct an annual performance test for all of the pollutants in table 2 of this subpart for each OSWI unit to determine compliance with the emission limitations. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 2 of this subpart and the procedures in § 60.3027.
(b) You must continuously monitor carbon monoxide emissions to determine compliance with the carbon monoxide emissions limitation. Twelve-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance. A 12-hour rolling average value above the carbon monoxide emission limit in table 2 constitutes a deviation from the emission limitation.
(c) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 60.3023 or established under § 60.3024. Three-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance with the operating limits unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.3024. A 3-hour rolling average value (unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.3024) above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits constitutes a deviation from the established operating limits. Operating limits do not apply during performance tests.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27961, June 30, 2025, § 60.3033 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3034
By what date must I conduct the annual performance test?
You must conduct annual performance tests within 12 months following the initial performance test. Conduct subsequent annual performance tests within 12 months following the previous one.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27961, June 30, 2025, § 60.3034 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3035
May I conduct performance testing less often?
(a) You can test less often for a given pollutant if you have test data for at least three consecutive annual tests, and all performance tests for the pollutant over that period show that you comply with the emission limitation. In this case, you do not have to conduct a performance test for that pollutant for the next 2 years. You must conduct a performance test during the 3rd year and no more than 36 months following the previous performance test.
(b) If your OSWI unit continues to meet the emission limitation for the pollutant, you may choose to conduct performance tests for that pollutant every 3rd year, but each test must be within 36 months of the previous performance test.
(c) If a performance test shows a deviation from an emission limitation for any pollutant, you must conduct annual performance tests for that pollutant until three consecutive annual performance tests for that pollutant all show compliance.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27961, June 30, 2025, § 60.3035 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3036
May I conduct a repeat performance test to establish new operating limits?
Yes, you may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27961, June 30, 2025, § 60.3036 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Monitoring
§ 60.3038
What continuous emission monitoring systems must I install?
(a) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate continuous emission monitoring systems for carbon monoxide and for oxygen. You must monitor the oxygen concentration at each location where you monitor carbon monoxide.
(b) You must install, evaluate, and operate each continuous emission monitoring system according to the “Monitoring Requirements” in § 60.13.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27962, June 30, 2025, § 60.3038 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3039
How do I make sure my continuous emission monitoring systems are operating correctly?
(a) Conduct initial, daily, quarterly, and annual evaluations of your continuous emission monitoring systems that measure carbon monoxide and oxygen.
(b) Complete your initial evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring systems within 180 days after your final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart.
(c) For initial and annual evaluations, collect data concurrently (or within 30 to 60 minutes) using your carbon monoxide and oxygen continuous emission monitoring systems. To validate carbon monoxide concentration levels, use EPA Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A of this part. Use EPA Method 3 or 3A to measure oxygen. Collect the data during each initial and annual evaluation of your continuous emission monitoring systems following the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part. table 4 of this subpart shows the required span values and performance specifications that apply to each continuous emission monitoring system.
(d) Follow the quality assurance procedures in Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part for each continuous emission monitoring system. The procedures include daily calibration drift and quarterly accuracy determinations.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27962, June 30, 2025, § 60.3039 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3040
What is my schedule for evaluating continuous emission monitoring systems?
(a) Conduct annual evaluations of your continuous emission monitoring systems no more than 12 months after the previous evaluation was conducted.
(b) Evaluate your continuous emission monitoring systems daily and quarterly as specified in appendix F of this part.
§ 60.3041
What is the minimum amount of monitoring data I must collect with my continuous emission monitoring systems, and is the data collection requirement enforceable?
(a) Where continuous emission monitoring systems are required, obtain 1-hour arithmetic averages. Make sure the averages for carbon monoxide are in parts per million by dry volume at 7 percent oxygen. Use the 1-hour averages of oxygen data from your continuous emission monitoring system to determine the actual oxygen level and to calculate emissions at 7 percent oxygen.
(b) Obtain at least two data points per hour in order to calculate a valid 1-hour arithmetic average. Section 60.13(e)(2) requires your continuous emission monitoring systems to complete at least one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each 15-minute period.
(c) Obtain valid 1-hour averages for at least 75 percent of the operating hours per day for at least 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter. An operating day is any day the unit combusts any municipal or institutional solid waste.
(d) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, you have deviated from the data collection requirement
regardless of the emission level monitored.
(e) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, you must still use all valid data from the continuous emission monitoring systems in calculating emission concentrations.
(f) If continuous emission monitoring systems are temporarily unavailable to meet the data collection requirements, refer to table 4 of this subpart. It shows alternate methods for collecting data when systems malfunction or when repairs, calibration checks, or zero and span checks keep you from collecting the minimum amount of data.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27962, June 30, 2025, § 60.3041 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3042
How do I convert my 1-hour arithmetic averages into the appropriate averaging times and units?
(a) Use Equation 1 in § 60.3076 to calculate emissions at 7 percent oxygen.
(b) Use Equation 2 in § 60.3076 to calculate the 12-hour rolling averages for concentrations of carbon monoxide.
§ 60.3043
What operating parameter monitoring equipment must I install, and what operating parameters must I monitor?
(a) If you are using a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.3022, you must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate devices (or establish methods) for monitoring the value of the operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits listed in table 3 of this subpart. These devices (or methods) must measure and record the values for these operating parameters at the frequencies indicated in table 3 of this subpart at all times.
(b) You must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device or method for measuring the use of any stack that could be used to bypass the control device. The measurement must include the date, time, and duration of the use of the bypass stack.
(c) If you are using a method or air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber to comply with the emission limitations under § 60.3022, you must install, calibrate (to the manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate the equipment necessary to monitor compliance with the site-specific operating limits established using the procedures in § 60.3024.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27962, June 30, 2025, § 60.3043 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3044
Is there a minimum amount of operating parameter monitoring data I must obtain?
(a) Except for monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments of the monitoring system), you must conduct all monitoring at all times the OSWI unit is operating.
(b) You must obtain valid monitoring data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours per day for at least 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter. An operating day is any day the unit combusts any municipal or institutional solid waste.
(c) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you have deviated from the data collection requirement regardless of the operating parameter level monitored.
(d) Do not use data recorded during monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or quality control activities for meeting the requirements of this subpart, including data averages and calculations. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance with the operating limits.

# Model Rule—Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 60.3046
What records must I keep?
You must maintain the 14 items (as applicable) as specified in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section for a period of at least 5 years.
(a) Calendar date of each record.
(b) Records of the data described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The OSWI unit charge dates, times, weights, and hourly charge rates.
(2) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(3) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system every 15 minutes of operation or amperage to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(4) Liquor pH as introduced to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.
(5) For OSWI units that establish operating limits for controls other than wet scrubbers under § 60.3024, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits.
(6) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions.
(7) All 12-hour rolling average values of carbon monoxide emissions and all 3-hour rolling average values of continuously monitored operating parameters.
(8) Records of the dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.
(c) Identification of calendar dates and times for which continuous emission monitoring systems or monitoring systems used to monitor operating limits were inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, or out of control (except for downtime associated with zero and span and other routine calibration checks). Identify the pollutant emissions or operating parameters not measured, the duration, reasons for not obtaining the data, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(d) Identification of calendar dates, times, and durations of malfunctions, and a description of the malfunction and the corrective action taken.
(e) Identification of calendar dates and times for which monitoring data show a deviation from the carbon monoxide emissions limit in table 2 of this subpart or a deviation from the operating limits in table 3 of this subpart or a deviation from other operating limits established under § 60.3024 with a description of the deviations, reasons for such deviations, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(f) Calendar dates when continuous monitoring systems did not collect the minimum amount of data required under §§ 60.3041 and 60.3044.
(g) For carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring systems, document the results of your daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations according to Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part.
(h) Records of the calibration of any monitoring devices required under § 60.3043.
(i) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable. Retain a copy of the complete test report including calculations and a description of the types of waste burned during the test.
(j) Records showing the names of OSWI unit operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.3019(a) as required by § 60.3019(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(k) Records showing the names of the OSWI unit operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.3014, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.3016, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.3017 or § 60.3018. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(l) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.
(m) Equipment vendor specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.
(n) The information listed in § 60.3019(a).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27963, June 30, 2025, § 60.3046 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3047
Where and in what format must I keep my records?
(a) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(b) All records must be available in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
§ 60.3048
What reports must I submit?
See table 5 of this subpart for a summary of the reporting requirements.
§ 60.3049
What information must I submit following my initial performance test?
You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports must be signed by the facilities manager.
(a) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained under § 60.3030, as applicable.
(b) The values for the site-specific operating limits established in § 60.3023 or § 60.3024.
(c) The waste management plan, as specified in §§ 60.3010 through 60.3012.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27963, June 30, 2025, § 60.3049 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3050
When must I submit my annual report?
You must submit an annual report no later than 12 months following the submission of the information in § 60.3049. You must submit subsequent reports no more than 12 months following the previous report.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27963, June 30, 2025, § 60.3050 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3051
What information must I include in my annual report?
The annual report required under § 60.3050 must include the ten items listed in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. If you have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations, you must also submit deviation reports as specified in §§ 60.3052 through 60.3054.
(a) Company name and address.
(b) Statement by the owner or operator, with their name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).
(c) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(d) The values for the operating limits established pursuant to § 60.3023 or § 60.3024.
(e) If no deviation from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you has been reported, a statement that there was no deviation from the emission limitations or operating limits during the reporting period, and that no monitoring system used to determine compliance with the emission limitations or operating limits was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning or out of control.
(f) The highest recorded 12-hour average and the lowest recorded 12-hour average, as applicable, for carbon monoxide emissions and the highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported.
(g) Information recorded under § 60.3046(b)(6) and (c) through (e) for the calendar year being reported.
(h) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that test.
(i) If you met the requirements of § 60.3035(a) or (b), and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must state that you met the requirements of § 60.3035(a) or (b), and, therefore, you were not required to conduct a performance test during the reporting period.
(j) Documentation of periods when all qualified OSWI unit operators were unavailable for more than 12 hours, but less than 2 weeks.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27963, June 30, 2025, § 60.3051 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3052
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations?
(a) You must submit a deviation report if any recorded 3-hour average parameter level is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart, if any recorded 12-hour average carbon monoxide emission rate is above the emission limitation, if the
control device was bypassed, or if a performance test was conducted that showed a deviation from any emission limitation.
(b) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27964, June 30, 2025, § 60.3052 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3053
What must I include in the deviation report?
In each report required under § 60.3052, for any pollutant or operating parameter that deviated from the emission limitations or operating limits specified in this subpart, include the seven items described in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limitations or operating limit requirements.
(b) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(c) Durations and causes of each deviation from the emission limitations or operating limits and your corrective actions.
(d) A copy of the operating limit monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.
(e) The dates, times, number, duration, and causes for monitor downtime incidents (other than downtime associated with zero, span, and other routine calibration checks).
(f) Whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, or during another period.
(g) The dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27964, June 30, 2025, § 60.3053 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3054
What else must I report if I have a deviation from the requirement to have a qualified operator accessible?
(a) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A statement of what caused the deviation.
(ii) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(iii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.
(2) Submit a status report to EPA every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A description of what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(ii) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(iii) Request approval from EPA to continue operation of the OSWI unit.
(b) If your unit was shut down by EPA, under the provisions of § 60.3020(c)(2), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator, you must notify EPA that you are resuming operation once a qualified operator is accessible.
§ 60.3055
Are there any other notifications or reports that I must submit?
Yes, you must submit notifications as provided by § 60.7.
§ 60.3056
In what form can I submit my reports?
Submit initial, annual, and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27965, June 30, 2025, § 60.3056 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3057
Can reporting dates be changed?
If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.

# Model Rule—Title V Operating Permits
§ 60.3059
Am I required to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit for my unit?
(a) Yes, if your OSWI unit is an existing incineration unit subject to an applicable EPA-approved and effective Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 State or Tribal plan or an applicable and effective Federal plan, you are required to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit unless you meet the relevant requirements for an exemption specified in § 60.2993, or unless your unit is an air curtain incinerator exempt under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) If you own or operate an air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste; clean lumber; yard waste; or a mixture of wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste and is subject only to the requirements in §§ 60.3062 through 60.3068, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit, provided that your air curtain incinerator is not otherwise required to obtain a title V operating permit.
[89 FR 89932, Nov. 14, 2024]
§ 60.3060
When must I submit a title V permit application for my existing unit?
(a)(1) If your existing unit is not subject to an earlier title V permit application deadline, a complete title V permit application must be submitted on or before the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. (See sections 129(e), 503(c), 503(d), and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i) and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(i) 12 months after the effective date of any applicable EPA-approved Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 State or Tribal plan.
(ii) 12 months after the effective date of any applicable Federal plan.
(iii) December 16, 2008.
(2) For any existing unit not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, the application deadline of 36 months after the promulgation of 40 CFR part 60, subpart FFFF, applies regardless of whether or when any applicable Federal plan is effective, or whether or when any applicable Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 State or Tribal plan is approved by EPA and becomes effective.
(b) If your existing unit is subject to title V as a result of some triggering requirement(s) other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section (for example, a unit may be a major source or part of a major source), then your unit may be required to apply for a title V permit prior to the deadlines specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If more than one requirement triggers a source's obligation to apply for a title V permit, the 12-month timeframe for filing a title V permit application is triggered by the requirement which first causes the source to be subject to title V. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i), 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b), and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(c) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 40 CFR 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. (See sections 503(d) and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 40 CFR 71.7(b).)
(d) If you own or operate an air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste; clean lumber; yard waste; or a mixture of wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste and is subject only to the requirements in §§ 60.3062 through 60.3068, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit, provided that your air curtain incinerator is not otherwise required to obtain a title V operating permit.
[89 FR 89932, Nov. 14, 2024]

# Model Rule—Temporary-Use Incinerators and Air Curtain Incinerators Used in Disaster Recovery
§ 60.3061
What are the requirements for temporary-use incinerators and air curtain incinerators used in disaster recovery?
Your incinerator or air curtain incinerator is excluded from the requirements of this subpart if it is used on a temporary basis to combust debris from a disaster or emergency such as a tornado, hurricane, flood, ice storm, high winds, or act of bioterrorism. To qualify for this exclusion, the incinerator or air curtain incinerator must be used to combust debris in an area declared a State of Emergency by a local or State government, or the President, under the authority of the Stafford Act, has declared that an emergency or a major disaster exists in the area, and you must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) If the incinerator or air curtain incinerator is used during a period that begins on the date the unit started operation and lasts 8 weeks or less within the boundaries of the same emergency or disaster declaration area, then it is excluded from the requirements of this subpart. You do not need to notify the Administrator of its use or meet the emission limitations or other requirements of this subpart.
(b) If the incinerator or air curtain incinerator will be used during a period that begins on the date the unit started operation and lasts more than 8 weeks within the boundaries of the same emergency or disaster declaration area, you must notify the Administrator that the temporary-use incinerator or air curtain incinerator will be used for more than 8 weeks and request permission to continue to operate the unit as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The notification must be submitted in writing by the date 8 weeks after you start operation of the temporary-use incinerator or air curtain incinerator within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area.
(2) The notification must contain the date the incinerator or air curtain incinerator started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area, identification of the disaster or emergency for which the incinerator or air curtain incinerator is being used, a description of the types of materials being burned in the incinerator or air curtain incinerator, a brief description of the size and design of the unit (for example, an air curtain incinerator or a modular starved-air incinerator), the reasons the incinerator or air curtain incinerator must be operated for more than 8 weeks, and the amount of time for which you request permission to operate including the date you expect to cease operation of the unit.
(c) If you submitted the notification containing the information in paragraph (b)(2) by the date specified in paragraph (b)(1), you may continue to operate the incinerator or air curtain incinerator for another 8 weeks, which is a total of 16 weeks from the date the unit started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area. You do not have to meet the emission limitations or other requirements of this subpart during this period.
(1) At the end of 16 weeks from the date the incinerator or air curtain incinerator started operation within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area, you must cease operation of the unit or comply with all requirements of this subpart, unless the Administrator has approved in writing your request to continue operation.
(2) If the Administrator has approved in writing your request to continue operation, then you may continue to operate the incinerator or air curtain incinerator within the boundaries of the current emergency or disaster declaration area until the date specified in the approval, and you do not need to comply with any other requirements of this subpart during the approved time period.

# Model Rule—Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn Only Wood Waste, Clean Lumber, and Yard Waste
§ 60.3062
What is an air curtain incinerator?
(a) An air curtain incinerator operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open, integrated combustion chamber (fire box) or open pit or trench (trench burner) in which combustion occurs. For the purpose of this subpart and subpart EEEE of this part only, air curtain incinerators include both firebox and trench burner units.
(b) Air curtain incinerators that burn only the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are required to meet only the requirements in §§ 60.3062 through 60.3069 and are exempt from all other requirements of this subpart.
(1) 100 percent wood waste.
(2) 100 percent clean lumber.
(3) 100 percent yard waste.
(4) 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3062 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3063
When must I comply if my air curtain incinerator burns only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
Table 1 of this subpart specifies the final compliance date. You must submit a notification to the Administrator postmarked within 10 business days after the final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart.
§ 60.3064
What must I do if I close my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste and then restart it?
(a) If you close your incinerator but will reopen it prior to the final compliance date in your State plan, you must meet the final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
(b) If you close your incinerator but will restart it after your final compliance date, you must meet the emission limitations on the date your incinerator restarts operation.
§ 60.3065
What must I do if I plan to permanently close my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste and not restart it?
You must close the unit before the final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.
§ 60.3066
What are the emission limitations for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Within 180 days after your final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart, you must meet the two limitations specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The opacity limitation is 10 percent (6-minute average), except as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The opacity limitation is 35 percent (6-minute average) during the startup period that is within the first 30 minutes of operation.
(b) The limitations in paragraph (a) of this section apply at all times except during malfunctions.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3066 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3067
How must I monitor opacity for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Use Method 9 of appendix A of this part to determine compliance with the opacity limitation.
(b) Conduct an initial test for opacity as specified in § 60.8 within 180 days after the final compliance date in table 1 of this subpart.
(c) After the initial test for opacity, conduct annual tests no more than 12 months following the date of your previous test.
(d) If the air curtain incinerator has been out of operation for more than 12 months following the date of your previous test, then you must conduct a test for opacity upon startup of the unit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3067 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3068
What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?
(a) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years. You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(b) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's review.
(c) You must submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the initial opacity tests no later than 60 days following the initial test. Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.
(d) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date.
(e) Keep a copy of the initial and annual reports for a period of 5 years. You must keep each report on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the reports off site for the remaining 3 years.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3068 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
§ 60.3069
[Reserved]

# Model Rule—Equations
§ 60.3076
What equations must I use?
(a)
Percent oxygen.
Adjust all pollutant concentrations to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 of this section.
ER16dE05.002
Where:
C
adj
= pollutant concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen
C
meas
= pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis
(20.9-7) = 20.9 percent oxygen-7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis)
20.9 = oxygen concentration in air, percent
%O
2
= oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent
(b)
Capacity of a very small municipal waste combustion unit.
For very small municipal waste combustion units that can operate continuously for 24-hour periods, calculate the unit capacity based on 24 hours of operation at the maximum charge rate. To determine the maximum charge rate, use one of two methods:
(1) For very small municipal waste combustion units with a design based on heat input capacity, calculate the maximum charging rate based on the maximum heat input capacity and one of two heating values:
(i) If your very small municipal waste combustion unit combusts refuse-derived fuel, use a heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram (5,500 British thermal units per pound).
(ii) If your very small municipal waste combustion unit combusts municipal solid waste, use a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram (4,500 British thermal units per pound).
(2) For very small municipal waste combustion units with a design not based on heat input capacity, use the maximum design charging rate.
(c)
Capacity of a batch very small municipal waste combustion unit.
Calculate the capacity of a batch OSWI unit as the maximum design amount of municipal solid waste it can charge per batch multiplied by the maximum number of batches it can process in 24 hours. Calculate the maximum number of batches by dividing 24 by the number of hours needed to process one batch. Retain fractional batches in the calculation. For example, if one batch requires 16 hours, the OSWI unit can combust 24/16, or 1.5 batches, in 24 hours.
(d)
Carbon monoxide pollutant rate.
When hourly average pollutant rates (E
h
) are obtained (e.g., CEMS values), compute the rolling average carbon monoxide pollutant rate (E
a
) for each 12-hour period using the following equation:
ER16DE05.003
Where:
E
a
= Average carbon monoxide pollutant rate for the 12-hour period, ppm corrected to 7 percent O
2
.
E
hj
= Hourly arithmetic average pollutant rate for hour “j,” ppm corrected to 7 percent O
2
.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3076 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.

# Model Rule—Definitions
§ 60.3078
What definitions must I know?
Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and subpart A (General Provisions) of this part.
Administrator
means:
(1) For approved and effective State section 111(d)/129 plans, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or his or her delegatee;
(2) For Federal section 111(d)/129 plans, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task; and
(3) For NSPS, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task.
Air curtain incinerator
means an incineration unit operating by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open, integrated combustion chamber (fire box) or open pit or trench (trench burner) in which combustion occurs. For the purpose of this subpart and subpart EEEE only, air curtain incinerators include both firebox and trench burner units.
Auxiliary fuel
means natural gas, liquified petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.
Batch OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed such that neither waste charging nor ash removal can occur during combustion.
Calendar quarter
means three consecutive months (nonoverlapping) beginning on: January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.
Calendar year
means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.
Chemotherapeutic waste
means waste material resulting from the production or use of anti-neoplastic agents used for the purpose of stopping or reversing the growth of malignant cells.
Class II municipal solid waste landfill
means a landfill that meets four criteria:
(1) Accepts, for incineration or disposal, less than 20 tons per day of municipal solid waste or other solid wastes based on an annual average;
(2) Is located on a site where there is no evidence of groundwater pollution caused or contributed to by the landfill;
(3) Is not connected by road to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, as defined by Alaska regulatory code 18 AAC 60.300(c) or, if connected by road, is located more than 50 miles from a Class I municipal solid waste landfill; and
(4) Serves a community that meets one of two criteria:
(i) Experiences for at least three months each year, an interruption in access to surface transportation, preventing access to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill; or
(ii) Has no practicable waste management alternative, with a landfill located in an area that annually receives 25 inches or less of precipitation.
Class III municipal solid waste landfill
is a landfill that is not connected by road to a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, as defined by Alaska regulatory code 18 AAC 60.300(c) or, if connected by road, is located more than 50 miles from a Class I municipal solid waste landfill, and that accepts, for disposal, either of the following two criteria:
(1) Ash from incinerated municipal waste in quantities less than one ton per day on an annual average, which ash must be free of food scraps that might attract animals; or
(2) Less than five tons per day of municipal solid waste, based on an annual average, and is not located in a place that meets either of the following criteria:
(i) Where public access is restricted, including restrictions on the right to move to the place and reside there; or
(ii) That is provided by an employer and that is populated totally by persons who are required to reside there as a condition of employment and who do
not consider the place to be their permanent residence.
Clean lumber
means wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products. Clean lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or pressure-treated by compounds such as chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote, or manufactured wood products that contain adhesives or resins (e.g., plywood, particle board, flake board, and oriented strand board).
Collected from
means the transfer of material from the site at which the material is generated to a separate site where the material is burned.
Contained gaseous material
means gases that are in a container when that container is combusted.
Continuous emission monitoring system or CEMS
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an OSWI unit.
Continuous OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed to allow waste charging and ash removal during combustion.
Deviation
means any instance in which a unit that meets the requirements in § 60.2991, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any unit that meets requirements in § 60.2991 and is required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emission limitation, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirement in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is allowed by this subpart.
Dioxins/furans
means tetra-through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Energy recovery
means the process of recovering thermal energy from combustion for useful purposes such as steam generation or process heating.
EPA
means the Administrator of the EPA or employee of the EPA that is delegated the authority to perform the specified task.
Institutional facility
means a land-based facility owned and/or operated by an organization having a governmental, educational, civic, or religious purpose such as a school, hospital, prison, military installation, church, or other similar establishment or facility.
Institutional waste
means solid waste (as defined in this subpart) that is combusted at any institutional facility using controlled flame combustion in an enclosed, distinct operating unit: Whose design does not provide for energy recovery (as defined in this subpart); operated without energy recovery (as defined in this subpart); or operated with only waste heat recovery (as defined in this subpart). Institutional waste also means solid waste (as defined in this subpart) combusted on site in an air curtain incinerator that is a distinct operating unit of any institutional facility.
Institutional waste incineration unit
means any combustion unit that combusts institutional waste (as defined in this subpart) and is a distinct operating unit of the institutional facility that generated the waste. Institutional waste incineration units include field-erected, modular, cyclonic burn barrel, and custom built incineration units operating with starved or excess air, and any air curtain incinerator that is a distinct operating unit of the institutional facility that generated the institutional waste (except those air curtain incinerators listed in § 60.2994(b)).
Intermittent OSWI unit
means an OSWI unit that is designed to allow waste charging, but not ash removal, during combustion.
Low-level radioactive waste
means waste material that contains radioactive nuclides emitting primarily beta or gamma radiation, or both, in concentrations or quantities that exceed applicable Federal or State standards
for unrestricted release. Low-level radioactive waste is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)(2)).
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Metropolitan Statistical Area
means any areas listed as metropolitan statistical areas in OMB Bulletin No. 05-02 entitled “Update of Statistical Area Definitions and Guidance on Their Uses” dated February 22, 2005 (available on the Web at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/bulletins/
).
Modification or modified unit
means an incineration unit you have changed on or after June 16, 2006 and that meets one of two criteria:
(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the unit (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). For an OSWI unit, to determine what systems are within the boundary of the unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of OSWI unit.
(2) Any physical change in the OSWI unit or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.
Municipal solid waste
means refuse (and refuse-derived fuel) collected from the general public and from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources consisting of paper, wood, yard wastes, food wastes, plastics, leather, rubber, and other combustible materials and non-combustible materials such as metal, glass and rock, provided that: (1) The term does not include industrial process wastes or medical wastes that are segregated from such other wastes; and (2) an incineration unit shall not be considered to be combusting municipal solid waste for purposes of this subpart if it combusts a fuel feed stream, 30 percent or less of the weight of which is comprised, in aggregate, of municipal solid waste, as determined by § 60.2993(b).
Municipal waste combustion unit
means, for the purpose of this subpart and subpart EEEE, any setting or equipment that combusts municipal solid waste (as defined in this subpart) including, but not limited to, field-erected, modular, cyclonic burn barrel, and custom built incineration units (with or without energy recovery) operating with starved or excess air, boilers, furnaces, pyrolysis/combustion units, and air curtain incinerators (except those air curtain incinerators listed in § 60.2994(b)).
Other solid waste incineration (OSWI) unit
means either a very small municipal waste combustion unit or an institutional waste incineration unit, as defined in this subpart. Unit types listed in § 60.2993 as being excluded from the subpart are not OSWI units subject to this subpart. While not all OSWI units will include all of the following components, an OSWI unit includes, but is not limited to, the municipal or institutional solid waste feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The OSWI unit does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack. The OSWI unit boundary starts at the municipal or institutional waste hopper (if applicable) and extends through two areas:
(1) The combustion unit flue gas system, which ends immediately after the last combustion chamber or after the waste heat recovery equipment, if any; and
(2) The combustion unit bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The OSWI unit includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system.
Particulate matter
means total particulate matter emitted from OSWI units as measured by Method 5 or Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
Pathological waste
means waste material consisting of only human or animal remains, anatomical parts, and/or tissue, the bags/containers used to collect and transport the waste material, and animal bedding (if applicable).
Reconstruction
means rebuilding an incineration unit and meeting two criteria:
(1) The reconstruction begins on or after June 16, 2006.
(2) The cumulative cost of the construction over the life of the incineration unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the unit (not including land) updated to current costs (current dollars). For an OSWI unit, to determine what systems are within the boundary of the unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of OSWI unit.
Refuse-derived fuel
means a type of municipal solid waste produced by processing municipal solid waste through shredding and size classification. This includes all classes of refuse-derived fuel including two fuels:
(1) Low-density fluff refuse-derived fuel through densified refuse-derived fuel.
(2) Pelletized refuse-derived fuel.
Shutdown
means the period of time after all waste has been combusted in the primary chamber. For continuous OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 2 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For intermittent OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 4 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For batch OSWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 5 hours after the high-air phase of combustion has been completed.
Solid waste
means any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342), or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014).
Standard conditions,
when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).
Startup period
means the period of time between the activation of the system and the first charge to the OSWI unit. For batch OSWI, startup means the period of time between activation of the system and ignition of the waste.
Very small municipal waste combustion unit
means any municipal waste combustion unit that has the capacity to combust less than 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel, as determined by the calculations in § 60.3076.
Waste heat recovery
means the process of recovering heat from the combustion flue gases outside of the combustion firebox by convective heat transfer only.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquor to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
Wood waste
means untreated wood and untreated wood products, including tree stumps (whole or chipped), trees, tree limbs (whole or chipped), bark, sawdust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings. Wood waste does not include:
(1) Grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs from residential, commercial/retail, institutional, or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other private or public lands.
(2) Construction, renovation, or demolition wastes.
(3) Clean lumber.
(4) Treated wood and treated wood products, including wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or pressure treated by compounds such as chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote, or manufactured wood products that contain adhesives or resins (
e.g.
, plywood, particle board, flake board, and oriented strand board).
Yard waste
means grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs. Yard waste comes from residential, commercial/retail, institutional, or industrial sources
as part of maintaining yards or other private or public lands. Yard waste does not include two items:
(1) Construction, renovation, and demolition wastes.
(2) Clean lumber.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27966, June 30, 2025, § 60.3078 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Compliance Schedule
As stated in § 60.3000, you must comply with the following:
Complete this action
By this date
a
Final compliance
b
(Dates to be specified in State plan)
c
.
a
Site-specific schedules can be used at the discretion of the State.
b
Final compliance means that you complete all process changes and retrofit of control devices so that, when the incineration unit is brought on line, all process changes and air pollution control devices necessary to meet the emission limitations operate as designed.
c
The date can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of State plan approval or December 16, 2010, whichever is earlier.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27967, June 30, 2025, table 1 to subpart FFFF of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations
As stated in § 60.3022, you must comply with the following:
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
a
Using this averaging time
And determining compliance using this
method
1. Cadmium
18 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
2. Carbon monoxide
40 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run during performance test), and 12-hour rolling averages measured using CEMS
b
Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A of this part and CEMS.
3. Dioxins/furans (total basis)
33 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 23 of appendix A of this part.
4. Hydrogen chloride
15 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 26A of appendix A of this part.
5. Lead
226 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
6. Mercury
74 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of appendix A of this part.
7. Opacity
10 percent
6-minute average (observe over three 1-hour test runs; i.e., thirty 6-minute averages)
Method 9 of appendix A of this part.
8. Oxides of nitrogen
103 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A of this part, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Methods 7 and 7C only.
9. Particulate matter
0.013 grains per dry standard cubic foot
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 5 or 29 of appendix A of this part.
10. Sulfur dioxide
3.1 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 6 or 6C of appendix A of this part, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Method 6 only.
a
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27967, June 30, 2025, table 2 to subpart FFFF of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 2a

# Table 2
a

# to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limitations That Apply to OSWI Units With Capacities Less Than or Equal to 10 Tons per Day On or After [Date To Be Specified in State Plan]
a
As stated in § 60.3022, you must comply with the following:
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limitation
b
Using this averaging time
And determining compliance using this method
1. Cadmium
2,000 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
2. Carbon monoxide
220 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run during performance test), and 12-hour rolling averages measured using CEMS
c
Method 10, 10A, or 10B of Appendix A to this part and CEMS.
3a. Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
d
4,700 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 23 of Appendix A to this part.
3b. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
d
86 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 23 of Appendix A to this part.
4. Hydrogen chloride
500 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 26A of Appendix A to this part.
5. Lead
32,000 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
6. Mercury
69 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 29 of Appendix A to this part.
7. Opacity
10 percent
6-minute average (observe over three 1-hour test runs;
i.e.,
thirty 6-minute averages)
Method 9 of Appendix A to this part, or ASTM D7520-16(IBR, see § 60.17), if the following conditions are met:
1. During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
2. You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.
3. You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) of this subchapter for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
4. You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
8. Oxides of nitrogen
210 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Methods 7 and 7C only.
9. Particulate matter
280 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 5 or 29 of Appendix A to this part.
10. Sulfur dioxide
130 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (1 hour minimum sample time per run)
Method 6 or 6C of Appendix A to this part, or ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981(IBR, see § 60.17) in lieu of Method 6 only.
a
The date can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of state plan approval or July 1, 2030, whichever is earlier.
b
All emission limitations (except for opacity) are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions. CEMS data during startup and shutdown are measured at stack oxygen content.
c
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.
d
For dioxins/furans, you must meet either the total mass basis limit or the toxic equivalency basis limit.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27968, June 30, 2025, table 2a to subpart FFFF of part 60 was added, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Operating Limits for Incinerators and Wet Scrubbers
As stated in § 60.3023, you must comply with the following:
For these operating parameters
You must establish operating limits
And monitoring using these minimum frequencies
Data measurement
Data recording
Averaging time
1. Charge rate
Maximum charge rate
Continuous
Every hour
Daily for batch units. 3-hour rolling for continuous and intermittent units.
a
2. Pressure drop across the wet scrubber or amperage to wet scrubber
Minimum pressure drop or amperage
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
a
3. Scrubber liquor flow rate
Minimum flow rate
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
a
4. Scrubber liquor pH
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour rolling.
a
a
Calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27969, June 30, 2025, table 3 to subpart FFFF of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Requirements for Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS)
As stated in § 60.3039, you must comply with the following:
For the following pollutants
Use the following span values for your CEMS
Use the following performance specifications (P.S.) in appendix B of this part for your CEMS
If needed to meet minimum data requirements, use the following alternate methods in appendix A of this part to collect data
1. Carbon Monoxide
125 percent of the maximum hourly potential carbon monoxide emissions of the waste combustion unit
P.S.4A
Method 10.
2. Oxygen
25 percent oxygen
P.S.3
Method 3A or 3B, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (IBR, see § 60.17(h)) in lieu of Method 3B only.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27969, June 30, 2025, table 4 to subpart FFFF of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Pt. 60, Subpt. FFFF, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart FFFF of Part 60—Model Rule—Summary of Reporting Requirements
As stated in § 60.3048, you must comply with the following:
Report
Due date
Contents
Reference
1. Initial test report
a. No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
i. Complete test report for the initial performance test; and
§ 60.3049.
ii. The values for the site-specific operating limits
§ 60.3049.
2. Waste management plan
a. No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
i. Reduction or separation of recyclable materials; and
§§ 60.3010 through 60.3012.
ii. Identification of additional waste management measures and how they will be implemented
§§ 60.3010 through 60.3012.
3. Annual Report
a. No later than 12 months following the submission of the initial test report. Subsequent reports are to be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report
i. Company Name and address;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
ii. Statement and signature by the owner or operator;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
iii. Date of report;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
iv. Values for the operation limits;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
v. If no deviations or malfunctions were reported, a statement that no deviations occurred during the reporting period;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
vi. Highest and lowest recorded 12-hour averages, as applicable, for carbon monoxide emissions and highest and lowest recorded 3-hour averages, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
vii. Information for deviations or malfunctions recorded under § 60.2949(b)(6) and (c) through (e);
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
viii. If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of the test;
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
ix. If a performance test was not conducted during the reporting period, a statement that the requirements of § 60.2934(a) or (b) were met; and
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
x. Documentation of periods when all qualified OSWI unit operators were unavailable for more than 12 hours but less than 2 weeks
§§ 60.3050 and 60.3051.
4. Emission limitation or operating limit deviation report
a. By August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year. By February 1 of the following year for data collected during the second half of the calendar year
i. Dates and times of deviation;
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
ii. Averaged and recorded data for those dates;
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
iii. Duration and causes of each deviation and the corrective actions taken.
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
iv. Copy of operating limit monitoring data and any test reports;
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
v. Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents;
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
vi. Whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction; and
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
vii. Dates, times, and duration of any bypass of the control device
§§ 60.3052 and 60.3053.
5. Qualified operator deviation notification
a. Within 10 days of deviation
i. Statement of cause of deviation;
§ 60.3054(a)(1).
ii. Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator; and
§ 60.3054(a)(1).
iii. The date a qualified operator will be accessible
§ 60.3054(a)(1).
6. Qualified operation deviation status report
a. Every 4 weeks following deviation
i. Description of efforts to have an accessible qualified operator;
§ 60.3054(a)(2).
ii. The date a qualified operator will be accessible; and
§ 60.3054(a)(2).
iii. Request to continue operation
§ 60.3054(a)(2).
7. Qualified operator deviation notification of resumed operation
a. Prior to resuming operation
i. Notification that you are resuming operation
§ 60.3054(b).
Note:
This table is only a summary, see the referenced sections of the rule for the complete requirements.
[70 FR 74907, Dec. 16, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 67806, Nov. 24, 2006]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 27969, June 30, 2025, table 5 to subpart FFFF of part 60 was amended, effective Aug. 29, 2025.
Subparts GGGG-HHHH [Reserved]

# Subpart IIII—Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines

# Source:
71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 60.4200
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary compression ignition (CI) internal combustion engines (ICE) and other persons as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. For the purposes of this subpart, the date that construction commences is the date the engine is ordered by the owner or operator.
(1) Manufacturers of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder where the model year is:
(i) 2007 or later, for engines that are not fire pump engines;
(ii) The model year listed in Table 3 to this subpart or later model year, for fire pump engines.
(2) Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE that commence construction after July 11, 2005, where the stationary CI ICE are:
(i) Manufactured after April 1, 2006, and are not fire pump engines, or
(ii) Manufactured as a certified National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) fire pump engine after July 1, 2006.
(3) Owners and operators of any stationary CI ICE that are modified or reconstructed after July 11, 2005 and any person that modifies or reconstructs any stationary CI ICE after July 11, 2005.
(4) The provisions of § 60.4208 of this subpart are applicable to all owners and operators of stationary CI ICE that commence construction after July 11, 2005.
(b) The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to stationary CI ICE being tested at a stationary CI ICE test cell/stand.
(c) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
(d) Stationary CI ICE may be eligible for exemption from the requirements of this subpart as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, except that owners
and operators, as well as manufacturers, may be eligible to request an exemption for national security.
(e) Owners and operators of facilities with CI ICE that are acting as temporary replacement units and that are located at a stationary source for less than 1 year and that have been properly certified as meeting the standards that would be applicable to such engine under the appropriate nonroad engine provisions, are not required to meet any other provisions under this subpart with regard to such engines.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37967, June 28, 2011; 86 FR 34357, June 29, 2021]

# Emission Standards for Manufacturers
§ 60.4201
What emission standards must I meet for non-emergency engines if I am a stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturer?
(a) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their 2007 model year and later non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 2,237 kilowatt (KW) (3,000 horsepower (HP)) and a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder to the certification emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in 40 CFR 1039.101, 1039.102, 1039.104, 1039.105, 1039.107, and 1039.115 and 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, as applicable, for all pollutants, for the same model year and maximum engine power.
(b) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their 2007 through 2010 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder to the emission standards in table 1 to this subpart, for all pollutants, for the same maximum engine power.
(c) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their 2011 model year and later non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder to the certification emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in 40 CFR 1039.101, 40 CFR 1039.102, 40 CFR 1039.104, 40 CFR 1039.105, 40 CFR 1039.107, and 40 CFR 1039.115, as applicable, for all pollutants, for the same maximum engine power.
(d) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify the following non-emergency stationary CI ICE to the appropriate Tier 2 emission standards for new marine CI engines as described in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I, for all pollutants, for the same displacement and rated power:
(1) Their 2007 model year through 2012 non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder;
(2) Their 2013 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 3,700 KW (4,958 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 15 liters per cylinder; and
(3) Their 2013 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 15 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder.
(e) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify the following non-emergency stationary CI ICE to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new marine CI engines in 40 CFR 1042.101, 40 CFR 1042.107, 40 CFR 1042.110, 40 CFR 1042.115, 40 CFR 1042.120, and 40 CFR 1042.145, as applicable, for all pollutants, for the same displacement and maximum engine power:
(1) Their 2013 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power less than 3,700 KW (4,958 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 15 liters per cylinder; and
(2) Their 2014 model year and later non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder.
(f) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, stationary non-emergency CI ICE identified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section may be certified to the
provisions of 40 CFR part 1042 for commercial engines that are applicable for the engine's model year, displacement, power density, and maximum engine power if the engines will be used solely in either or both of the following locations:
(1) Remote areas of Alaska; and
(2) Marine offshore installations.
(g) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers are not required to certify reconstructed engines; however manufacturers may elect to do so. The reconstructed engine must be certified to the emission standards specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section that are applicable to the model year, maximum engine power, and displacement of the reconstructed stationary CI ICE.
(h) Stationary CI ICE certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1039 and equipped with auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) as specified in 40 CFR 1039.665 must meet the Tier 1 certification emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, while the AECD is activated during a qualified emergency situation. A qualified emergency situation is defined in 40 CFR 1039.665. When the qualified emergency situation has ended and the AECD is deactivated, the engine must resume meeting the otherwise applicable emission standard specified in this section.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37967, June 28, 2011; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34357, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4202
What emission standards must I meet for emergency engines if I am a stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturer?
(a) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines to the emission standards specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) For engines with a maximum engine power less than 37 KW (50 HP):
(i) The Tier 2 emission standards for new nonroad CI engines for the appropriate rated power as described in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, for all pollutants and the smoke standards as specified in 40 CFR 1039.105 for model year 2007 engines; and
(ii) The certification emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in 40 CFR 1039.104, 40 CFR 1039.105, 40 CFR 1039.107, 40 CFR 1039.115, and table 2 to this subpart, for 2008 model year and later engines.
(2) For engines with a rated power greater than or equal to 37 KW (50 HP), the Tier 2 or Tier 3 emission standards for new nonroad CI engines for the same rated power as described in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, for all pollutants and the smoke standards as specified in 40 CFR 1039.105 beginning in model year 2007.
(b) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines to the emission standards specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) For 2007 through 2010 model years, the emission standards in table 1 to this subpart, for all pollutants, for the same maximum engine power.
(2) For 2011 model year and later, the Tier 2 emission standards as described in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, for all pollutants and the smoke standards as specified in 40 CFR 1039.105.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Beginning with the model years in table 3 to this subpart, stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their fire pump stationary CI ICE to the emission standards in table 4 to this subpart, for all pollutants, for the same model year and NFPA nameplate power.
(e) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify the following emergency stationary CI ICE that are not fire pump engines to the appropriate Tier 2 emission standards for new marine CI engines as described in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I, for all pollutants, for the same displacement and rated power:
(1) Their 2007 model year through 2012 emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder;
(2) Their 2013 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 3,700 KW (4,958 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 15 liters per cylinder;
(3) Their 2013 model year emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 15 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder; and
(4) Their 2014 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 2,000 KW (2,682 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 15 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder.
(f) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify the following emergency stationary CI ICE to the certification emission standards and other requirements applicable to Tier 3 new marine CI engines in 40 CFR 1042.101, 40 CFR 1042.107, 40 CFR 1042.115, 40 CFR 1042.120, and 40 CFR 1042.145, for all pollutants, for the same displacement and maximum engine power:
(1) Their 2013 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power less than 3,700 KW (4,958 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 15 liters per cylinder; and
(2) Their 2014 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power less than 2,000 KW (2,682 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 15 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder.
(g) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, stationary emergency CI ICE identified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section may be certified to the provisions of 40 CFR part 1042 for commercial engines that are applicable for the engine's model year, displacement, power density, and maximum engine power if the engines will be used solely in either or both of the locations identified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Engines that would be subject to the Tier 4 standards in 40 CFR part 1042 that are used solely in either or both of the locations identified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section may instead continue to be certified to the previous tier of standards in 40 CFR part 1042. The previous tier is Tier 3 in most cases; however, the previous tier is Tier 2 if there are no Tier 3 standards specified for engines of a certain size or power rating.
(1) Remote areas of Alaska; and
(2) Marine offshore installations.
(h) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers are not required to certify reconstructed engines; however manufacturers may elect to do so. The reconstructed engine must be certified to the emission standards specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section that are applicable to the model year, maximum engine power and displacement of the reconstructed emergency stationary CI ICE.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37968, June 28, 2011; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34358, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4471, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 60.4203
How long must my engines meet the emission standards if I am a manufacturer of stationary CI internal combustion engines?
Engines manufactured by stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the emission standards as required in §§ 60.4201 and 60.4202 during the certified emissions life of the engines.
[76 FR 37968, June 28, 2011]

# Emission Standards for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4204
What emission standards must I meet for non-emergency engines if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
(a) Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder must comply with
the emission standards in table 1 to this subpart. Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder must comply with the Tier 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I.
(b) Owners and operators of 2007 model year and later non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder must comply with the emission standards for new CI engines in § 60.4201 for their 2007 model year and later stationary CI ICE, as applicable.
(c) Owners and operators of non-emergency stationary CI engines with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must meet the following requirements:
(1) For engines installed prior to January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 17.0 grams per kilowatt-hour (g/KW-hr) (12.7 grams per horsepower-hr (g/HP-hr)) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 revolutions per minute (rpm);
(ii) 45 · n
−0.2
g/KW-hr (34 · n
−0.2
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 130 or more but less than 2,000 rpm, where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 9.8 g/KW-hr (7.3 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 2,000 rpm or more.
(2) For engines installed on or after January 1, 2012 and before January 1, 2016, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 14.4 g/KW-hr (10.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 44 · n
−0.23
g/KW-hr (33 · n
−0.23
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 130 but less than 2,000 rpm and where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 7.7 g/KW-hr (5.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 2,000 rpm.
(3) For engines installed on or after January 1, 2016, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 3.4 g/KW-hr (2.5 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 9.0 · n
−0.20
g/KW-hr (6.7 · n
−0.20
g/HP-hr) where n (maximum engine speed) is 130 or more but less than 2,000 rpm; and
(iii) 2.0 g/KW-hr (1.5 g/HP-hr) where maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 2,000 rpm.
(4) Reduce particulate matter (PM) emissions by 60 percent or more, or limit the emissions of PM in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to 0.15 g/KW-hr (0.11 g/HP-hr).
(d) Owners and operators of non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder who conduct performance tests in-use must meet the not-to-exceed (NTE) standards as indicated in § 60.4212.
(e) Owners and operators of any modified or reconstructed non-emergency stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart must meet the emission standards applicable to the model year, maximum engine power, and displacement of the modified or reconstructed non-emergency stationary CI ICE that are specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(f) Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1039 and equipped with AECDs as specified in 40 CFR 1039.665 must meet the Tier 1 certification emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, while the AECD is activated during a qualified emergency situation. A qualified emergency situation is defined in 40 CFR 1039.665. When the qualified emergency situation has ended and the AECD is deactivated, the engine must resume meeting the otherwise applicable emission standard specified in this section.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37968, June 28, 2011; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34358, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4205
What emission standards must I meet for emergency engines if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
(a) Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year emergency stationary CI
ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the emission standards in Table 1 to this subpart. Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the Tier 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I.
(b) Owners and operators of 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in § 60.4202, for all pollutants, for the same model year and maximum engine power for their 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE.
(c) Owners and operators of fire pump engines with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder must comply with the emission standards in table 4 to this subpart, for all pollutants.
(d) Owners and operators of emergency stationary CI engines with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must meet the requirements in this section.
(1) For engines installed prior to January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 17.0 g/KW-hr (12.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 45 · n
−0.2
g/KW-hr (34 · n
−0.2
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 130 or more but less than 2,000 rpm, where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 9.8 g/kW-hr (7.3 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 2,000 rpm or more.
(2) For engines installed on or after January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 14.4 g/KW-hr (10.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 44 · n
−0.23
g/KW-hr (33 · n
−0.23
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 130 but less than 2,000 rpm and where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 7.7 g/KW-hr (5.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 2,000 rpm.
(3) Limit the emissions of PM in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to 0.40 g/KW-hr (0.30 g/HP-hr).
(e) Owners and operators of emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder who conduct performance tests in-use must meet the NTE standards as indicated in § 60.4212.
(f) Owners and operators of any modified or reconstructed emergency stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart must meet the emission standards applicable to the model year, maximum engine power, and displacement of the modified or reconstructed CI ICE that are specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011; 86 FR 34358, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4206
How long must I meet the emission standards if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE must operate and maintain stationary CI ICE that achieve the emission standards as required in §§ 60.4204 and 60.4205 over the entire life of the engine.
[76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011]

# Fuel Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4207
What fuel requirements must I meet if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine subject to this subpart?
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Beginning October 1, 2010, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that use diesel fuel must use diesel fuel that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.305 for nonroad diesel fuel, except that any existing diesel fuel purchased (or otherwise obtained) prior to October 1, 2010, may be used until depleted.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Beginning June 1, 2012, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must use diesel fuel that meets a maximum per-gallon sulfur content of 1,000 parts per million (ppm).
(e) Stationary CI ICE that have a national security exemption under § 60.4200(d) are also exempt from the fuel requirements in this section.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6695, Jan. 30, 2013; 85 FR 78463, Dec. 4, 2020]

# Other Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4208
What is the deadline for importing or installing stationary CI ICE produced in previous model years?
(a) After December 31, 2008, owners and operators may not install stationary CI ICE (excluding fire pump engines) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2007 model year engines.
(b) After December 31, 2009, owners and operators may not install stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of less than 19 KW (25 HP) (excluding fire pump engines) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2008 model year engines.
(c) After December 31, 2014, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 56 KW (75 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2013 model year non-emergency engines.
(d) After December 31, 2013, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 56 KW (75 HP) and less than 130 KW (175 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2012 model year non-emergency engines.
(e) After December 31, 2012, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 130 KW (175 HP), including those above 560 KW (750 HP), that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2011 model year non-emergency engines.
(f) After December 31, 2016, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 560 KW (750 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2015 model year non-emergency engines.
(g) After December 31, 2018, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 600 KW (804 HP) and less than 2,000 KW (2,680 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2017 model year non-emergency engines.
(h) In addition to the requirements specified in §§ 60.4201, 60.4202, 60.4204, and 60.4205, it is prohibited to import stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that do not meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section after the dates specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(i) The requirements of this section do not apply to owners or operators of stationary CI ICE that have been modified, reconstructed, and do not apply to engines that were removed from one existing location and reinstalled at a new location.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011]
§ 60.4209
What are the monitoring requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
If you are an owner or operator, you must meet the monitoring requirements of this section. In addition, you must also meet the monitoring requirements specified in § 60.4211.
(a) If you are an owner or operator of an emergency stationary CI internal combustion engine that does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, you must install a non-resettable hour meter prior to startup of the engine.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion
engine equipped with a diesel particulate filter to comply with the emission standards in § 60.4204, the diesel particulate filter must be installed with a backpressure monitor that notifies the owner or operator when the high backpressure limit of the engine is approached.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011]

# Compliance Requirements
§ 60.4210
What are my compliance requirements if I am a stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturer?
(a) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder to the emission standards specified in §§ 60.4201(a) through (c) and 60.4202(a), (b), and (d) using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1039, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1039. For the purposes of this subpart, engines certified to the standards in Table 1 to this subpart shall be subject to the same certification procedures required for engines certified to the Tier 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I. For the purposes of this subpart, engines certified to the standards in Table 4 to this subpart shall be subject to the same certification procedures required for engines certified to the Tier 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, except that engines with NFPA nameplate power of less than 37 KW (50 HP) certified to model year 2011 or later standards shall be subject to the same requirements as engines certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1039.
(b) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder to the emission standards specified in §§ 60.4201(d) and (e) and 60.4202(e) and (f) using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1042, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1042.
(c) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1039.120, 1039.125, 1039.130, and 1039.135 and 40 CFR part 1068 for engines that are certified to the emission standards in 40 CFR part 1039. Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the corresponding provisions of 40 CFR part 1042 for engines that would be covered by that part if they were nonroad (including marine) engines. Labels on such engines must refer to stationary engines, rather than or in addition to nonroad or marine engines, as appropriate. Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must label their engines according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured from January 1, 2006 to March 31, 2006 (January 1, 2006 to June 30, 2006 for fire pump engines), other than those that are part of certified engine families under the nonroad CI engine regulations, must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20.
(2) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured from April 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 (or, for fire pump engines, July 1, 2006 to December 31 of the year preceding the year listed in table 3 to this subpart) must be labeled according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that are part of certified engine families under the nonroad regulations must meet the labeling requirements for nonroad CI engines, but do not have to meet the labeling requirements in 40 CFR 1039.20.
(ii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet Tier 1 requirements (or requirements for fire pumps) under this subpart, but do not meet the requirements applicable to nonroad CI engines must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20. The engine manufacturer may add language to the label clarifying that the engine meets Tier 1 requirements (or requirements for fire pumps) of this subpart.
(iii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured after April 1, 2006 that do not meet Tier 1 requirements of this subpart, or fire pumps engines manufactured after July 1, 2006 that do not meet the requirements for fire pumps under this subpart, may not
be used in the U.S. If any such engines are manufactured in the U.S. after April 1, 2006 (July 1, 2006 for fire pump engines), they must be exported or must be brought into compliance with the appropriate standards prior to initial operation. The export provisions of 40 CFR 1068.230 would apply to engines for export and the manufacturers must label such engines according to 40 CFR 1068.230.
(3) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured after January 1, 2007 (for fire pump engines, after January 1 of the year listed in table 3 to this subpart, as applicable) must be labeled according to paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet the requirements of this subpart and the corresponding requirements for nonroad (including marine) engines of the same model year and HP must be labeled according to the provisions in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042, as appropriate.
(ii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet the requirements of this subpart, but are not certified to the standards applicable to nonroad (including marine) engines of the same model year and HP must be labeled according to the provisions in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042, as appropriate, but the words “stationary” must be included instead of “nonroad” or “marine” on the label. In addition, such engines must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20.
(iii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that do not meet the requirements of this subpart must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1068.230 and must be exported under the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.230.
(d) An engine manufacturer certifying an engine family or families to standards under this subpart that are identical to standards applicable under 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042 for that model year may certify any such family that contains both nonroad (including marine) and stationary engines as a single engine family and/or may include any such family containing stationary engines in the averaging, banking, and trading provisions applicable for such engines under those parts.
(e) Manufacturers of engine families discussed in paragraph (d) of this section may meet the labeling requirements referred to in paragraph (c) of this section for stationary CI ICE by either adding a separate label containing the information required in paragraph (c) of this section or by adding the words “and stationary” after the word “nonroad” or “marine,” as appropriate, to the label.
(f) Starting with the model years shown in table 5 to this subpart, stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must add a permanent label stating that the engine is for stationary emergency use only to each new emergency stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) that meets all the emission standards for emergency engines in § 60.4202 but does not meet all the emission standards for non-emergency engines in § 60.4201. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1039.135(b). Engine manufacturers must specify in the owner's manual that operation of emergency engines is limited to emergency operations and required maintenance and testing.
(g) Manufacturers of fire pump engines may use the test cycle in table 6 to this subpart for testing fire pump engines and may test at the NFPA certified nameplate HP, provided that the engine is labeled as “Fire Pump Applications Only”.
(h) Engine manufacturers, including importers, may introduce into commerce uncertified engines or engines certified to earlier standards that were manufactured before the new or changed standards took effect until inventories are depleted, as long as such engines are part of normal inventory. For example, if the engine manufacturers' normal industry practice is to keep on hand a one-month supply of engines based on its projected sales, and a new tier of standards starts to apply for the 2009 model year, the engine manufacturer may manufacture engines based on the normal inventory requirements late in the 2008 model year, and sell those engines for installation. The engine manufacturer may not circumvent the provisions of § 60.4201 or § 60.4202 by
stockpiling engines that are built before new or changed standards take effect. Stockpiling of such engines beyond normal industry practice is a violation of this subpart.
(i) The replacement engine provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240 are applicable to stationary CI engines replacing existing equipment that is less than 15 years old.
(j) Stationary CI ICE manufacturers may equip their stationary CI internal combustion engines certified to the emission standards in 40 CFR part 1039 with AECDs for qualified emergency situations according to the requirements of 40 CFR 1039.665. Manufacturers of stationary CI ICE equipped with AECDs as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665 must meet all the requirements in 40 CFR 1039.665 that apply to manufacturers. Manufacturers must document that the engine complies with the Tier 1 standard in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, when the AECD is activated. Manufacturers must provide any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support such statement when applying for certification (including amending an existing certificate) of an engine equipped with an AECD as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665.
(k) Manufacturers of any size may certify their emergency stationary CI internal combustion engines under this section using assigned deterioration factors established by EPA, consistent with 40 CFR 1039.240 and 1042.240.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37969, June 28, 2011; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34358, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4211
What are my compliance requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
(a) If you are an owner or operator and must comply with the emission standards specified in this subpart, you must do all of the following, except as permitted under paragraph (g) of this section:
(1) Operate and maintain the stationary CI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions;
(2) Change only those emission-related settings that are permitted by the manufacturer; and
(3) Meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 1068, as they apply to you.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of a pre-2007 model year stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(a) or § 60.4205(a), or if you are an owner or operator of a CI fire pump engine that is manufactured prior to the model years in table 3 to this subpart and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4205(c), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Purchasing an engine certified to emission standards for the same model year and maximum engine power as described in 40 CFR parts 1039 and 1042, as applicable. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's specifications.
(2) Keeping records of performance test results for each pollutant for a test conducted on a similar engine. The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart and these methods must have been followed correctly.
(3) Keeping records of engine manufacturer data indicating compliance with the standards.
(4) Keeping records of control device vendor data indicating compliance with the standards.
(5) Conducting an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4212, as applicable.
(c) If you are an owner or operator of a 2007 model year and later stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(b) or § 60.4205(b), or if you are an owner or operator of a CI fire pump engine that is manufactured during or after the model year that applies to your fire pump engine power rating in table 3 to this subpart and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4205(c), you must comply by purchasing an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4204(b), or
§ 60.4205(b) or (c), as applicable, for the same model year and maximum (or in the case of fire pumps, NFPA nameplate) engine power. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's emission-related specifications, except as permitted in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d) If you are an owner or operator and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(c) or § 60.4205(d), you must demonstrate compliance according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Conducting an initial performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards as specified in § 60.4213.
(2) Establishing operating parameters to be monitored continuously to ensure the stationary internal combustion engine continues to meet the emission standards. The owner or operator must petition the Administrator for approval of operating parameters to be monitored continuously. The petition must include the information described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to monitor continuously;
(ii) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and NO
X
and PM emissions, identifying how the emissions of these pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limitations on these parameters will serve to limit NO
X
and PM emissions;
(iii) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters which will establish the limits on these parameters in the operating limitations;
(iv) A discussion identifying the methods and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and
(v) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.
(3) For non-emergency engines with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder, conducting annual performance tests to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standards as specified in § 60.4213.
(e) If you are an owner or operator of a modified or reconstructed stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(e) or § 60.4205(f), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Purchasing, or otherwise owning or operating, an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4204(e) or § 60.4205(f), as applicable.
(2) Conducting a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4212 or § 60.4213, as appropriate. The test must be conducted within 60 days after the engine commences operation after the modification or reconstruction.
(f) If you own or operate an emergency stationary ICE, you must operate the emergency stationary ICE according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. In order for the engine to be considered an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart, any operation other than emergency operation, maintenance and testing, and operation in non-emergency situations for 50 hours per year, as described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3), is prohibited. If you do not operate the engine according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3), the engine will not be considered an emergency engine under this subpart and must meet all requirements for non-emergency engines.
(1) There is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary ICE in emergency situations.
(2) You may operate your emergency stationary ICE for the purpose specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for a maximum of 100 hours per calendar year. Any operation for non-emergency situations as allowed by paragraph (f)(3) of this section counts as part of the 100 hours per calendar year allowed by this paragraph (f)(2).
(i) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are recommended by federal,
state or local government, the manufacturer, the vendor, the regional transmission organization or equivalent balancing authority and transmission operator, or the insurance company associated with the engine. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of additional hours to be used for maintenance checks and readiness testing, but a petition is not required if the owner or operator maintains records indicating that federal, state, or local standards require maintenance and testing of emergency ICE beyond 100 hours per calendar year.
(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]
(3) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the 50 hours per calendar year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.
(i) The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used to supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if all of the following conditions are met:
(A) The engine is dispatched by the local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator;
(B) The dispatch is intended to mitigate local transmission and/or distribution limitations so as to avert potential voltage collapse or line overloads that could lead to the interruption of power supply in a local area or region.
(C) The dispatch follows reliability, emergency operation or similar protocols that follow specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines.
(D) The power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local transmission and distribution system.
(E) The owner or operator identifies and records the entity that dispatches the engine and the specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines that are being followed for dispatching the engine. The local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator may keep these records on behalf of the engine owner or operator.
(ii) [Reserved]
(g) If you do not install, configure, operate, and maintain your engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer, you must demonstrate compliance as follows:
(1) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine with maximum engine power less than 100 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, if you do not install and configure the engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or you change the emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of such action.
(2) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of startup, or within 1 year after an engine and control device is no longer installed, configured, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or within 1 year after
you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer.
(3) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of startup, or within 1 year after an engine and control device is no longer installed, configured, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or within 1 year after you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer. You must conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours of engine operation or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.
(h) The requirements for operators and prohibited acts specified in 40 CFR 1039.665 apply to owners or operators of stationary CI ICE equipped with AECDs for qualified emergency situations as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37970, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6695, Jan. 30, 2013; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34359, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48605, Aug. 10, 2022]

# Testing Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4212
What test methods and other procedures must I use if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder?
Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder who conduct performance tests pursuant to this subpart must do so according to paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) The performance test must be conducted according to the in-use testing procedures in 40 CFR part 1039, subpart F, for stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder, and according to 40 CFR part 1042, subpart F, for stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder. Alternatively, stationary CI ICE that are complying with Tier 2 or Tier 3 emission standards as described in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, or with Tier 2 emission standards as described in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I, may follow the testing procedures specified in § 60.4213, as appropriate.
(b) Exhaust emissions from stationary CI ICE that are complying with the emission standards for new CI engines in 40 CFR part 1039 must not exceed the not-to-exceed (NTE) standards for the same model year and maximum engine power as required in 40 CFR 1039.101(e) and 40 CFR 1039.102(g)(1), except as specified in 40 CFR 1039.104(d). This requirement starts when NTE requirements take effect for nonroad diesel engines under 40 CFR part 1039.
(c) Exhaust emissions from stationary CI ICE subject to Tier 2 or Tier 3 emission standards as described in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, or Tier 2 emission standards as described in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I, must not exceed the NTE numerical requirements, rounded to the same number of decimal places as the applicable standard, determined from the following equation:
ER29JN21.275
Where:
STD = The standard specified for that pollutant in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042, as applicable.
(d) Exhaust emissions from stationary CI ICE that are complying with the emission standards for pre-2007 model year engines in § 60.4204(a), § 60.4205(a), or § 60.4205(c) must not exceed the NTE numerical requirements, rounded to the same number of decimal places as the applicable standard in § 60.4204(a), § 60.4205(a), or § 60.4205(c), determined from the equation in paragraph (c) of this section.
Where:
STD = The standard specified for that pollutant in § 60.4204(a), § 60.4205(a), or § 60.4205(c).
Alternatively, stationary CI ICE that are complying with the emission standards for pre-2007 model year engines in § 60.4204(a), § 60.4205(a), or § 60.4205(c) may follow the testing procedures specified in § 60.4213, as appropriate.
(e) Exhaust emissions from stationary CI ICE that are complying with the emission standards for new CI engines in 40 CFR part 1042 must not exceed the NTE standards for the same model year and maximum engine power as required in 40 CFR 1042.101(c).
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37971, June 28, 2011; 86 FR 34359, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4213
What test methods and other procedures must I use if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder?
Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must conduct performance tests according to paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(a) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in § 60.8 and under the specific conditions that this subpart specifies in table 7. The test must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load.
(b) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 60.8(c).
(c) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 60.8(f). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(d) To determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement, you must follow the requirements as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must use Equation 2 of this section to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement:
ER11JY06.001
Where:
C
i
= concentration of NO
X
or PM at the control device inlet,
C
o
= concentration of NO
X
or PM at the control device outlet, and
R = percent reduction of NO
X
or PM emissions.
(2) You must normalize the NO
X
or PM concentrations at the inlet and outlet of the control device to a dry basis and to 15 percent oxygen (O
2
) using Equation 3 of this section, or an equivalent percent carbon dioxide (CO
2
) using the procedures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
ER11JY06.002
Where:
C
adj
= Calculated NO
X
or PM concentration adjusted to 15 percent O
2
.
C
d
= Measured concentration of NO
X
or PM, uncorrected.
5.9 = 20.9 percent O
2
−15 percent O
2
, the defined O
2
correction value, percent.
%O
2
= Measured O
2
concentration, dry basis, percent.
(3) If pollutant concentrations are to be corrected to 15 percent O
2
and CO
2
concentration is measured in lieu of O
2
concentration measurement, a CO
2
correction factor is needed. Calculate the CO
2
correction factor as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Calculate the fuel-specific F
o
value for the fuel burned during the test using values obtained from Method 19, Section 5.2, and the following equation:
ER11JY06.003
Where:
F
o
= Fuel factor based on the ratio of O
2
volume to the ultimate CO
2
volume produced by the fuel at zero percent excess air.
0.209 = Fraction of air that is O
2
, percent/100.
F
d
= Ratio of the volume of dry effluent gas to the gross calorific value of the fuel from Method 19, dsm
3
/J (dscf/10
6
Btu).
F
c
= Ratio of the volume of CO
2
produced to the gross calorific value of the fuel from Method 19, dsm
3
/J (dscf/10
6
Btu).
(ii) Calculate the CO
2
correction factor for correcting measurement data to 15 percent O
2
, as follows:
ER11JY06.004
Where:
X
CO2
= CO
2
correction factor, percent.
5.9 = 20.9 percent O
2
−15 percent O
2
, the defined O
2
correction value, percent.
(iii) Calculate the NO
X
and PM gas concentrations adjusted to 15 percent O
2
using CO
2
as follows:
ER11JY06.005
Where:
C
adj
= Calculated NO
X
or PM concentration adjusted to 15 percent O
2
.
C
d
= Measured concentration of NO
X
or PM, uncorrected.
%CO
2
= Measured CO
2
concentration, dry basis, percent.
(e) To determine compliance with the NO
X
mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of NO
X
in the engine exhaust using Equation 7 of this section:
ER11JY06.006
Where:
ER = Emission rate in grams per KW-hour.
C
d
= Measured NO
X
concentration in ppm.
1.912x10
−3
= Conversion constant for ppm NO
X
to grams per standard cubic meter at 25 degrees Celsius.
Q = Stack gas volumetric flow rate, in standard cubic meter per hour.
T = Time of test run, in hours.
KW-hour = Brake work of the engine, in KW-hour.
(f) To determine compliance with the PM mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of PM in the engine exhaust using Equation 8 of this section:
ER11JY06.007
Where:
ER = Emission rate in grams per KW-hour.
C
adj
= Calculated PM concentration in grams per standard cubic meter.
Q = Stack gas volumetric flow rate, in standard cubic meter per hour.
T = Time of test run, in hours.
KW-hour = Energy output of the engine, in KW.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37971, June 28, 2011]

# Notification, Reports, and Records for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4214
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?
(a) Owners and operators of non-emergency stationary CI ICE that are greater than 2,237 KW (3,000 HP), or have a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder, or are pre-2007 model year engines that are greater than 130 KW (175 HP) and not certified, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Submit an initial notification as required in § 60.7(a)(1). The notification must include the information in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. Beginning on February 26, 2025,
submit the notification electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) Name and address of the owner or operator;
(ii) The address of the affected source;
(iii) Engine information including make, model, engine family, serial number, model year, maximum engine power, and engine displacement;
(iv) Emission control equipment; and
(v) Fuel used.
(2) Keep records of the information in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) All notifications submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any notification.
(ii) Maintenance conducted on the engine.
(iii) If the stationary CI internal combustion is a certified engine, documentation from the manufacturer that the engine is certified to meet the emission standards.
(iv) If the stationary CI internal combustion is not a certified engine, documentation that the engine meets the emission standards.
(b) If the stationary CI internal combustion engine is an emergency stationary internal combustion engine, the owner or operator is not required to submit an initial notification. Starting with the model years in table 5 to this subpart, if the emergency engine does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines in the applicable model year, the owner or operator must keep records of the operation of the engine in emergency and non-emergency service that are recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner must record the time of operation of the engine and the reason the engine was in operation during that time.
(c) If the stationary CI internal combustion engine is equipped with a diesel particulate filter, the owner or operator must keep records of any corrective action taken after the backpressure monitor has notified the owner or operator that the high backpressure limit of the engine is approached.
(d) If you own or operate an emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power more than 100 HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The report must contain the following information:
(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.
(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iii) Engine site rating and model year.
(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.
(v)-(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.
(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.
(3) The annual report must be submitted electronically using the subpart specific reporting form in the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). However, if the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the written report must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit annual report electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) Owners or operators of stationary CI ICE equipped with AECDs pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 1039.665 must report the use of AECDs as required by 40 CFR 1039.665(e).
(f) Beginning on February 26, 2025, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required
by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test required under this section following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), according to paragraph (g) of this section. The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(g) If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described in paragraph (g) of this section, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly
marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
(j) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain
electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 6696, Jan. 30, 2013; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022; 89 FR 70512, Aug. 30, 2024]

# Special Requirements
§ 60.4215
What requirements must I meet for engines used in Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands?
(a) Stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that are used in Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are required to meet the applicable emission standards in §§ 60.4202 and 60.4205.
(b) Stationary CI ICE that are used in Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are not required to meet the fuel requirements in § 60.4207.
(c) Stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder that are used in Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are required to meet the following emission standards:
(1) For engines installed prior to January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 17.0 g/KW-hr (12.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 45 · n
−0.2
g/KW-hr (34 · n
−0.2
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 130 or more but less than 2,000 rpm, where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 9.8 g/KW-hr (7.3 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 2,000 rpm or more.
(2) For engines installed on or after January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:
(i) 14.4 g/KW-hr (10.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;
(ii) 44 · n
−0.23
g/KW-hr (33 · n
−0.23
g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 130 but less than 2,000 rpm and where n is maximum engine speed; and
(iii) 7.7 g/KW-hr (5.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 2,000 rpm.
(3) Limit the emissions of PM in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to 0.40 g/KW-hr (0.30 g/HP-hr).
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37971, June 28, 2011]
§ 60.4216
What requirements must I meet for engines used in Alaska?
(a) Prior to December 1, 2010, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder located in areas of Alaska not accessible by the FAHS should refer to 40 CFR part 69 to determine the diesel fuel requirements applicable to such engines.
(b) Except as indicated in paragraph (c) of this section, manufacturers, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder located in remote areas of Alaska may meet the requirements of this subpart by manufacturing and installing engines meeting the Tier 2 or Tier 3 emission standards described in 40 CFR part 1042 for the same model year, displacement, and maximum engine power, as appropriate, rather than the otherwise applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 1039, as indicated in §§ 60.4201(f) and 60.4202(g).
(c) Manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary CI ICE that are located in remote areas of Alaska may choose to meet the applicable emission standards for emergency engines in §§ 60.4202 and 60.4205, and not those for non-emergency engines in §§ 60.4201 and 60.4204, except that for 2014 model year and later nonemergency CI ICE, the owner or operator of any such engine must have that engine certified as meeting at least the Tier 3 PM standards identified in appendix I of 40 CFR part 1039 or in 40 CFR 1042.101.
(d) The provisions of § 60.4207 do not apply to owners and operators of pre-
2014 model year stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in remote areas of Alaska.
(e) The provisions of § 60.4208(a) do not apply to owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in areas of Alaska not accessible by the FAHS until after December 31, 2009.
(f) The provisions of this section and § 60.4207 do not prevent owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in remote areas of Alaska from using fuels mixed with used lubricating oil, in volumes of up to 1.75 percent of the total fuel. The sulfur content of the used lubricating oil must be less than 200 parts per million. The used lubricating oil must meet the on-specification levels and properties for used oil in 40 CFR 279.11.
[76 FR 37971, June 28, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34359, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4217
What emission standards must I meet if I am an owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine using special fuels?
Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE that do not use diesel fuel may petition the Administrator for approval of alternative emission standards, if they can demonstrate that they use a fuel that is not the fuel on which the manufacturer of the engine certified the engine and that the engine cannot meet the applicable standards required in § 60.4204 or § 60.4205 using such fuels and that use of such fuel is appropriate and reasonably necessary, considering cost, energy, technical feasibility, human health and environmental, and other factors, for the operation of the engine.
[76 FR 37972, June 28, 2011]

# General Provisions
§ 60.4218
What General Provisions and confidential information provisions apply to me?
(a) Table 8 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 60.1 through 60.19 apply to you.
(b) The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for engine manufacturers. For others, the general confidential business information (CBI) provisions apply as described in 40 CFR part 2.
[88 FR 4471, Jan. 24, 2023]

# Definitions
§ 60.4219
What definitions apply to this subpart?
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the CAA and in subpart A of this part.
Alaska Railbelt Grid
means the service areas of the six regulated public utilities that extend from Fairbanks to Anchorage and the Kenai Peninsula. These utilities are Golden Valley Electric Association; Chugach Electric Association; Matanuska Electric Association; Homer Electric Association; Anchorage Municipal Light
Power; and the City of Seward Electric System.
Certified emissions life
means the period during which the engine is designed to properly function in terms of reliability and fuel consumption, without being remanufactured, specified as a number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes first. The values for certified emissions life for stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder are given in 40 CFR 1039.101(g). The values for certified emissions life for stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder are given in 40 CFR 1042.101(e).
Combustion turbine
means all equipment, including but not limited to the turbine, the fuel, air, lubrication and exhaust gas systems, control systems (except emissions control equipment), and any ancillary components and sub-components comprising any simple cycle combustion turbine, any regenerative/recuperative cycle combustion turbine, the combustion turbine portion of any cogeneration cycle combustion system, or the combustion turbine portion of any combined cycle steam/electric generating system.
Compression ignition
means relating to a type of stationary internal combustion engine that is not a spark ignition engine.
Date of manufacture
means one of the following things:
(1) For freshly manufactured engines and modified engines, date of manufacture means the date the engine is originally produced.
(2) For reconstructed engines, date of manufacture means the date the engine was originally produced, except as specified in paragraph (3) of this definition.
(3) Reconstructed engines are assigned a new date of manufacture if the fixed capital cost of the new and refurbished components exceeds 75 percent of the fixed capital cost of a comparable entirely new facility. An engine that is produced from a previously used engine block does not retain the date of manufacture of the engine in which the engine block was previously used if the engine is produced using all new components except for the engine block. In these cases, the date of manufacture is the date of reconstruction or the date the new engine is produced.
Diesel fuel
means any liquid obtained from the distillation of petroleum with a boiling point of approximately 150 to 360 degrees Celsius. One commonly used form is number 2 distillate oil.
Diesel particulate filter
means an emission control technology that reduces PM emissions by trapping the particles in a flow filter substrate and periodically removes the collected particles by either physical action or by oxidizing (burning off) the particles in a process called regeneration.
Emergency stationary internal combustion engine
means any stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. All emergency stationary ICE must comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4211(f) in order to be considered emergency stationary ICE. If the engine does not comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4211(f), then it is not considered to be an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart.
(1) The stationary ICE is operated to provide electrical power or mechanical work during an emergency situation. Examples include stationary ICE used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility (or the normal power source, if the facility runs on its own power production) is interrupted, or stationary ICE used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc.
(2) The stationary ICE is operated under limited circumstances for situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition, as specified in § 60.4211(f).
(3) The stationary ICE operates as part of a financial arrangement with another entity in situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition only as allowed in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i).
Engine manufacturer
means the manufacturer of the engine. See the definition of “manufacturer” in this section.
Fire pump engine
means an emergency stationary internal combustion engine certified to NFPA requirements that is used to provide power to pump water for fire suppression or protection.
Freshly manufactured engine
means an engine that has not been placed into service. An engine becomes freshly manufactured when it is originally produced.
Installed
means the engine is placed and secured at the location where it is intended to be operated.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures a stationary engine for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new stationary engine into commerce in the United States. This includes importers who import stationary engines for sale or resale.
Maximum engine power
means maximum engine power as defined in 40 CFR 1039.801.
Model year
means the calendar year in which an engine is manufactured (see “date of manufacture”), except as follows:
(1) Model year means the annual new model production period of the engine manufacturer in which an engine is manufactured (see “date of manufacture”), if the annual new model production period is different than the calendar year and includes January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year.
(2) For an engine that is converted to a stationary engine after being placed into service as a nonroad or other non-stationary engine, model year means the calendar year or new model production period in which the engine was manufactured (see “date of manufacture”).
Other internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine, except combustion turbines, which is not a reciprocating internal combustion engine or rotary internal combustion engine.
Reciprocating internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine which uses reciprocating motion to convert heat energy into mechanical work.
Remote areas of Alaska
means areas of Alaska that meet either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.
(1) Areas of Alaska that are not accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System (FAHS).
(2) Areas of Alaska that meet all of the following criteria:
(i) The only connection to the FAHS is through the Alaska Marine Highway System, or the stationary CI ICE operation is within an isolated grid in Alaska that is not connected to the statewide electrical grid referred to as the Alaska Railbelt Grid.
(ii) At least 10 percent of the power generated by the stationary CI ICE on an annual basis is used for residential purposes.
(iii) The generating capacity of the source is less than 12 megawatts, or the stationary CI ICE is used exclusively for backup power for renewable energy.
Rotary internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine which uses rotary motion to convert heat energy into mechanical work.
Spark ignition
means relating to a gasoline, natural gas, or liquefied petroleum gas fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation. Dual-fuel engines in which a liquid fuel (typically diesel fuel) is used for CI and gaseous fuel (typically natural gas) is used as the primary fuel at an annual average ratio of less than 2 parts diesel fuel to 100 parts total fuel on an energy equivalent basis are spark ignition engines.
Stationary internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine, except combustion turbines, that converts heat energy into mechanical work and is not mobile. Stationary ICE differ from mobile ICE in that a stationary internal combustion engine is not a nonroad engine as defined at 40 CFR 1068.30 (excluding paragraph (2)(ii) of that definition), and is not used to propel a motor vehicle, aircraft, or a vehicle used solely for competition. Stationary ICE include reciprocating ICE, rotary ICE, and other ICE, except combustion turbines.
Subpart
means 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37972, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6696, Jan. 30, 2013; 81 FR 44219, July 7, 2016; 86 FR 34360, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022]
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Emission Standards for Stationary Pre-2007 Model Year Engines With a Displacement of

# 10 Liters per Cylinder and 2007-2010 Model Year Engines

# 2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and With a Displacement of

# 10 Liters per Cylinder
[As stated in §§ 60.4201(b), 60.4202(b), 60.4204(a), and 60.4205(a), you must comply with the following emission standards]
Maximum engine power
Emission standards for stationary pre-2007 model year engines with a displacement of
10 liters per cylinder and 2007-2010 model year engines
2,237 KW (3,000 HP) and with a displacement of
10 liters per cylinder in g/KW-hr (g/HP-hr)
NMHC + NO
X
HC
NO
X
CO
PM
KW
8 (HP
11)
10.5 (7.8)
8.0 (6.0)
1.0 (0.75)
8≤KW
19 (11≤HP
25)
9.5 (7.1)
6.6 (4.9)
0.80 (0.60)
19≤KW
37 (25≤HP
50)
9.5 (7.1)
5.5 (4.1)
0.80 (0.60)
37≤KW
56 (50≤HP
75)
9.2 (6.9)
56≤KW
75 (75≤HP
100)
9.2 (6.9)
75≤KW
130 (100≤HP
175)
9.2 (6.9)
130≤KW
225 (175≤HP
300)
1.3 (1.0)
9.2 (6.9)
11.4 (8.5)
0.54 (0.40)
225≤KW
450 (300≤HP
600)
1.3 (1.0)
9.2 (6.9)
11.4 (8.5)
0.54 (0.40)
450≤KW≤560 (600≤HP≤750)
1.3 (1.0)
9.2 (6.9)
11.4 (8.5)
0.54 (0.40)
KW
560 (HP
750)
1.3 (1.0)
9.2 (6.9)
11.4 (8.5)
0.54 (0.40)
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Emission Standards for 2008 Model Year and Later Emergency Stationary CI ICE

# 37 KW (50 HP) With a Displacement of

# 10 Liters per Cylinder
[As stated in § 60.4202(a)(1), you must comply with the following emission standards]
Engine power
Emission standards for 2008 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE
37 KW (50 HP) with a displacement of
10 liters per cylinder in g/KW-hr (g/HP-hr)
Model year(s)
NO
X
+ NMHC
CO
PM
KW
8 (HP
11)
2008 +
7.5 (5.6)
8.0 (6.0)
0.40 (0.30)
8≤KW
19 (11≤HP
25)
2008 +
7.5 (5.6)
6.6 (4.9)
0.40 (0.30)
19≤KW
37 (25≤HP
50)
2008 +
7.5 (5.6)
5.5 (4.1)
0.30 (0.22)
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Certification Requirements for Stationary Fire Pump Engines
As stated in § 60.4202(d), you must certify new stationary fire pump engines beginning with the following model years:
Engine
power
Starting model year engine manufacturers must certify
new
stationary
fire pump
engines
according to
§ 60.4202(d)
1
KW
75
(HP
100)
2011
75≤KW
130
(100≤HP
175)
2010
130≤KW≤560
(175≤HP≤750)
2009
KW
560
(HP
750)
2008
1
Manufacturers of fire pump stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 37 kW (50 HP) and less than 450 KW (600 HP) and a rated speed of greater than 2,650 revolutions per minute (rpm) are not required to certify such engines until three model years following the model year indicated in this Table 3 for engines in the applicable engine power category.
[71 FR 39172, July 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37972, June 28, 2011]
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Emission Standards for Stationary Fire Pump Engines
[As stated in §§ 60.4202(d) and 60.4205(c), you must comply with the following emission standards for stationary fire pump engines]
Maximum engine power
Model year(s)
Emission standards for stationary fire pump engines in g/KW-hr
(g/HP-hr)
NMHC + NO
X
CO
PM
KW
8 (HP
11)
2010 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
8.0 (6.0)
1.0 (0.75)
KW
8 (HP
11)
2011 +
7.5 (5.6)
8.0 (6.0)
0.40 (0.30)
8≤KW
19 (11≤HP
25)
2010 and earlier
9.5 (7.1)
6.6 (4.9)
0.80 (0.60)
8≤KW
19 (11≤HP
25)
2011 +
7.5 (5.6)
6.6 (4.9)
0.40 (0.30)
19≤KW
37 (25≤HP
50)
2010 and earlier
9.5 (7.1)
5.5 (4.1)
0.80 (0.60)
19≤KW
37 (25≤HP
50)
2011 +
7.5 (5.6)
5.5 (4.1)
0.30 (0.22)
37≤KW
56 (50≤HP
75)
2010 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
5.0 (3.7)
0.80 (0.60)
37≤KW
56 (50≤HP
75)
2011 +
1
4.7 (3.5)
5.0 (3.7)
0.40 (0.30)
56≤KW
75 (75≤HP
100)
2010 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
5.0 (3.7)
0.80 (0.60)
56≤KW
75 (75≤HP
100)
2011 +
1
4.7 (3.5)
5.0 (3.7)
0.40 (0.30)
75≤KW
130 (100≤HP
175)
2009 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
5.0 (3.7)
0.80 (0.60)
75≤KW
130 (100≤HP
175)
2010 +
2
4.0 (3.0)
5.0 (3.7)
0.30 (0.22)
130≤KW
225 (175≤HP
300)
2008 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
3.5 (2.6)
0.54 (0.40)
130≤KW
225 (175≤HP
300)
2009 +
3
4.0 (3.0)
3.5 (2.6)
0.20 (0.15)
225≤KW
450 (300≤HP
600)
2008 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
3.5 (2.6)
0.54 (0.40)
225≤KW
450 (300≤HP
600)
2009 +
3
4.0 (3.0)
3.5 (2.6)
0.20 (0.15)
450≤KW≤560 (600≤HP≤750)
2008 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
3.5 (2.6)
0.54 (0.40)
450≤KW≤560 (600≤HP≤750)
2009 +
4.0 (3.0)
3.5 (2.6)
0.20 (0.15)
KW
560 (HP
750)
2007 and earlier
10.5 (7.8)
3.5 (2.6)
0.54 (0.40)
KW
560 (HP
750)
2008 +
6.4 (4.8)
3.5 (2.6)
0.20 (0.15)
1
For model years 2011-2013, manufacturers, owners and operators of fire pump stationary CI ICE in this engine power category with a rated speed of greater than 2,650 revolutions per minute (rpm) may comply with the emission limitations for 2010 model year engines.
2
For model years 2010-2012, manufacturers, owners and operators of fire pump stationary CI ICE in this engine power category with a rated speed of greater than 2,650 rpm may comply with the emission limitations for 2009 model year engines.
3
In model years 2009-2011, manufacturers of fire pump stationary CI ICE in this engine power category with a rated speed of greater than 2,650 rpm may comply with the emission limitations for 2008 model year engines.
[89 FR 70513, Aug. 30, 2024]
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Labeling and Recordkeeping Requirements for New Stationary Emergency Engines
[You must comply with the labeling requirements in § 60.4210(f) and the recordkeeping requirements in § 60.4214(b) for new emergency stationary CI ICE beginning in the following model years:]
Engine power
Starting model year
19≤KW
56 (25≤HP
75)
2013
56≤KW
130 (75≤HP
175)
2012
KW≥130 (HP≥175)
2011
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Optional 3-Mode Test Cycle for Stationary Fire Pump Engines
[As stated in § 60.4210(g), manufacturers of fire pump engines may use the following test cycle for testing fire pump engines:]
Mode No.
Engine speed
1
Torque
(percent)
2
Weighting
factors
1
Rated
100
0.30
2
Rated
75
0.50
3
Rated
50
0.20
1
Engine speed: ±2 percent of point.
2
Torque: NFPA certified nameplate HP for 100 percent point. All points should be ±2 percent of engine percent load value.
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Requirements for Performance Tests for Stationary CI ICE With a Displacement of ≥30 Liters per Cylinder
As stated in § 60.4213, you must comply with the following requirements for performance tests for stationary CI ICE with a displacement of ≥30 liters per cylinder:
Each
Complying with the requirement to
You must
Using
According to the following requirements
1. Stationary CI internal combustion engine with a displacement of ≥ 30 liters per cylinder
a. Reduce NO
X
emissions by 90 percent or more;
i. Select the sampling port location and number/location of traverse points at the inlet and outlet of the control device;
(a) For NO
X
, O
2
, and moisture measurement, ducts ≤6 inches in diameter may be sampled at a single point located at the duct centroid and ducts
6 and ≤12 inches in diameter may be sampled at 3 traverse points located at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3% of the measurement line ('3-point long line'). If the duct is
12 inches in diameter
and
the sampling port location meets the two and half-diameter criterion of Section 11.1.1 of Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, the duct may be sampled at '3-point long line'; otherwise, conduct the stratification testing and select sampling points according to Section 8.1.2 of Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4.
ii. Measure O
2
at the inlet and outlet of the control device;
(1) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for NO
X
concentration.
iii. If necessary, measure moisture content at the inlet and outlet of the control device; and
(2) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, or ASTM D 6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17)
(c) Measurements to determine moisture content must be made at the same time as the measurements for NO
X
concentration.
iv. Measure NO
X
at the inlet and outlet of the control device.
(3) Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, or ASTM D 6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17)
(d) NO
X
concentration must be at 15 percent O
2
, dry basis. Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
b. Limit the concentration of NO
X
in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust.
i. Select the sampling port location and number/location of traverse points at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine;
(a) For NO
X
, O
2
, and moisture measurement, ducts ≤6 inches in diameter may be sampled at a single point located at the duct centroid and ducts
6 and ≤12 inches in diameter may be sampled at 3 traverse points located at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3% of the measurement line ('3-point long line'). If the duct is
12 inches in diameter
and
the sampling port location meets the two and half-diameter criterion of Section 11.1.1 of Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, the duct may be sampled at '3-point long line'; otherwise, conduct the stratification testing and select sampling points according to Section 8.1.2 of Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4.
ii. Determine the O
2
concentration of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location;
(1) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurement for NO
X
concentration.
iii. If necessary, measure moisture content of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location; and
(2) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, or ASTM D 6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17)
(c) Measurements to determine moisture content must be made at the same time as the measurement for NO
X
concentration.
iv. Measure NO
X
at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine; if using a control device, the sampling site must be located at the outlet of the control device.
(3) Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, or ASTM D 6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17)
(d) NO
X
concentration must be at 15 percent O
2
, dry basis. Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
c. Reduce PM emissions by 60 percent or more
i. Select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points;
(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1
(a) Sampling sites must be located at the inlet and outlet of the control device.
ii. Measure O
2
at the inlet and outlet of the control device;
(2) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for PM concentration.
iii. If necessary, measure moisture content at the inlet and outlet of the control device; and
(3) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3
(c) Measurements to determine and moisture content must be made at the same time as the measurements for PM concentration.
iv. Measure PM at the inlet and outlet of the control device.
(4) Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3
(d) PM concentration must be at 15 percent O
2
, dry basis. Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
d. Limit the concentration of PM in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust
i. Select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points;
(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1
(a) If using a control device, the sampling site must be located at the outlet of the control device.
ii. Determine the O
2
concentration of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location;
(2) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for PM concentration.
iii. If necessary, measure moisture content of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location; and
(3) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3
(c) Measurements to determine moisture content must be made at the same time as the measurements for PM concentration.
iv. Measure PM at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine.
(4) Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3
(d) PM concentration must be at 15 percent O
2
, dry basis. Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
[79 FR 11251, Feb. 27, 2014]
Pt. 60, Subpt. IIII, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart IIII of Part 60—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart IIII
[As stated in § 60.4218, you must comply with the following applicable General Provisions:]
General Provisions
citation
Subject of citation
Applies
to
subpart
Explanation
§ 60.1
General applicability of the General Provisions
Yes
§ 60.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional terms defined in § 60.4219.
§ 60.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes
§ 60.4
Address
Yes
§ 60.5
Determination of construction or modification
Yes
§ 60.6
Review of plans
Yes
§ 60.7
Notification and Recordkeeping
Yes
Except that § 60.7 only applies as specified in § 60.4214(a).
§ 60.8
Performance tests
Yes
Except that § 60.8 only applies to stationary CI ICE with a displacement of (≥30 liters per cylinder and engines that are not certified.
§ 60.9
Availability of information
Yes
§ 60.10
State Authority
Yes
§ 60.11
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
No
Requirements are specified in subpart IIII.
§ 60.12
Circumvention
Yes
§ 60.13
Monitoring requirements
Yes
Except that § 60.13 only applies to stationary CI ICE with a displacement of (≥30 liters per cylinder.
§ 60.14
Modification
Yes
§ 60.15
Reconstruction
Yes
§ 60.16
Priority list
Yes
§ 60.17
Incorporations by reference
Yes
§ 60.18
General control device requirements
No
§ 60.19
General notification and reporting requirements
Yes

# Subpart JJJJ—Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines

# Source:
73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 60.4230
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary spark ignition (SI) internal combustion engines (ICE) as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. For the purposes of this subpart, the date that construction commences is the date the engine is ordered by the owner or operator.
(1) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 kilowatt (KW) (25 horsepower (HP)) that are manufactured on or after July 1, 2008.
(2) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are gasoline fueled or that are rich burn engines fueled by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), where the date of manufacture is:
(i) On or after July 1, 2008; or
(ii) On or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines.
(3) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are not gasoline fueled and are not rich burn engines fueled by LPG, where the manufacturer participates in the voluntary manufacturer certification program described in this subpart and where the date of manufacture is:
(i) On or after July 1, 2007, for engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP);
(ii) On or after January 1, 2008, for lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP;
(iii) On or after July 1, 2008, for engines with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP; or
(iv) On or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines.
(4) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that commence construction after June 12, 2006, where the stationary SI ICE are manufactured:
(i) On or after July 1, 2007, for engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP);
(ii) on or after January 1, 2008, for lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP;
(iii) on or after July 1, 2008, for engines with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP; or
(iv) on or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP).
(5) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, and any person that modifies or reconstructs any stationary SI ICE after June 12, 2006.
(6) The provisions of § 60.4236 of this subpart are applicable to all owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that commence construction after June 12, 2006.
(b) The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to stationary SI ICE being tested at an engine test cell/stand.
(c) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart as applicable.
(d) For the purposes of this subpart, stationary SI ICE using alcohol-based fuels are considered gasoline engines.
(e) Stationary SI ICE may be eligible for exemption from the requirements of this subpart as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C (or the exemptions described in 40 CFR parts 1048 and 1054, for engines that would need to be certified to standards in those parts), except that owners and operators, as well as manufacturers, may be eligible to request an exemption for national security.
(f) Owners and operators of facilities with internal combustion engines that are acting as temporary replacement units and that are located at a stationary source for less than 1 year and that have been properly certified as meeting the standards that would be applicable to such engine under the appropriate nonroad engine provisions, are not required to meet any other provisions under this subpart with regard to such engines.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 37972, June 28, 2011; 86 FR 34360, June 29, 2021]

# Emission Standards for Manufacturers
§ 60.4231
What emission standards must I meet if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines or equipment containing such engines?
(a) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) manufactured on or after July 1, 2008 to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054, as follows:
If engine displacement is . . .
and manufacturing dates are . . .
the engine must meet the following non-handheld emission standards identified in 40 CFR part 1054 and related requirements:
(1) Below 225 cc
July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2011
Phase 2.
(2) Below 225 cc
January 1, 2012 or later
Phase 3.
(3) At or above 225 cc
July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010
Phase 2.
(4) At or above 225 cc
January 1, 2011 or later
Phase 3.
(b) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) (except emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP) that use gasoline and that are manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(2), or manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) for emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 130 HP, to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1048. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their emergency stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP that use gasoline and that are manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) to the Phase 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers may certify
their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters (cc) that use gasoline to the certification emission standards and other requirements as appropriate for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054.
(c) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) (except emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP) that are rich burn engines that use LPG and that are manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(2), or manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) for emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 130 HP, to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1048. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their emergency stationary SI ICE greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP that are rich burn engines that use LPG and that are manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) to the Phase 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers may certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc that are rich burn engines that use LPG to the certification emission standards and other requirements as appropriate for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054.
(d) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who choose to certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 75 KW (100 HP) (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG and emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP) under the voluntary manufacturer certification program described in this subpart must certify those engines to the certification emission standards for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1048. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who choose to certify their emergency stationary SI ICE greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG), must certify those engines to the Phase 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers may certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG) to the certification emission standards and other requirements as appropriate for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054. For stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 75 KW (100 HP) (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG and emergency stationary ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP) manufactured prior to January 1, 2011, manufacturers may choose to certify these engines to the standards in Table 1 to this subpart applicable to engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than 500 HP.
(e) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who choose to certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 75 KW (100 HP) (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG) under the voluntary manufacturer certification program described in this subpart must certify those engines to the emission standards in Table 1 to this subpart. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers may certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 75 KW (100 HP) that are lean burn engines that use LPG to the certification emission standards for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1048. For stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 100 HP (75 KW)
and less than 500 HP (373 KW) manufactured prior to January 1, 2011, and for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (373 KW) manufactured prior to July 1, 2010, manufacturers may choose to certify these engines to the certification emission standards for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1048 applicable to engines that are not severe duty engines.
(f) Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
(g) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers are not required to certify reconstructed engines; however manufacturers may elect to do so. The reconstructed engine must be certified to the emission standards specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section that are applicable to the model year, maximum engine power and displacement of the reconstructed stationary SI ICE.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59175, Oct. 8, 2008; 76 FR 37973, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6697, Jan. 30, 2013; 86 FR 34360, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4232
How long must my engines meet the emission standards if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines?
Engines manufactured by stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the emission standards as required in § 60.4231 during the certified emissions life of the engines.

# Emission Standards for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4233
What emission standards must I meet if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?
(a) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, must comply with the emission standards in § 60.4231(a) for their stationary SI ICE.
(b) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) that use gasoline must comply with the emission standards in § 60.4231(b) for their stationary SI ICE.
(c) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) manufactured on or after the applicable date in § 60.4230(a)(4) that are rich burn engines that use LPG must comply with the emission standards in § 60.4231(c) for their stationary SI ICE.
(d) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 75 KW (100 HP) (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG) must comply with the emission standards for field testing in 40 CFR 1048.101(c) for their non-emergency stationary SI ICE and with the emission standards in Table 1 to this subpart for their emergency stationary SI ICE. Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 75 KW (100 HP) manufactured prior to January 1, 2011, that were certified to the standards in Table 1 to this subpart applicable to engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than 500 HP, may optionally choose to meet those standards.
(e) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 75 KW (100 HP) (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG) must comply with the emission standards in Table 1 to this subpart for their stationary SI ICE. For owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 100 HP (except gasoline and rich burn engines that use LPG) manufactured prior to January 1, 2011 that were certified to the certification emission standards in 40 CFR part 1048 applicable to engines that are not severe duty engines, if such stationary SI ICE was certified to a carbon monoxide (CO) standard above the standard in Table 1 to this subpart,
then the owners and operators may meet the CO certification (not field testing) standard for which the engine was certified.
(f) Owners and operators of any modified or reconstructed stationary SI ICE subject to this subpart must meet the requirements as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP), that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, must comply with emission standards in § 60.4231(a) for their stationary SI ICE. Engines with a date of manufacture prior to July 1, 2008 must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(a) applicable to engines manufactured on July 1, 2008.
(2) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are gasoline engines and are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, must comply with the emission standards in § 60.4231(b) for their stationary SI ICE. Engines with a date of manufacture prior to July 1, 2008 (or January 1, 2009 for emergency engines) must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(b) applicable to engines manufactured on July 1, 2008 (or January 1, 2009 for emergency engines).
(3) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are rich burn engines that use LPG, that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, must comply with the same emission standards as those specified in § 60.4231(c). Engines with a date of manufacture prior to July 1, 2008 (or January 1, 2009 for emergency engines) must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(c) applicable to engines manufactured on July 1, 2008 (or January 1, 2009 for emergency engines).
(4) Owners and operators of stationary SI natural gas and lean burn LPG engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP), that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, must comply with the same emission standards as those specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, except that such owners and operators of non-emergency engines and emergency engines greater than or equal to 130 HP must meet a nitrogen oxides (NO
X
) emission standard of 3.0 grams per HP-hour (g/HP-hr), a CO emission standard of 4.0 g/HP-hr (5.0 g/HP-hr for non-emergency engines less than 100 HP), and a volatile organic compounds (VOC) emission standard of 1.0 g/HP-hr, or a NO
X
emission standard of 250 ppmvd at 15 percent oxygen (O
2
), a CO emission standard 540 ppmvd at 15 percent O
2
(675 ppmvd at 15 percent O
2
for non-emergency engines less than 100 HP), and a VOC emission standard of 86 ppmvd at 15 percent O
2
, where the date of manufacture of the engine is:
(i) Prior to July 1, 2007, for non-emergency engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn natural gas engines and LPG engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP);
(ii) Prior to July 1, 2008, for non-emergency engines with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP;
(iii) Prior to January 1, 2009, for emergency engines;
(iv) Prior to January 1, 2008, for non-emergency lean burn natural gas engines and LPG engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP.
(5) Owners and operators of stationary SI landfill/digester gas ICE engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP), that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, must comply with the same emission standards as those specified in paragraph (e) of this section for stationary landfill/digester gas engines. Engines with maximum engine power less than 500 HP and a date of manufacture prior to July 1, 2008 must comply with the emission standards specified in paragraph (e) of this section for stationary landfill/digester gas ICE with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP manufactured on July 1, 2008. Engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP) and a date of manufacture prior to July 1, 2007 must comply with the emission standards specified in paragraph (e) of
this section for stationary landfill/digester gas ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP) manufactured on July 1, 2007. Lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP with a date of manufacture prior to January 1, 2008 must comply with the emission standards specified in paragraph (e) of this section for stationary landfill/digester gas ICE that are lean burn engines greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP and manufactured on January 1, 2008.
(g) Owners and operators of stationary SI wellhead gas ICE engines may petition the Administrator for approval on a case-by-case basis to meet emission standards no less stringent than the emission standards that apply to stationary emergency SI engines greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP due to the presence of high sulfur levels in the fuel, as specified in Table 1 to this subpart. The request must, at a minimum, demonstrate that the fuel has high sulfur levels that prevent the use of aftertreatment controls and also that the owner has reasonably made all attempts possible to obtain an engine that will meet the standards without the use of aftertreatment controls. The petition must request the most stringent standards reasonably applicable to the engine using the fuel.
(h) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are required to meet standards that reference 40 CFR 1048.101 must, if testing their engines in use, meet the standards in that section applicable to field testing, except as indicated in paragraph (e) of this section.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 37973, June 28, 2011]
§ 60.4234
How long must I meet the emission standards if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?
Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE must operate and maintain stationary SI ICE that achieve the emission standards as required in § 60.4233 over the entire life of the engine.

# Other Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4235
What fuel requirements must I meet if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI gasoline fired internal combustion engine subject to this subpart?
Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE subject to this subpart that use gasoline must use gasoline that meets the per gallon sulfur limit in 40 CFR 1090.205.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78463, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 60.4236
What is the deadline for importing or installing stationary SI ICE produced in previous model years?
(a) After July 1, 2010, owners and operators may not install stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power of less than 500 HP that do not meet the applicable requirements in § 60.4233.
(b) After July 1, 2009, owners and operators may not install stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 500 HP that do not meet the applicable requirements in § 60.4233, except that lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP that do not meet the applicable requirements in § 60.4233 may not be installed after January 1, 2010.
(c) For emergency stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than 19 KW (25 HP), owners and operators may not install engines that do not meet the applicable requirements in § 60.4233 after January 1, 2011.
(d) In addition to the requirements specified in §§ 60.4231 and 60.4233, it is prohibited to import stationary SI ICE less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP), stationary rich burn LPG SI ICE, and stationary gasoline SI ICE that do not meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, after the date specified in paragraph (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e) The requirements of this section do not apply to owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that have been modified or reconstructed, and they do not apply to engines that were removed
from one existing location and reinstalled at a new location.
§ 60.4237
What are the monitoring requirements if I am an owner or operator of an emergency stationary SI internal combustion engine?
(a) Starting on July 1, 2010, if the emergency stationary SI internal combustion engine that is greater than or equal to 500 HP that was built on or after July 1, 2010, does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator must install a non-resettable hour meter.
(b) Starting on January 1, 2011, if the emergency stationary SI internal combustion engine that is greater than or equal to 130 HP and less than 500 HP that was built on or after January 1, 2011, does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator must install a non-resettable hour meter.
(c) If you are an owner or operator of an emergency stationary SI internal combustion engine that is less than 130 HP, was built on or after July 1, 2008, and does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, you must install a non-resettable hour meter upon startup of your emergency engine.

# Compliance Requirements for Manufacturers
§ 60.4238
What are my compliance requirements if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines
≤
19 KW (25 HP) or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who are subject to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(a) must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification and testing procedures required in 40 CFR part 1054, subparts C and F. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
[86 FR 34361, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4239
What are my compliance requirements if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines
19 KW (25 HP) that use gasoline or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who are subject to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(b) must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1048, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in that part. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054, and manufacturers of stationary SI emergency engines that are greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP who meet the Phase 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification and testing procedures required in 40 CFR part 1054, subparts C and F. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
[86 FR 34361, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4240
What are my compliance requirements if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines
19 KW (25 HP) that are rich burn engines that use LPG or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who are subject to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(c) must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1048, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in that part. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40
HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054, and manufacturers of stationary SI emergency engines that are greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP who meet the Phase 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification and testing procedures required in 40 CFR part 1054, subparts C and F. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
[86 FR 34361, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4241
What are my compliance requirements if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines participating in the voluntary certification program or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
(a) Manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that do not use gasoline and are not rich burn engines that use LPG can choose to certify their engines to the emission standards in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, under the voluntary certification program described in this subpart. Manufacturers who certify their engines under the voluntary certification program must meet the requirements as specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. In addition, manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines who choose to certify their engines under the voluntary certification program, must also meet the requirements as specified in § 60.4247. Manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines who choose not to certify their engines under this section must notify the ultimate purchaser that testing requirements apply as described in § 60.4243(b)(2); manufacturers must keep a copy of this notification for five years after shipping each engine and make those documents available to EPA upon request.
(b) Manufacturers of engines other than those certified to standards in 40 CFR part 1054 must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1048, subpart C, and must follow the same test procedures that apply to Large SI nonroad engines under 40 CFR part 1048, but must use the D-1 cycle of International Organization for Standardization 8178-4: 1996(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or the test cycle requirements specified in Table 3 to 40 CFR 1048.505, except that Table 3 of 40 CFR 1048.505 applies to high load engines only. Manufacturers of any size may certify their stationary emergency engines at or above 130 hp using assigned deterioration factors established by EPA, consistent with 40 CFR 1048.240. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054, and manufacturers of emergency engines that are greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP who meet the Phase 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification and testing procedures required in 40 CFR part 1054, subparts C and F. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
(c) Certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, is voluntary, but manufacturers who decide to certify are subject to all of the requirements indicated in this subpart with regard to the engines included in their certification. Manufacturers must clearly label their stationary SI engines as certified or non-certified engines.
(d) Manufacturers of natural gas fired stationary SI ICE who conduct voluntary certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified
in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, must certify their engines for operation using fuel that meets the definition of pipeline-quality natural gas. The fuel used for certifying stationary SI natural gas engines must meet the definition of pipeline-quality natural gas as described in § 60.4248. In addition, the manufacturer must provide information to the owner and operator of the certified stationary SI engine including the specifications of the pipeline-quality natural gas to which the engine is certified and what adjustments the owner or operator must make to the engine when installed in the field to ensure compliance with the emission standards.
(e) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE that are lean burn engines fueled by LPG who conduct voluntary certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, must certify their engines for operation using fuel that meets the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.720.
(f) Manufacturers may certify their engines for operation using gaseous fuels in addition to pipeline-quality natural gas; however, the manufacturer must specify the properties of that fuel and provide testing information showing that the engine will meet the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, when operating on that fuel. The manufacturer must also provide instructions for configuring the stationary engine to meet the emission standards on fuels that do not meet the pipeline-quality natural gas definition. The manufacturer must also provide information to the owner and operator of the certified stationary SI engine regarding the configuration that is most conducive to reduced emissions where the engine will be operated on gaseous fuels with different quality than the fuel that it was certified to.
(g) A stationary SI engine manufacturer may certify an engine family solely to the standards applicable to landfill/digester gas engines as specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, but must certify their engines for operation using landfill/digester gas and must add a permanent label stating that the engine is for use only in landfill/digester gas applications. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1048.135(b).
(h) For purposes of this subpart, when calculating emissions of volatile organic compounds, emissions of formaldehyde should not be included.
(i) For engines being certified to the voluntary certification standards in Table 1 of this subpart, the VOC measurement shall be made by following the procedures in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart C, to determine the total NMHC emissions. As an alternative, manufacturers may measure ethane, as well as methane, for excluding such levels from the total VOC measurement.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59176, Oct. 8, 2008; 76 FR 37974, June 28, 2011; 86 FR 34361, June 29, 2021]
§ 60.4242
What other requirements must I meet if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines or equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
(a) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the provisions of 40 CFR parts 1048, 1054, and 1068, as applicable, except that engines certified pursuant to the voluntary certification procedures in § 60.4241 are subject only to the provisions indicated in § 60.4247 and are permitted to provide instructions to owners and operators allowing for deviations from certified configurations, if such deviations are consistent with the provisions of § 60.4241(c) through (f). Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, as applicable. Labels on engines certified to 40 CFR part 1048 must refer to stationary engines, rather than or in addition to nonroad engines, as appropriate.
(b) An engine manufacturer certifying an engine family or families to standards under this subpart that are identical to standards identified in 40 CFR part 1048 or 1054 for that model year may certify any such family that contains both nonroad and stationary engines as a single engine family and/
or may include any such family containing stationary engines in the averaging, banking and trading provisions applicable for such engines under those parts. This paragraph (b) also applies to equipment or component manufacturers certifying to standards under 40 CFR part 1060.
(c) Manufacturers of engine families certified to 40 CFR part 1048 may meet the labeling requirements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section for stationary SI ICE by either adding a separate label containing the information required in paragraph (a) of this section or by adding the words “and stationary” after the word “nonroad” to the label.
(d) For all engines manufactured on or after January 1, 2011, and for all engines with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, a stationary SI engine manufacturer that certifies an engine family solely to the standards applicable to emergency engines must add a permanent label stating that the engines in that family are for emergency use only. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1048.135(b).
(e) All stationary SI engines subject to mandatory certification that do not meet the requirements of this subpart must be labeled and exported according to 40 CFR 1068.230. Manufacturers of stationary engines with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP that are not certified to standards and other requirements under 40 CFR part 1048 are subject to the labeling provisions of 40 CFR 1048.20 pertaining to excluded stationary engines.
(f) For manufacturers of gaseous-fueled stationary engines required to meet the warranty provisions in 40 CFR 1054.120, we may establish an hour-based warranty period equal to at least the certified emissions life of the engines (in engine operating hours) if we determine that these engines are likely to operate for a number of hours greater than the applicable useful life within 24 months. We will not approve an alternate warranty under this paragraph (f) for nonroad engines. An alternate warranty period approved under this paragraph (f) will be the specified number of engine operating hours or two years, whichever comes first. The engine manufacturer shall request this alternate warranty period in its application for certification or in an earlier submission. We may approve an alternate warranty period for an engine family subject to the following conditions:
(1) The engines must be equipped with non-resettable hour meters.
(2) The engines must be designed to operate for a number of hours substantially greater than the applicable certified emissions life.
(3) The emission-related warranty for the engines may not be shorter than any published warranty offered by the manufacturer without charge for the engines. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component shall not be shorter than any published warranty offered by the manufacturer without charge for that component.
[86 FR 34362, June 29, 2021]

# Compliance Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4243
What are my compliance requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?
(a) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that is manufactured after July 1, 2008, and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(a) through (c), you must comply by purchasing an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4231(a) through (c), as applicable, for the same engine class and maximum engine power. In addition, you must meet one of the requirements specified in (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you operate and maintain the certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, you must keep records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance, but no performance testing is required if you are an owner or operator. You must also meet the requirements as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subparts A through D, as they apply to you. If you adjust engine settings according to
and consistent with the manufacturer's instructions, your stationary SI internal combustion engine will not be considered out of compliance.
(2) If you do not operate and maintain the certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, your engine will be considered a non-certified engine, and you must demonstrate compliance according to (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine less than 100 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions, but no performance testing is required if you are an owner or operator.
(ii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test within 1 year of engine startup to demonstrate compliance.
(iii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test within 1 year of engine startup and conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(d) or (e), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Purchasing an engine certified according to procedures specified in this subpart, for the same model year and demonstrating compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Purchasing a non-certified engine and demonstrating compliance with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(d) or (e) and according to the requirements specified in § 60.4244, as applicable, and according to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 25 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance.
(ii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test and conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance.
(c) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f), you must demonstrate compliance according paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, except that if you comply according to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, you demonstrate that your non-certified engine complies with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f).
(d) If you own or operate an emergency stationary ICE, you must operate the emergency stationary ICE according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. In order for the engine to be considered an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart, any operation other than emergency operation, maintenance and testing, and operation in non-emergency situations for 50 hours per year, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3), is prohibited. If you do not operate the engine according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3), the engine will not be considered an emergency engine under this subpart and must meet all requirements for non-emergency engines.
(1) There is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary ICE in emergency situations.
(2) You may operate your emergency stationary ICE for the purpose specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for a maximum of 100 hours per calendar year. Any operation for non-emergency situations as allowed by paragraph (d)(3) of this section counts as part of the 100 hours per calendar year allowed by this paragraph (d)(2).
(i) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are recommended by federal, state or local government, the manufacturer, the vendor, the regional transmission organization or equivalent balancing authority and transmission operator, or the insurance company associated with the engine. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of additional hours to be used for maintenance checks and readiness testing, but a petition is not required if the owner or operator maintains records indicating that federal, state, or local standards require maintenance and testing of emergency ICE beyond 100 hours per calendar year.
(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]
(3) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.
(i) The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used to supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if all of the following conditions are met:
(A) The engine is dispatched by the local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator;
(B) The dispatch is intended to mitigate local transmission and/or distribution limitations so as to avert potential voltage collapse or line overloads that could lead to the interruption of power supply in a local area or region.
(C) The dispatch follows reliability, emergency operation or similar protocols that follow specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines.
(D) The power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local transmission and distribution system.
(E) The owner or operator identifies and records the entity that dispatches the engine and the specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines that are being followed for dispatching the engine. The local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator may keep these records on behalf of the engine owner or operator.
(ii) [Reserved]
(e) Owners and operators of stationary SI natural gas fired engines may operate their engines using propane for a maximum of 100 hours per year as an alternative fuel solely during emergency operations, but must keep records of such use. If propane is used for more than 100 hours per year in an engine that is not certified to the emission standards when using propane, the owners and operators are required to conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards of § 60.4233.
(f) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that is less than or equal to 500 HP and you purchase a non-certified engine or you do not operate and maintain your certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's written emission-related instructions, you are required to perform initial performance testing as indicated in this section, but you are not required to conduct subsequent performance testing unless the stationary engine undergoes rebuild, major repair or maintenance. Engine rebuilding means to overhaul an engine or to otherwise perform extensive service on the engine (or on a portion of the engine or engine system). For the purpose of this paragraph (f), perform extensive service means to disassemble the engine (or portion of the engine or engine system), inspect and/or replace many of the parts, and reassemble the engine (or portion of the engine or engine system) in such a manner that significantly increases the service life of the resultant engine.
(g) It is expected that air-to-fuel ratio controllers will be used with the operation of three-way catalysts/non-selective catalytic reduction. The AFR controller must be maintained and operated appropriately in order to ensure proper operation of the engine and control device to minimize emissions at all times.
(h) If you are an owner/operator of an stationary SI internal combustion engine with maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP that is manufactured after July 1, 2007 and before July 1, 2008, and must comply with the emission standards specified in sections 60.4233(b) or (c), you must comply by one of the methods specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(4) of this section.
(1) Purchasing an engine certified according to 40 CFR part 1048. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's specifications.
(2) Keeping records of performance test results for each pollutant for a test conducted on a similar engine. The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart and these methods must have been followed correctly.
(3) Keeping records of engine manufacturer data indicating compliance with the standards.
(4) Keeping records of control device vendor data indicating compliance with the standards.
(i) If you are an owner or operator of a modified or reconstructed stationary SI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (i)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Purchasing, or otherwise owning or operating, an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4233(f), as applicable.
(2) Conducting a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4244. The test must be conducted within 60 days after the engine commences operation after the modification or reconstruction.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 37974, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6697, Jan. 30, 2013; 86 FR 34362, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022]

# Testing Requirements for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4244
What test methods and other procedures must I use if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?
Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE who conduct performance tests must follow the procedures in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(a) Each performance test must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load and according to the requirements in § 60.8 and under the specific conditions that are specified by Table 2 to this subpart.
(b) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 60.8(c). If your stationary SI internal combustion engine is non-operational, you do not need to startup the engine solely to conduct a performance test; however, you must conduct the
performance test immediately upon startup of the engine.
(c) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 60.8(f). Each test run must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load and last at least 1 hour.
(d) To determine compliance with the NO
X
mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of NO
X
in the engine exhaust using Equation 1 of this section:
ER18JA08.000
Where:
ER = Emission rate of NO
X
in g/HP-hr.
C
d
= Measured NO
X
concentration in parts per million by volume (ppmv).
1.912 × 10
−3
= Conversion constant for ppm NO
X
to grams per standard cubic meter at 20 degrees Celsius.
Q = Stack gas volumetric flow rate, in standard cubic meter per hour, dry basis.
T = Time of test run, in hours.
HP-hr = Brake work of the engine, horsepower-hour (HP-hr).
(e) To determine compliance with the CO mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of CO in the engine exhaust using Equation 2 of this section:
ER18JA08.001
Where:
ER = Emission rate of CO in g/HP-hr.
C
d
= Measured CO concentration in ppmv.
1.164 × 10
−3
= Conversion constant for ppm CO to grams per standard cubic meter at 20 degrees Celsius.
Q = Stack gas volumetric flow rate, in standard cubic meters per hour, dry basis.
T = Time of test run, in hours.
HP-hr = Brake work of the engine, in HP-hr.
(f) For purposes of this subpart, when calculating emissions of VOC, emissions of formaldehyde should not be included. To determine compliance with the VOC mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of VOC in the engine exhaust using Equation 3 of this section:
ER18JA08.002
Where:
ER = Emission rate of VOC in g/HP-hr.
C
d
= VOC concentration measured as propane in ppmv.
1.833 × 10
−3
= Conversion constant for ppm VOC measured as propane, to grams per standard cubic meter at 20 degrees Celsius.
Q = Stack gas volumetric flow rate, in standard cubic meters per hour, dry basis.
T = Time of test run, in hours.
HP-hr = Brake work of the engine, in HP-hr.
(g) If the owner/operator chooses to measure VOC emissions using either Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, then it has the option of correcting the measured VOC emissions to account for the potential differences in measured values between these methods and Method 25A. The results from Method 18 and Method 320 can be corrected for response factor differences
using Equations 4 and 5 of this section. The corrected VOC concentration can then be placed on a propane basis using Equation 6 of this section.
ER18JA08.003
Where:
RF
i
= Response factor of compound i when measured with EPA Method 25A.
C
M
i
= Measured concentration of compound i in ppmv as carbon.
C
A
i
= True concentration of compound i in ppmv as carbon.
ER18JA08.004
Where:
C
i
corr
= Concentration of compound i corrected to the value that would have been measured by EPA Method 25A, ppmv as carbon.
C
i
meas
= Concentration of compound i measured by EPA Method 320, ppmv as carbon.
ER18JA08.005
Where:
C
Peq
= Concentration of compound i in mg of propane equivalent per DSCM.

# Notification, Reports, and Records for Owners and Operators
§ 60.4245
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?
Owners or operators of stationary SI ICE must meet the following notification, reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Owners and operators of all stationary SI ICE must keep records of the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All notifications submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any notification.
(2) Maintenance conducted on the engine.
(3) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is a certified engine, documentation from the manufacturer that the engine is certified to meet the emission standards and information as required in 40 CFR parts 1048, 1054, and 1060, as applicable.
(4) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is not a certified engine or is a certified engine operating in a non-certified manner and subject to § 60.4243(a)(2), documentation that the engine meets the emission standards.
(b) For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2010, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 130 HP and less than 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2011 that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner or operator must document how many hours are spent for emergency operation, including what classified the operation as emergency and how many hours are spent for non-emergency operation.
(c) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP that have not been certified by an engine manufacturer to meet the emission standards in § 60.4231 must submit an initial notification as required in § 60.7(a)(1). The notification must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. Beginning on February 26, 2025 submit the notification electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(1) Name and address of the owner or operator;
(2) The address of the affected source;
(3) Engine information including make, model, engine family, serial number, model year, maximum engine power, and engine displacement;
(4) Emission control equipment; and
(5) Fuel used.
(d) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are subject to performance testing must submit a copy of each performance test as conducted in § 60.4244 within 60 days after the test has been completed. Performance test reports using EPA Method 18, EPA Method 320, or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference—see 40 CFR 60.17) to measure VOC require reporting of all QA/QC data. For Method 18, report results from sections 8.4 and 11.1.1.4; for Method 320, report results from sections 8.6.2, 9.0, and 13.0; and for ASTM D6348-03 report results of all QA/QC procedures in Annexes 1-7. Beginning on February 26, 2025, performance tests must be reported electronically according to paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) If you own or operate an emergency stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power more than 100 HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The report must contain the following information:
(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.
(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iii) Engine site rating and model year.
(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.
(v)-(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.
(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.
(3) The annual report must be submitted electronically using the subpart specific reporting form in the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). However, if the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the written report must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit annual report electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.
(f) Beginning on February 26, 2025, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, you must submit the results following the procedures specified in paragraph (g) of this section. Data collected using test methods that are supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.
(g) If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs
(g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described in paragraph (g) of this section, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a
claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
(j) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59177, Oct. 8, 2008; 78 FR 6697, Jan. 30, 2013; 81 FR 59809, Aug. 30, 2016; 86 FR 34362, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022; 89 FR 70514, Aug. 30, 2024]

# General Provisions
§ 60.4246
What General Provisions and confidential information provisions apply to me?
(a) Table 3 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 60.1 through 60.19 apply to you.
(b) The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for engine manufacturers. For others, the general confidential business information (CBI) provisions apply as described in 40 CFR part 2.
[88 FR 4471, Jan. 24, 2023]

# Mobile Source Provisions
§ 60.4247
What parts of the mobile source provisions apply to me if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?
(a) Manufacturers certifying to emission standards in 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054. Note that 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, describes various provisions that do not apply for engines meeting Phase 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1054. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060 to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.
(b) Manufacturers required to certify to emission standards in 40 CFR part 1048 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1048. Manufacturers certifying to emission standards in 40 CFR part 1048 pursuant to the voluntary certification program must meet the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart
as well as the standards in 40 CFR 1048.101.
(c) For manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines participating in the voluntary certification program and certifying engines to Table 1 to this subpart, Table 4 to this subpart shows which parts of the mobile source provisions in 40 CFR parts 1048, 1065, and 1068 apply to you. Compliance with the deterioration factor provisions under 40 CFR 1048.205(n) and 1048.240 will be required for engines built new on and after January 1, 2010. Prior to January 1, 2010, manufacturers of stationary internal combustion engines participating in the voluntary certification program have the option to develop their own deterioration factors based on an engineering analysis.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59177, Oct. 8, 2008; 86 FR 34362, June 29, 2021]

# Definitions
§ 60.4248
What definitions apply to this subpart?
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the CAA and in subpart A of this part.
Certified emissions life
means the period during which the engine is designed to properly function in terms of reliability and fuel consumption, without being remanufactured, specified as a number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes first. The values for certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) are given in 40 CFR 1054.107 and 1060.101, as appropriate. The values for certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) certified to 40 CFR part 1048 are given in 40 CFR 1048.101(g). The certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 75 KW (100 HP) certified under the voluntary manufacturer certification program of this subpart is 5,000 hours or 7 years, whichever comes first. You may request in your application for certification that we approve a shorter certified emissions life for an engine family. We may approve a shorter certified emissions life, in hours of engine operation but not in years, if we determine that these engines will rarely operate longer than the shorter certified emissions life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information. The certified emissions life value may not be shorter than any of the following:
(1) 1,000 hours of operation.
(2) Your recommended overhaul interval.
(3) Your mechanical warranty for the engine.
Certified stationary internal combustion engine
means an engine that belongs to an engine family that has a certificate of conformity that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part, or of 40 CFR part 1048 or 1054, as appropriate.
Combustion turbine
means all equipment, including but not limited to the turbine, the fuel, air, lubrication and exhaust gas systems, control systems (except emissions control equipment), and any ancillary components and sub-components comprising any simple cycle combustion turbine, any regenerative/recuperative cycle combustion turbine, the combustion turbine portion of any cogeneration cycle combustion system, or the combustion turbine portion of any combined cycle steam/electric generating system.
Compression ignition
means relating to a type of stationary internal combustion engine that is not a spark ignition engine.
Date of manufacture
means one of the following things:
(1) For freshly manufactured engines and modified engines, date of manufacture means the date the engine is originally produced.
(2) For reconstructed engines, date of manufacture means the date the engine was originally produced, except as specified in paragraph (3) of this definition.
(3) Reconstructed engines are assigned a new date of manufacture if the fixed capital cost of the new and refurbished components exceeds 75 percent of the fixed capital cost of a comparable entirely new facility. An engine that is produced from a previously used engine block does not retain the date of manufacture of the engine in which the engine block was previously used if the engine is produced using all new components except for the engine block. In these cases, the date of manufacture is the date of reconstruction or the date the new engine is produced.
Diesel fuel
means any liquid obtained from the distillation of petroleum with a boiling point of approximately 150 to 360 degrees Celsius. One commonly used form is number 2 distillate oil.
Digester gas
means any gaseous by-product of wastewater treatment typically formed through the anaerobic decomposition of organic waste materials and composed principally of methane and carbon dioxide (CO
2
).
Emergency stationary internal combustion engine
means any stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. All emergency stationary ICE must comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4243(d) in order to be considered emergency stationary ICE. If the engine does not comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4243(d), then it is not considered to be an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart.
(1) The stationary ICE is operated to provide electrical power or mechanical work during an emergency situation. Examples include stationary ICE used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility (or the normal power source, if the facility runs on its own power production) is interrupted, or stationary ICE used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc.
(2) The stationary ICE is operated under limited circumstances for situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition, as specified in § 60.4243(d).
(3) The stationary ICE operates as part of a financial arrangement with another entity in situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition only as allowed in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i).
Engine manufacturer
means the manufacturer of the engine. See the definition of “manufacturer” in this section.
Four-stroke engine
means any type of engine which completes the power cycle in two crankshaft revolutions, with intake and compression strokes in the first revolution and power and exhaust strokes in the second revolution.
Freshly manufactured engine
means an engine that has not been placed into service. An engine becomes freshly manufactured when it is originally produced.
Gasoline
means any fuel sold in any State for use in motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines, or nonroad or stationary engines, and commonly or commercially known or sold as gasoline.
Installed
means the engine is placed and secured at the location where it is intended to be operated.
Landfill gas
means a gaseous by-product of the land application of municipal refuse typically formed through the anaerobic decomposition of waste materials and composed principally of methane and CO
2
.
Lean burn engine
means any two-stroke or four-stroke spark ignited engine that does not meet the definition of a rich burn engine.
Liquefied petroleum gas
means any liquefied hydrocarbon gas obtained as a by-product in petroleum refining or natural gas production.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Clean Air Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures a stationary engine for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new stationary engine into commerce in the United States. This includes importers who import stationary engines for resale.
Maximum engine power
means maximum engine power as defined in 40 CFR 1048.801.
Model year
means the calendar year in which an engine is manufactured (see “date of manufacture”), except as follows:
(1) Model year means the annual new model production period of the engine manufacturer in which an engine is manufactured (see “date of manufacture”), if the annual new model production period is different than the calendar year and includes January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year.
(2) For an engine that is converted to a stationary engine after being placed into service as a nonroad or other non-stationary engine, model year means the calendar year or new model production period in which the engine was manufactured (see “date of manufacture”).
Natural gas
means a naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon gases found in geologic formations beneath the Earth's surface, of which the principal constituent is methane. Natural gas may be field or pipeline quality.
Other internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine, except combustion turbines, which is not a reciprocating internal combustion engine or rotary internal combustion engine.
Pipeline-quality natural gas
means a naturally occurring fluid mixture of hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, or propane) produced in geological formations beneath the Earth's surface that maintains a gaseous state at standard atmospheric temperature and pressure under ordinary conditions, and which is provided by a supplier through a pipeline. Pipeline-quality natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 950 and 1,100 British thermal units per standard cubic foot.
Rich burn engine
means any four-stroke spark ignited engine where the manufacturer's recommended operating air/fuel ratio divided by the stoichiometric air/fuel ratio at full load conditions is less than or equal to 1.1. Engines originally manufactured as rich burn engines, but modified prior to June 12, 2006, with passive emission control technology for NO
X
(such as pre-combustion chambers) will be considered lean burn engines. Also, existing engines where there are no manufacturer's recommendations regarding air/fuel ratio will be considered a rich burn engine if the excess oxygen content of the exhaust at full load conditions is less than or equal to 2 percent.
Rotary internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine which uses rotary motion to convert heat energy into mechanical work.
Spark ignition
means relating to either: a gasoline-fueled engine; or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation. Dual-fuel engines in which a liquid fuel (typically diesel fuel) is used for compression ignition and gaseous fuel (typically natural gas) is used as the primary fuel at an annual average ratio of less than 2 parts diesel fuel to 100 parts total fuel on an energy equivalent basis are spark ignition engines.
Stationary internal combustion engine
means any internal combustion engine, except combustion turbines, that converts heat energy into mechanical work and is not mobile. Stationary ICE differ from mobile ICE in that a stationary internal combustion engine is not a nonroad engine as defined at 40 CFR 1068.30 (excluding paragraph (2)(ii) of that definition), and is not used to propel a motor vehicle, aircraft, or a vehicle used solely for competition. Stationary ICE include reciprocating ICE, rotary ICE, and other ICE, except combustion turbines.
Stationary internal combustion engine test cell/stand
means an engine test cell/stand, as defined in 40 CFR part 63, subpart PPPPP, that tests stationary ICE.
Stoichiometric
means the theoretical air-to-fuel ratio required for complete combustion.
Subpart
means 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ.
Two-stroke engine
means a type of engine which completes the power cycle in single crankshaft revolution by combining the intake and compression operations into one stroke and the power and exhaust operations into a second stroke. This system requires auxiliary scavenging and inherently runs lean of stoichiometric.
Volatile organic compounds
means volatile organic compounds as defined in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Voluntary certification program
means an optional engine certification program that manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that do not use gasoline and are not rich burn engines that use LPG can choose to participate in to certify their engines to the emission standards in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable.
[73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59177, Oct. 8, 2008; 76 FR 37974, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 6698, Jan. 30, 2013; 86 FR 34363, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022]
Pt. 60, Subpt. JJJJ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart JJJJ of Part 60—NO
X

# , CO, and VOC Emission Standards for Stationary Non-Emergency SI Engines ≥100 HP (Except Gasoline and Rich Burn LPG), Stationary SI Landfill/Digester Gas Engines, and Stationary Emergency Engines

# 25 HP
Engine type
and fuel
Maximum
engine power
Manufacture
date
Emission standards
a
g/HP-hr
NO
X
CO
VOC
d
ppmvd at 15% O
2
NO
X
CO
VOC
d
Non-Emergency SI Natural Gas
b
and Non-Emergency SI Lean Burn LPG
b
100≤HP
500
7/1/2008
2.0
4.0
1.0
160
540
86
1/1/2011
1.0
2.0
0.7
82
270
60
Non-Emergency SI Lean Burn Natural Gas and LPG
500≤HP
1,350
1/1/2008
2.0
4.0
1.0
160
540
86
7/1/2010
1.0
2.0
0.7
82
270
60
Non-Emergency SI Natural Gas and Non-Emergency SI Lean Burn LPG (except lean burn 500≤HP
1,350)
HP≥500
7/1/2007
2.0
4.0
1.0
160
540
86
HP≥500
7/1/2010
1.0
2.0
0.7
82
270
60
Landfill/Digester Gas (except lean burn 500≤HP
1,350)
HP
500
7/1/2008
3.0
5.0
1.0
220
610
80
1/1/2011
2.0
5.0
1.0
150
610
80
HP≥500
7/1/2007
3.0
5.0
1.0
220
610
80
7/1/2010
2.0
5.0
1.0
150
610
80
Landfill/Digester Gas Lean Burn
500≤HP
1,350
1/1/2008
3.0
5.0
1.0
220
610
80
7/1/2010
2.0
5.0
1.0
150
610
80
Emergency
25
HP
130
1/1/2009
c
10
387
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
HP≥130
2.0
4.0
1.0
160
540
86
a
Owners and operators of stationary non-certified SI engines may choose to comply with the emission standards in units of either g/HP-hr or ppmvd at 15 percent O
2
.
b
Owners and operators of new or reconstructed non-emergency lean burn SI stationary engines with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 brake HP located at a major source that are meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart ZZZZ, Table 2a do not have to comply with the CO emission standards of Table 1 of this subpart.
c
The emission standards applicable to emergency engines between 25 HP and 130 HP are in terms of NO
X
+ HC.
d
For purposes of this subpart, when calculating emissions of volatile organic compounds, emissions of formaldehyde should not be included.
[76 FR 37975, June 28, 2011]
Pt. 60, Subpt. JJJJ, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart JJJJ of Part 60—Requirements for Performance Tests
As stated in § 60.4244, you must comply with the following requirements for performance tests within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load].
For each
Complying with the
requirement to
You must
Using
According to the following
requirements
1. Stationary SI internal combustion engine demonstrating compliance according to § 60.4244
a. Limit the concentration of NO
X
in the stationary SI internal combustion engine exhaust
i. Select the sampling port location and the number/location of traverse points at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine;
(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, if measuring flow rate
(a) Alternatively, for NO
X,
O
2
, and moisture measurement, ducts ≤6 inches in diameter may be sampled at a single point located at the duct centroid and ducts
6 and ≤12 inches in diameter may be sampled at 3 traverse points located at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3% of the measurement line (`3-point long line'). If the duct is
12 inches in diameter
and
the sampling port location meets the two and half-diameter criterion of Section 11.1.1 of Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, the duct may be sampled at `3-point long line'; otherwise, conduct the stratification testing and select sampling points according to Section 8.1.2 of Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.
ii. Determine the O
2
concentration of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location;
(2) Method 3, 3A, or 3B
b
of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 or ASTM Method D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005)
a d
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for NO
X
concentration.
iii. If necessary, determine the exhaust flowrate of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust;
(3) Method 2 or 2C of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 or Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7
(c) Measurements to determine the exhaust flowrate must be made (1) at the same time as the measurement for NO
X
concentration or, alternatively (2) according to the option in Section 11.1.2 of Method 1A of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-1, if applicable.
iv. If necessary, measure moisture content of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location; and
(4) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(d) Measurements to determine moisture must be made at the same time as the measurement for NO
X
concentration.
v. Measure NO
X
at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine; if using a control device, the sampling site must be located at the outlet of the control device
(5) Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, ASTM Method D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005),
a d
Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(e) Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
b. Limit the concentration of CO in the stationary SI internal combustion engine exhaust
i. Select the sampling port location and the number/location of traverse points at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine;
(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, if measuring flow rate
(a) Alternatively, for CO, O
2
, and moisture measurement, ducts ≤6 inches in diameter may be sampled at a single point located at the duct centroid and ducts
6 and ≤12 inches in diameter may be sampled at 3 traverse points located at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3% of the measurement line (`3-point long line'). If the duct is
12 inches in diameter
and
the sampling port location meets the two and half-diameter criterion of Section 11.1.1 of Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, the duct may be sampled at `3-point long line'; otherwise, conduct the stratification testing and select sampling points according to Section 8.1.2 of Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.
ii. Determine the O
2
concentration of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location;
(2) Method 3, 3A, or 3B
b
of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 or ASTM Method D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005)
a d
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for CO concentration.
iii. If necessary, determine the exhaust flowrate of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust;
(3) Method 2 or 2C of 40 CFR 60, appendix A-1 or Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7
(c) Measurements to determine the exhaust flowrate must be made (1) at the same time as the measurement for CO concentration or, alternatively (2) according to the option in Section 11.1.2 of Method 1A of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-1, if applicable.
iv. If necessary, measure moisture content of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location; and
(4) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(d) Measurements to determine moisture must be made at the same time as the measurement for CO concentration.
v. Measure CO at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine; if using a control device, the sampling site must be located at the outlet of the control device
(5) Method 10 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A4, ASTM Method D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005),
a d e
Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(e) Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
c. Limit the concentration of VOC in the stationary SI internal combustion engine exhaust
i. Select the sampling port location and the number/location of traverse points at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine;
(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, if measuring flow rate
(a) Alternatively, for VOC, O
2
, and moisture measurement, ducts ≤6 inches in diameter may be sampled at a single point located at the duct centroid and ducts
6 and ≤12 inches in diameter may be sampled at 3 traverse points located at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3% of the measurement line (`3-point long line'). If the duct is
12 inches in diameter
and
the sampling port location meets the two and half-diameter criterion of Section 11.1.1 of Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, the duct may be sampled at `3-point long line'; otherwise, conduct the stratification testing and select sampling points according to Section 8.1.2 of Method 7E of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.
ii. Determine the O
2
concentration of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location;
(2) Method 3, 3A, or 3B
b
of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 or ASTM Method D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005)
a d
(b) Measurements to determine O
2
concentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for VOC concentration.
iii. If necessary, determine the exhaust flowrate of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust;
(3) Method 2 or 2C of 40 CFR 60, appendix A-1 or Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7
(c) Measurements to determine the exhaust flowrate must be made (1) at the same time as the measurement for VOC concentration or, alternatively (2) according to the option in Section 11.1.2 of Method 1A of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-1, if applicable.
iv. If necessary, measure moisture content of the stationary internal combustion engine exhaust at the sampling port location; and
(4) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(d) Measurements to determine moisture must be made at the same time as the measurement for VOC concentration.
v. Measure VOC at the exhaust of the stationary internal combustion engine; if using a control device, the sampling site must be located at the outlet of the control device
(5) Methods 25A and 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-6 and A-7, Method 25A with the use of a hydrocarbon cutter as described in 40 CFR 1065.265, Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6,
c e
Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A,
e
or ASTM Method D6348-03
d e
(e) Results of this test consist of the average of the three 1-hour or longer runs.
a
Also, you may petition the Administrator for approval to use alternative methods for portable analyzer.
b
You may use ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses, for measuring the O
2
content of the exhaust gas as an alternative to EPA Method 3B. AMSE PTC 19.10-1981 incorporated by reference, see 40 CFR 60.17
c
You may use EPA Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, provided that you conduct an adequate pre-survey test prior to the emissions test, such as the one described in OTM 11 on EPA's website (
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc/prelim/otm11.pdf
).
d
Incorporated by reference; see 40 CFR 60.17.
e
You must meet the requirements in § 60.4245(d).
[85 FR 63408, Oct. 7, 2020]
Pt. 60, Subpt. JJJJ, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart JJJJ of Part 60—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart JJJJ
[As stated in § 60.4246, you must comply with the following applicable General Provisions]
General provisions citation
Subject of citation
Applies to subpart
Explanation
§ 60.1
General applicability of the General Provisions
Yes
§ 60.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional terms defined in § 60.4248.
§ 60.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes
§ 60.4
Address
Yes
§ 60.5
Determination of construction or modification
Yes
§ 60.6
Review of plans
Yes
§ 60.7
Notification and Recordkeeping
Yes
Except that § 60.7 only applies as specified in § 60.4245.
§ 60.8
Performance tests
Yes
Except that § 60.8 only applies to owners and operators who are subject to performance testing in subpart JJJJ.
§ 60.9
Availability of information
Yes
§ 60.10
State Authority
Yes
§ 60.11
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
Yes
Requirements are specified in subpart JJJJ.
§ 60.12
Circumvention
Yes
§ 60.13
Monitoring requirements
No
§ 60.14
Modification
Yes
§ 60.15
Reconstruction
Yes
§ 60.16
Priority list
Yes
§ 60.17
Incorporations by reference
Yes
§ 60.18
General control device requirements
No
§ 60.19
General notification and reporting requirements
Yes
Pt. 60, Subpt. JJJJ, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart JJJJ of Part 60—Applicability of Mobile Source Provisions for Manufacturers Participating in the Voluntary Certification Program and Certifying Stationary SI ICE to Emission Standards in Table 1 of Subpart JJJJ
[As stated in § 60.4247, you must comply with the following applicable mobile source provisions if you are a manufacturer participating in the voluntary certification program and certifying stationary SI ICE to emission standards in Table 1 of subpart JJJJ]
Mobile source provisions citation
Subject of citation
Applies to subpart
Explanation
1048 subpart A
Overview and Applicability
Yes
1048 subpart B
Emission Standards and Related Requirements
Yes
Except for the specific sections below.
1048.101
Exhaust Emission Standards
No
1048.105
Evaporative Emission Standards
No
1048.110
Diagnosing Malfunctions
No
1048.140
Certifying Blue Sky Series Engines
No
1048.145
Interim Provisions
No
1048 subpart C
Certifying Engine Families
Yes
Except for the specific sections below.
1048.205(b)
AECD reporting
Yes
1048.205(c)
OBD Requirements
No
1048.205(n)
Deterioration Factors
Yes
Except as indicated in 60.4247(c).
1048.205(p)(1)
Deterioration Factor Discussion
Yes
1048.205(p)(2)
Liquid Fuels as they require
No
1048.240(b)(c)(d)
Deterioration Factors
Yes
1048 subpart D
Testing Production-Line Engines
Yes
1048 subpart E
Testing In-Use Engines
No
1048 subpart F
Test Procedures
Yes
1065.5(a)(4)
Raw sampling (refers reader back to the specific emissions regulation for guidance)
Yes
1048 subpart G
Compliance Provisions
Yes
1048 subpart H
Reserved
1048 subpart I
Definitions and Other Reference Information
Yes
1048 appendix I and II
Yes
1065 (all subparts)
Engine Testing Procedures
Yes
Except for the specific section below.
1065.715
Test Fuel Specifications for Natural Gas
No
1068 (all subparts)
General Compliance Provisions for Nonroad Programs
Yes
Except for the specific sections below.
1068.245
Hardship Provisions for Unusual Circumstances
No
1068.250
Hardship Provisions for Small-Volume Manufacturers
No
1068.255
Hardship Provisions for Equipment Manufacturers and Secondary Engine Manufacturers
No

# Subpart KKKK—Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion Turbines

# Source:
71 FR 38497, July 6, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction
§ 60.4300
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes emission standards and compliance schedules for the control of emissions from stationary combustion turbines that commenced construction, modification or reconstruction after February 18, 2005.

# Applicability
§ 60.4305
Does this subpart apply to my stationary combustion turbine?
(a) If you are the owner or operator of a stationary combustion turbine with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules (10 MMBtu) per hour, based on the higher heating value of the fuel, which commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after February 18, 2005, your turbine is subject to this subpart. Only heat input to the combustion turbine should be included when determining whether or not this subpart is applicable to your turbine. Any additional heat input to associated heat recovery steam generators (HRSG) or duct burners should not be included when determining your peak heat input. However, this subpart does apply to emissions from any associated HRSG and duct burners.
(b) Stationary combustion turbines regulated under this subpart are exempt from the requirements of subpart GG of this part. Heat recovery steam generators and duct burners regulated under this subpart are exempted from the requirements of subparts Da, Db, and Dc of this part.
§ 60.4310
What types of operations are exempt from these standards of performance?
(a) Emergency combustion turbines, as defined in § 60.4420(i), are exempt from the nitrogen oxides (NO
X
) emission limits in § 60.4320.
(b) Stationary combustion turbines engaged by manufacturers in research and development of equipment for both combustion turbine emission control techniques and combustion turbine efficiency improvements are exempt from the NO
X
emission limits in
§ 60.4320 on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Stationary combustion turbines at integrated gasification combined cycle electric utility steam generating units that are subject to subpart Da of this part are exempt from this subpart.
(d) Combustion turbine test cells/stands are exempt from this subpart.

# Emission Limits
§ 60.4315
What pollutants are regulated by this subpart?
The pollutants regulated by this subpart are nitrogen oxide (NO
X
) and sulfur dioxide (SO
2
).
§ 60.4320
What emission limits must I meet for nitrogen oxides (NO
X
)?
(a) You must meet the emission limits for NO
X
specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) If you have two or more turbines that are connected to a single generator, each turbine must meet the emission limits for NO
X
.
§ 60.4325
What emission limits must I meet for NO
X
if my turbine burns both natural gas and distillate oil (or some other combination of fuels)?
You must meet the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart. If your total heat input is greater than or equal to 50 percent natural gas, you must meet the corresponding limit for a natural gas-fired turbine when you are burning that fuel. Similarly, when your total heat input is greater than 50 percent distillate oil and fuels other than natural gas, you must meet the corresponding limit for distillate oil and fuels other than natural gas for the duration of the time that you burn that particular fuel.
§ 60.4330
What emission limits must I meet for sulfur dioxide (SO
2
?
(a) If your turbine is located in a continental area, you must comply with either paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section. If your turbine is located in Alaska, you do not have to comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section until January 1, 2008.
(1) You must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the subject stationary combustion turbine any gases which contain SO
2
in excess of 110 nanograms per Joule (ng/J) (0.90 pounds per megawatt-hour (lb/MWh)) gross output;
(2) You must not burn in the subject stationary combustion turbine any fuel which contains total potential sulfur emissions in excess of 26 ng SO
2
/J (0.060 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input. If your turbine simultaneously fires multiple fuels, each fuel must meet this requirement; or
(3) For each stationary combustion turbine burning at least 50 percent biogas on a calendar month basis, as determined based on total heat input, you must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected source any gases that contain SO
2
in excess of 65 ng SO
2
/J (0.15 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input.
(b) If your turbine is located in a noncontinental area or a continental area that the Administrator determines does not have access to natural gas and that the removal of sulfur compounds would cause more environmental harm than benefit, you must comply with one or the other of the following conditions:
(1) You must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the subject stationary combustion turbine any gases which contain SO
2
in excess of 780 ng/J (6.2 lb/MWh) gross output, or
(2) You must not burn in the subject stationary combustion turbine any fuel which contains total sulfur with potential sulfur emissions in excess of 180 ng SO
2
/J (0.42 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input. If your turbine simultaneously fires multiple fuels, each fuel must meet this requirement.
[71 FR 38497, July 6, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 11861, Mar. 20, 2009]

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 60.4333
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) You must operate and maintain your stationary combustion turbine, air pollution control equipment, and monitoring equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions
at all times including during startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
(b) When an affected unit with heat recovery utilizes a common steam header with one or more combustion turbines, the owner or operator shall either:
(1) Determine compliance with the applicable NO
X
emissions limits by measuring the emissions combined with the emissions from the other unit(s) utilizing the common heat recovery unit; or
(2) Develop, demonstrate, and provide information satisfactory to the Administrator on methods for apportioning the combined gross energy output from the heat recovery unit for each of the affected combustion turbines. The Administrator may approve such demonstrated substitute methods for apportioning the combined gross energy output measured at the steam turbine whenever the demonstration ensures accurate estimation of emissions related under this part.

# Monitoring
§ 60.4335
How do I demonstrate compliance for NO
X
if I use water or steam injection?
(a) If you are using water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions, you must install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the fuel consumption and the ratio of water or steam to fuel being fired in the turbine when burning a fuel that requires water or steam injection for compliance.
(b) Alternatively, you may use continuous emission monitoring, as follows:
(1) Install, certify, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) consisting of a NO
X
monitor and a diluent gas (oxygen (O
2
) or carbon dioxide (CO
2
)) monitor, to determine the hourly NO
X
emission rate in parts per million (ppm) or pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu); and
(2) For units complying with the output-based standard, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a fuel flow meter (or flow meters) to continuously measure the heat input to the affected unit; and
(3) For units complying with the output-based standard, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a watt meter (or meters) to continuously measure the gross electrical output of the unit in megawatt-hours; and
(4) For combined heat and power units complying with the output-based standard, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate meters for useful recovered energy flow rate, temperature, and pressure, to continuously measure the total thermal energy output in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h).
§ 60.4340
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance for NO
X
if I do not use water or steam injection?
(a) If you are not using water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions, you must perform annual performance tests in accordance with § 60.4400 to demonstrate continuous compliance. If the NO
X
emission result from the performance test is less than or equal to 75 percent of the NO
X
emission limit for the turbine, you may reduce the frequency of subsequent performance tests to once every 2 years (no more than 26 calendar months following the previous performance test). If the results of any subsequent performance test exceed 75 percent of the NO
X
emission limit for the turbine, you must resume annual performance tests.
(b) As an alternative, you may install, calibrate, maintain and operate one of the following continuous monitoring systems:
(1) Continuous emission monitoring as described in §§ 60.4335(b) and 60.4345, or
(2) Continuous parameter monitoring as follows:
(i) For a diffusion flame turbine without add-on selective catalytic reduction (SCR) controls, you must define parameters indicative of the unit's NO
X
formation characteristics, and you must monitor these parameters continuously.
(ii) For any lean premix stationary combustion turbine, you must continuously monitor the appropriate parameters to determine whether the unit is operating in low-NO
X
mode.
(iii) For any turbine that uses SCR to reduce NO
X
emissions, you must continuously monitor appropriate parameters to verify the proper operation of the emission controls.
(iv) For affected units that are also regulated under part 75 of this chapter, with state approval you can monitor the NO
X
emission rate using the methodology in appendix E to part 75 of this chapter, or the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19, the requirements of this paragraph (b) may be met by performing the parametric monitoring described in section 2.3 of part 75 appendix E or in § 75.19(c)(1)(iv)(H).
§ 60.4345
What are the requirements for the continuous emission monitoring system equipment, if I choose to use this option?
If the option to use a NO
X
CEMS is chosen:
(a) Each NO
X
diluent CEMS must be installed and certified according to Performance Specification 2 (PS 2) in appendix B to this part, except the 7-day calibration drift is based on unit operating days, not calendar days. With state approval, Procedure 1 in appendix F to this part is not required. Alternatively, a NO
X
diluent CEMS that is installed and certified according to appendix A of part 75 of this chapter is acceptable for use under this subpart. The relative accuracy test audit (RATA) of the CEMS shall be performed on a lb/MMBtu basis.
(b) As specified in § 60.13(e)(2), during each full unit operating hour, both the NO
X
monitor and the diluent monitor must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each 15-minute quadrant of the hour, to validate the hour. For partial unit operating hours, at least one valid data point must be obtained with each monitor for each quadrant of the hour in which the unit operates. For unit operating hours in which required quality assurance and maintenance activities are performed on the CEMS, a minimum of two valid data points (one in each of two quadrants) are required for each monitor to validate the NO
X
emission rate for the hour.
(c) Each fuel flowmeter shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to the manufacturer's instructions. Alternatively, with state approval, fuel flowmeters that meet the installation, certification, and quality assurance requirements of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter are acceptable for use under this subpart.
(d) Each watt meter, steam flow meter, and each pressure or temperature measurement device shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's instructions.
(e) The owner or operator shall develop and keep on-site a quality assurance (QA) plan for all of the continuous monitoring equipment described in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section. For the CEMS and fuel flow meters, the owner or operator may, with state approval, satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by implementing the QA program and plan described in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
§ 60.4350
How do I use data from the continuous emission monitoring equipment to identify excess emissions?
For purposes of identifying excess emissions:
(a) All CEMS data must be reduced to hourly averages as specified in § 60.13(h).
(b) For each unit operating hour in which a valid hourly average, as described in § 60.4345(b), is obtained for both NO
X
and diluent monitors, the data acquisition and handling system must calculate and record the hourly NO
X
emission rate in units of ppm or lb/MMBtu, using the appropriate equation from method 19 in appendix A of this part. For any hour in which the hourly average O
2
concentration exceeds 19.0 percent O
2
(or the hourly average CO
2
concentration is less than 1.0 percent CO
2
), a diluent cap value of 19.0 percent O
2
or 1.0 percent CO
2
(as applicable) may be used in the emission calculations.
(c) Correction of measured NO
X
concentrations to 15 percent O
2
is not allowed.
(d) If you have installed and certified a NO
X
diluent CEMS to meet the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, states can approve that only quality
assured data from the CEMS shall be used to identify excess emissions under this subpart. Periods where the missing data substitution procedures in subpart D of part 75 are applied are to be reported as monitor downtime in the excess emissions and monitoring performance report required under § 60.7(c).
(e) All required fuel flow rate, steam flow rate, temperature, pressure, and megawatt data must be reduced to hourly averages.
(f) Calculate the hourly average NO
X
emission rates, in units of the emission standards under § 60.4320, using either ppm for units complying with the concentration limit or the following equation for units complying with the output based standard:
(1) For simple-cycle operation:
ER06JY06.000
Where:
E = hourly NO
X
emission rate, in lb/MWh,
(NO
X
)
h
= hourly NO
X
emission rate, in lb/MMBtu,
(HI)
h
= hourly heat input rate to the unit, in MMBtu/h, measured using the fuel flowmeter(s),
e.g.
, calculated using Equation D-15a in appendix D to part 75 of this chapter, and
P = gross energy output of the combustion turbine in MW.
(2) For combined-cycle and combined heat and power complying with the output-based standard, use Equation 1 of this subpart, except that the gross energy output is calculated as the sum of the total electrical and mechanical energy generated by the combustion turbine, the additional electrical or mechanical energy (if any) generated by the steam turbine following the heat recovery steam generator, and 100 percent of the total useful thermal energy output that is not used to generate additional electricity or mechanical output, expressed in equivalent MW, as in the following equations:
ER06JY06.001
Where:
P = gross energy output of the stationary combustion turbine system in MW.
(Pe)
t
= electrical or mechanical energy output of the combustion turbine in MW,
(Pe)
c
= electrical or mechanical energy output (if any) of the steam turbine in MW, and
ER06JY06.002
Where:
Ps = useful thermal energy of the steam, measured relative to ISO conditions, not used to generate additional electric or mechanical output, in MW,
Q = measured steam flow rate in lb/h,
H = enthalpy of the steam at measured temperature and pressure relative to ISO conditions, in Btu/lb, and 3.413 × 10
6
= conversion from Btu/h to MW.
Po = other useful heat recovery, measured relative to ISO conditions, not used for steam generation or performance enhancement of the combustion turbine.
(3) For mechanical drive applications complying with the output-based standard, use the following equation:
ER06JY06.003
Where:
E = NO
X
emission rate in lb/MWh,
(NO
X
)
m
= NO
X
emission rate in lb/h,
BL = manufacturer's base load rating of turbine, in MW, and
AL = actual load as a percentage of the base load.
(g) For simple cycle units without heat recovery, use the calculated hourly average emission rates from paragraph (f) of this section to assess excess emissions on a 4-hour rolling average basis, as described in § 60.4380(b)(1).
(h) For combined cycle and combined heat and power units with heat recovery, use the calculated hourly average emission rates from paragraph (f) of this section to assess excess emissions on a 30 unit operating day rolling average basis, as described in § 60.4380(b)(1).
§ 60.4355
How do I establish and document a proper parameter monitoring plan?
(a) The steam or water to fuel ratio or other parameters that are continuously monitored as described in §§ 60.4335 and 60.4340 must be monitored during the performance test required under § 60.8, to establish acceptable values and ranges. You may supplement the performance test data with engineering analyses, design specifications,
manufacturer's recommendations and other relevant information to define the acceptable parametric ranges more precisely. You must develop and keep on-site a parameter monitoring plan which explains the procedures used to document proper operation of the NO
X
emission controls. The plan must:
(1) Include the indicators to be monitored and show there is a significant relationship to emissions and proper operation of the NO
X
emission controls,
(2) Pick ranges (or designated conditions) of the indicators, or describe the process by which such range (or designated condition) will be established,
(3) Explain the process you will use to make certain that you obtain data that are representative of the emissions or parameters being monitored (such as detector location, installation specification if applicable),
(4) Describe quality assurance and control practices that are adequate to ensure the continuing validity of the data,
(5) Describe the frequency of monitoring and the data collection procedures which you will use (e.g., you are using a computerized data acquisition over a number of discrete data points with the average (or maximum value) being used for purposes of determining whether an exceedance has occurred), and
(6) Submit justification for the proposed elements of the monitoring. If a proposed performance specification differs from manufacturer recommendation, you must explain the reasons for the differences. You must submit the data supporting the justification, but you may refer to generally available sources of information used to support the justification. You may rely on engineering assessments and other data, provided you demonstrate factors which assure compliance or explain why performance testing is unnecessary to establish indicator ranges. When establishing indicator ranges, you may choose to simplify the process by treating the parameters as if they were correlated. Using this assumption, testing can be divided into two cases:
(i) All indicators are significant only on one end of range (e.g., for a thermal incinerator controlling volatile organic compounds (VOC) it is only important to insure a minimum temperature, not a maximum). In this case, you may conduct your study so that each parameter is at the significant limit of its range while you conduct your emissions testing. If the emissions tests show that the source is in compliance at the significant limit of each parameter, then as long as each parameter is within its limit, you are presumed to be in compliance.
(ii) Some or all indicators are significant on both ends of the range. In this case, you may conduct your study so that each parameter that is significant at both ends of its range assumes its extreme values in all possible combinations of the extreme values (either single or double) of all of the other parameters. For example, if there were only two parameters, A and B, and A had a range of values while B had only a minimum value, the combinations would be A high with B minimum and A low with B minimum. If both A and B had a range, the combinations would be A high and B high, A low and B low, A high and B low, A low and B high. For the case of four parameters all having a range, there are 16 possible combinations.
(b) For affected units that are also subject to part 75 of this chapter and that have state approval to use the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19 or the NO
X
emission measurement methodology in appendix E to part 75, you may meet the requirements of this paragraph by developing and keeping on-site (or at a central location for unmanned facilities) a QA plan, as described in § 75.19(e)(5) or in section 2.3 of appendix E to part 75 of this chapter and section 1.3.6 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
§ 60.4360
How do I determine the total sulfur content of the turbine's combustion fuel?
You must monitor the total sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the turbine, except as provided in § 60.4365. The sulfur content of the fuel must be determined using total sulfur methods described in § 60.4415. Alternatively, if the total sulfur content of the gaseous
fuel during the most recent performance test was less than half the applicable limit, ASTM D4084, D4810, D5504, or D6228, or Gas Processors Association Standard 2377 (all of which are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), which measure the major sulfur compounds, may be used.
§ 60.4365
How can I be exempted from monitoring the total sulfur content of the fuel?
You may elect not to monitor the total sulfur content of the fuel combusted in the turbine, if the fuel is demonstrated not to exceed potential sulfur emissions of 26 ng SO
2
/J (0.060 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for units located in continental areas and 180 ng SO
2
/J (0.42 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for units located in noncontinental areas or a continental area that the Administrator determines does not have access to natural gas and that the removal of sulfur compounds would cause more environmental harm than benefit. You must use one of the following sources of information to make the required demonstration:
(a) The fuel quality characteristics in a current, valid purchase contract, tariff sheet or transportation contract for the fuel, specifying that the maximum total sulfur content for oil use in continental areas is 0.05 weight percent (500 ppmw) or less and 0.4 weight percent (4,000 ppmw) or less for noncontinental areas, the total sulfur content for natural gas use in continental areas is 20 grains of sulfur or less per 100 standard cubic feet and 140 grains of sulfur or less per 100 standard cubic feet for noncontinental areas, has potential sulfur emissions of less than less than 26 ng SO
2
/J (0.060 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for continental areas and has potential sulfur emissions of less than less than 180 ng SO
2
/J (0.42 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for noncontinental areas; or
(b) Representative fuel sampling data which show that the sulfur content of the fuel does not exceed 26 ng SO
2
/J (0.060 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for continental areas or 180 ng SO
2
/J (0.42 lb SO
2
/MMBtu) heat input for noncontinental areas. At a minimum, the amount of fuel sampling data specified in section 2.3.1.4 or 2.3.2.4 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter is required.
§ 60.4370
How often must I determine the sulfur content of the fuel?
The frequency of determining the sulfur content of the fuel must be as follows:
(a)
Fuel oil.
For fuel oil, use one of the total sulfur sampling options and the associated sampling frequency described in sections 2.2.3, 2.2.4.1, 2.2.4.2, and 2.2.4.3 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter (
i.e.
, flow proportional sampling, daily sampling, sampling from the unit's storage tank after each addition of fuel to the tank, or sampling each delivery prior to combining it with fuel oil already in the intended storage tank).
(b)
Gaseous fuel.
If you elect not to demonstrate sulfur content using options in § 60.4365, and the fuel is supplied without intermediate bulk storage, the sulfur content value of the gaseous fuel must be determined and recorded once per unit operating day.
(c)
Custom schedules.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, operators or fuel vendors may develop custom schedules for determination of the total sulfur content of gaseous fuels, based on the design and operation of the affected facility and the characteristics of the fuel supply. Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, custom schedules shall be substantiated with data and shall be approved by the Administrator before they can be used to comply with the standard in § 60.4330.
(1) The two custom sulfur monitoring schedules set forth in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) and in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are acceptable, without prior Administrative approval:
(i) The owner or operator shall obtain daily total sulfur content measurements for 30 consecutive unit operating days, using the applicable methods specified in this subpart. Based on the results of the 30 daily samples, the required frequency for subsequent monitoring of the fuel's total sulfur content shall be as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(ii) If none of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content exceeds half the applicable standard, subsequent sulfur content monitoring
may be performed at 12-month intervals. If any of the samples taken at 12-month intervals has a total sulfur content greater than half but less than the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. If any measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
(iii) If at least one of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content is greater than half but less than the applicable limit, but none exceeds the applicable limit, then:
(A) Collect and analyze a sample every 30 days for 3 months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(B) Begin monitoring at 6-month intervals for 12 months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.
(C) Begin monitoring at 12-month intervals. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, continue to monitor at this frequency.
(iv) If a sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, immediately begin daily monitoring according to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Daily monitoring shall continue until 30 consecutive daily samples, each having a sulfur content no greater than the applicable limit, are obtained. At that point, the applicable procedures of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section shall be followed.
(2) The owner or operator may use the data collected from the 720-hour sulfur sampling demonstration described in section 2.3.6 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter to determine a custom sulfur sampling schedule, as follows:
(i) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from the 720 hourly samples does not exceed 20 grains/100 scf, no additional monitoring of the sulfur content of the gas is required, for the purposes of this subpart.
(ii) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 20 grains/100 scf, but none of the sulfur content values (when converted to weight percent sulfur) exceeds half the applicable limit, then the minimum required sampling frequency shall be one sample at 12 month intervals.
(iii) If any sample result exceeds half the applicable limit, but none exceeds the applicable limit, follow the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(iv) If the sulfur content of any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds the applicable limit, follow the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Reporting
§ 60.4375
What reports must I submit?
(a) For each affected unit required to continuously monitor parameters or emissions, or to periodically determine the fuel sulfur content under this subpart, you must submit reports of excess emissions and monitor downtime, in accordance with § 60.7(c). Excess emissions must be reported for all periods of unit operation, including start-up, shutdown, and malfunction.
(b) For each affected unit that performs annual performance tests in accordance with § 60.4340(a), you must submit a written report of the results of each performance test before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test.
§ 60.4380
How are excess emissions and monitor downtime defined for NO
X
?
For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions and monitor downtime that must be reported are defined as follows:
(a) For turbines using water or steam to fuel ratio monitoring:
(1) An excess emission is any unit operating hour for which the 4-hour rolling average steam or water to fuel ratio, as measured by the continuous monitoring system, falls below the acceptable steam or water to fuel ratio needed to demonstrate compliance with § 60.4320, as established during the performance test required in § 60.8. Any
unit operating hour in which no water or steam is injected into the turbine when a fuel is being burned that requires water or steam injection for NO
X
control will also be considered an excess emission.
(2) A period of monitor downtime is any unit operating hour in which water or steam is injected into the turbine, but the essential parametric data needed to determine the steam or water to fuel ratio are unavailable or invalid.
(3) Each report must include the average steam or water to fuel ratio, average fuel consumption, and the combustion turbine load during each excess emission.
(b) For turbines using continuous emission monitoring, as described in §§ 60.4335(b) and 60.4345:
(1) An excess emissions is any unit operating period in which the 4-hour or 30-day rolling average NO
X
emission rate exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320. For the purposes of this subpart, a “4-hour rolling average NO
X
emission rate” is the arithmetic average of the average NO
X
emission rate in ppm or ng/J (lb/MWh) measured by the continuous emission monitoring equipment for a given hour and the three unit operating hour average NO
X
emission rates immediately preceding that unit operating hour. Calculate the rolling average if a valid NO
X
emission rate is obtained for at least 3 of the 4 hours. For the purposes of this subpart, a “30-day rolling average NO
X
emission rate” is the arithmetic average of all hourly NO
X
emission data in ppm or ng/J (lb/MWh) measured by the continuous emission monitoring equipment for a given day and the twenty-nine unit operating days immediately preceding that unit operating day. A new 30-day average is calculated each unit operating day as the average of all hourly NO
X
emissions rates for the preceding 30 unit operating days if a valid NO
X
emission rate is obtained for at least 75 percent of all operating hours.
(2) A period of monitor downtime is any unit operating hour in which the data for any of the following parameters are either missing or invalid: NO
X
concentration, CO
2 or O
2
concentration, fuel flow rate, steam flow rate, steam temperature, steam pressure, or megawatts. The steam flow rate, steam temperature, and steam pressure are only required if you will use this information for compliance purposes.
(3) For operating periods during which multiple emissions standards apply, the applicable standard is the average of the applicable standards during each hour. For hours with multiple emissions standards, the applicable limit for that hour is determined based on the condition that corresponded to the highest emissions standard.
(c) For turbines required to monitor combustion parameters or parameters that document proper operation of the NO
X
emission controls:
(1) An excess emission is a 4-hour rolling unit operating hour average in which any monitored parameter does not achieve the target value or is outside the acceptable range defined in the parameter monitoring plan for the unit.
(2) A period of monitor downtime is a unit operating hour in which any of the required parametric data are either not recorded or are invalid.
§ 60.4385
How are excess emissions and monitoring downtime defined for SO
2
?
If you choose the option to monitor the sulfur content of the fuel, excess emissions and monitoring downtime are defined as follows:
(a) For samples of gaseous fuel and for oil samples obtained using daily sampling, flow proportional sampling, or sampling from the unit's storage tank, an excess emission occurs each unit operating hour included in the period beginning on the date and hour of any sample for which the sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the combustion turbine exceeds the applicable limit and ending on the date and hour that a subsequent sample is taken that demonstrates compliance with the sulfur limit.
(b) If the option to sample each delivery of fuel oil has been selected, you must immediately switch to one of the other oil sampling options (i.e., daily sampling, flow proportional sampling, or sampling from the unit's storage tank) if the sulfur content of a delivery exceeds 0.05 weight percent. You must
continue to use one of the other sampling options until all of the oil from the delivery has been combusted, and you must evaluate excess emissions according to paragraph (a) of this section. When all of the fuel from the delivery has been burned, you may resume using the as-delivered sampling option.
(c) A period of monitor downtime begins when a required sample is not taken by its due date. A period of monitor downtime also begins on the date and hour of a required sample, if invalid results are obtained. The period of monitor downtime ends on the date and hour of the next valid sample.
§ 60.4390
What are my reporting requirements if I operate an emergency combustion turbine or a research and development turbine?
(a) If you operate an emergency combustion turbine, you are exempt from the NO
X
limit and must submit an initial report to the Administrator stating your case.
(b) Combustion turbines engaged by manufacturers in research and development of equipment for both combustion turbine emission control techniques and combustion turbine efficiency improvements may be exempted from the NO
X
limit on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator. You must petition for the exemption.
§ 60.4395
When must I submit my reports?
All reports required under § 60.7(c) must be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each 6-month period.

# Performance Tests
§ 60.4400
How do I conduct the initial and subsequent performance tests, regarding NO
X
?
(a) You must conduct an initial performance test, as required in § 60.8. Subsequent NO
X
performance tests shall be conducted on an annual basis (no more than 14 calendar months following the previous performance test).
(1) There are two general methodologies that you may use to conduct the performance tests. For each test run:
(i) Measure the NO
X
concentration (in parts per million (ppm)), using EPA Method 7E or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part. For units complying with the output based standard, concurrently measure the stack gas flow rate, using EPA Methods 1 and 2 in appendix A of this part, and measure and record the electrical and thermal output from the unit. Then, use the following equation to calculate the NO
X
emission rate:
ER06JY06.004
Where:
E = NO
X
emission rate, in lb/MWh
1.194 × 10
−7
= conversion constant, in lb/dscf-ppm
(NO
X
)
c
= average NO
X
concentration for the run, in ppm
Q
std
= stack gas volumetric flow rate, in dscf/hr
P = gross electrical and mechanical energy output of the combustion turbine, in MW (for simple-cycle operation), for combined-cycle operation, the sum of all electrical and mechanical output from the combustion and steam turbines, or, for combined heat and power operation, the sum of all electrical and mechanical output from the combustion and steam turbines plus all useful recovered thermal output not used for additional electric or mechanical generation, in MW, calculated according to § 60.4350(f)(2); or
(ii) Measure the NO
X
and diluent gas concentrations, using either EPA Methods 7E and 3A, or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part. Concurrently measure the heat input to the unit, using a fuel flowmeter (or flowmeters), and measure the electrical and thermal output of the unit. Use EPA Method 19 in appendix A of this part to calculate the NO
X
emission rate in lb/MMBtu. Then, use Equations 1
and, if necessary, 2 and 3 in § 60.4350(f) to calculate the NO
X
emission rate in lb/MWh.
(2) Sampling traverse points for NO
X
and (if applicable) diluent gas are to be selected following EPA Method 20 or EPA Method 1 (non-particulate procedures), and sampled for equal time intervals. The sampling must be performed with a traversing single-hole probe, or, if feasible, with a stationary multi-hole probe that samples each of the points sequentially. Alternatively, a multi-hole probe designed and documented to sample equal volumes from each hole may be used to sample simultaneously at the required points.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you may test at fewer points than are specified in EPA Method 1 or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part if the following conditions are met:
(i) You may perform a stratification test for NO
X
and diluent pursuant to
(A) [Reserved], or
(B) The procedures specified in section 6.5.6.1(a) through (e) of appendix A of part 75 of this chapter.
(ii) Once the stratification sampling is completed, you may use the following alternative sample point selection criteria for the performance test:
(A) If each of the individual traverse point NO
X
concentrations is within ±10 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than ±5ppm or ±0.5 percent CO
2
(or O
2
) from the mean for all traverse points, then you may use three points (located either 16.7, 50.0 and 83.3 percent of the way across the stack or duct, or, for circular stacks or ducts greater than 2.4 meters (7.8 feet) in diameter, at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the wall). The three points must be located along the measurement line that exhibited the highest average NO
X
concentration during the stratification test; or
(B) For turbines with a NO
X
standard greater than 15 ppm @ 15% O
2
, you may sample at a single point, located at least 1 meter from the stack wall or at the stack centroid if each of the individual traverse point NO
X
concentrations is within ±5 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than ±3ppm or ±0.3 percent CO
2
(or O
2
) from the mean for all traverse points; or
(C) For turbines with a NO
X
standard less than or equal to 15 ppm @ 15% O
2
, you may sample at a single point, located at least 1 meter from the stack wall or at the stack centroid if each of the individual traverse point NO
X
concentrations is within ±2.5 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than ±1ppm or ±0.15 percent CO
2
(or O
2
) from the mean for all traverse points.
(b) The performance test must be done at any load condition within plus or minus 25 percent of 100 percent of peak load. You may perform testing at the highest achievable load point, if at least 75 percent of peak load cannot be achieved in practice. You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. The minimum time per run is 20 minutes.
(1) If the stationary combustion turbine combusts both oil and gas as primary or backup fuels, separate performance testing is required for each fuel.
(2) For a combined cycle and CHP turbine systems with supplemental heat (duct burner), you must measure the total NO
X
emissions after the duct burner rather than directly after the turbine. The duct burner must be in operation during the performance test.
(3) If water or steam injection is used to control NO
X
with no additional post-combustion NO
X
control and you choose to monitor the steam or water to fuel ratio in accordance with § 60.4335, then that monitoring system must be operated concurrently with each EPA Method 20 or EPA Method 7E run and must be used to determine the fuel consumption and the steam or water to fuel ratio necessary to comply with the applicable § 60.4320 NO
X
emission limit.
(4) Compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320 must be demonstrated at each tested load level. Compliance is achieved if the three-run arithmetic average NO
X
emission rate at each tested level meets the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320.
(5) If you elect to install a CEMS, the performance evaluation of the CEMS may either be conducted separately or (as described in § 60.4405) as part of the initial performance test of the affected unit.
(6) The ambient temperature must be greater than 0 °F during the performance test.
§ 60.4405
How do I perform the initial performance test if I have chosen to install a NO
X
-diluent CEMS?
If you elect to install and certify a NO
X
-diluent CEMS under § 60.4345, then the initial performance test required under § 60.8 may be performed in the following alternative manner:
(a) Perform a minimum of nine RATA reference method runs, with a minimum time per run of 21 minutes, at a single load level, within plus or minus 25 percent of 100 percent of peak load. The ambient temperature must be greater than 0 °F during the RATA runs.
(b) For each RATA run, concurrently measure the heat input to the unit using a fuel flow meter (or flow meters) and measure the electrical and thermal output from the unit.
(c) Use the test data both to demonstrate compliance with the applicable NO
X
emission limit under § 60.4320 and to provide the required reference method data for the RATA of the CEMS described under § 60.4335.
(d) Compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320 is achieved if the arithmetic average of all of the NO
X
emission rates for the RATA runs, expressed in units of ppm or lb/MWh, does not exceed the emission limit.
§ 60.4410
How do I establish a valid parameter range if I have chosen to continuously monitor parameters?
If you have chosen to monitor combustion parameters or parameters indicative of proper operation of NO
X
emission controls in accordance with § 60.4340, the appropriate parameters must be continuously monitored and recorded during each run of the initial performance test, to establish acceptable operating ranges, for purposes of the parameter monitoring plan for the affected unit, as specified in § 60.4355.
§ 60.4415
How do I conduct the initial and subsequent performance tests for sulfur?
(a) You must conduct an initial performance test, as required in § 60.8. Subsequent SO
2
performance tests shall be conducted on an annual basis (no more than 14 calendar months following the previous performance test). There are four methodologies that you may use to conduct the performance tests.
(1) The use of a current, valid purchase contract, tariff sheet, or transportation contract for the fuel specifying the maximum total sulfur content of all fuels combusted in the affected facility. Alternately, the fuel sampling data specified in section 2.3.1.4 or 2.3.2.4 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter may be used.
(2) Periodically determine the sulfur content of the fuel combusted in the turbine, a representative fuel sample may be collected either by an automatic sampling system or manually. For automatic sampling, follow ASTM D5287 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) for gaseous fuels or ASTM D4177 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) for liquid fuels. For manual sampling of gaseous fuels, follow API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 14, Section 1, GPA 2166, or ISO 10715 (all incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). For manual sampling of liquid fuels, follow GPA 2174 or the procedures for manual pipeline sampling in section 14 of ASTM D4057 (both incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The fuel analyses of this section may be performed either by you, a service contractor retained by you, the fuel vendor, or any other qualified agency. Analyze the samples for the total sulfur content of the fuel using:
(i) For liquid fuels, ASTM D129, or alternatively D1266, D1552, D2622, D4294, D5453, D5623, or D7039 (all incorporated by reference, see § 60.17); or
(ii) For gaseous fuels, ASTM D1072, or alternatively D3246, D4084, D4468, D4810, D6228, D6667, or GPA 2140, 2261, or 2377 (all incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).
(3) Measure the SO
2
concentration (in parts per million (ppm)), using EPA Methods 6, 6C, 8, or 20 in appendix A of this part. In addition, the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standard, ASME PTC 19-10-1981-Part 10, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” manual methods for sulfur dioxide (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) can be used instead of EPA Methods 6 or 20. For units complying with the output based standard, concurrently measure the stack gas flow rate, using EPA Methods 1 and 2 in appendix A of this part, and measure and record the electrical and thermal output from the unit. Then use the following equation to calculate the SO
2
emission rate:
ER06JY06.005
Where:
E = SO
2
emission rate, in lb/MWh
1.664 × 10
−7
= conversion constant, in lb/dscf-ppm
(SO
2
)
c
= average SO
2
concentration for the run, in ppm
Q
std
= stack gas volumetric flow rate, in dscf/hr
P = gross electrical and mechanical energy output of the combustion turbine, in MW (for simple-cycle operation), for combined-cycle operation, the sum of all electrical and mechanical output from the combustion and steam turbines, or, for combined heat and power operation, the sum of all electrical and mechanical output from the combustion and steam turbines plus all useful recovered thermal output not used for additional electric or mechanical generation, in MW, calculated according to § 60.4350(f)(2); or
(4) Measure the SO
2
and diluent gas concentrations, using either EPA Methods 6, 6C, or 8 and 3A, or 20 in appendix A of this part. In addition, you may use the manual methods for sulfur dioxide ASME PTC 19-10-1981-Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). Concurrently measure the heat input to the unit, using a fuel flowmeter (or flowmeters), and measure the electrical and thermal output of the unit. Use EPA Method 19 in appendix A of this part to calculate the SO
2
emission rate in lb/MMBtu. Then, use Equations 1 and, if necessary, 2 and 3 in § 60.4350(f) to calculate the SO
2
emission rate in lb/MWh.
(b) [Reserved]
[71 FR 38497, July 6, 2006, as amended at 85 FR 63410, Oct. 7, 2020]

# Definitions
§ 60.4420
What definitions apply to this subpart?
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein will have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act and in subpart A (General Provisions) of this part.
Biogas
means gas produced by the anaerobic digestion or fermentation of organic matter including manure, sewage sludge, municipal solid waste, biodegradable waste, or any other biodegradable feedstock, under anaerobic conditions. Biogas is comprised primarily of methane and CO
2
.
Combined cycle combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine which recovers heat from the combustion turbine exhaust gases to generate steam that is only used to create additional power output in a steam turbine.
Combined heat and power combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine which recovers heat from the exhaust gases to heat water or another medium, generate steam for useful purposes other than additional electric generation, or directly uses the heat in the exhaust gases for a useful purpose.
Combustion turbine model
means a group of combustion turbines having the same nominal air flow, combustor inlet pressure, combustor inlet temperature, firing temperature, turbine inlet temperature and turbine inlet pressure.
Combustion turbine test cell/stand
means any apparatus used for testing
uninstalled stationary or uninstalled mobile (motive) combustion turbines.
Diffusion flame stationary combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine where fuel and air are injected at the combustor and are mixed only by diffusion prior to ignition.
Duct burner
means a device that combusts fuel and that is placed in the exhaust duct from another source, such as a stationary combustion turbine, internal combustion engine, kiln, etc., to allow the firing of additional fuel to heat the exhaust gases before the exhaust gases enter a heat recovery steam generating unit.
Efficiency
means the combustion turbine manufacturer's rated heat rate at peak load in terms of heat input per unit of power output—based on the higher heating value of the fuel.
Emergency combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine which operates in an emergency situation. Examples include stationary combustion turbines used to produce power for critical networks or equipment, including power supplied to portions of a facility, when electric power from the local utility is interrupted, or stationary combustion turbines used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc. Emergency stationary combustion turbines do not include stationary combustion turbines used as peaking units at electric utilities or stationary combustion turbines at industrial facilities that typically operate at low capacity factors. Emergency combustion turbines may be operated for the purpose of maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are required by the manufacturer, the vendor, or the insurance company associated with the turbine. Required testing of such units should be minimized, but there is no time limit on the use of emergency combustion turbines.
Excess emissions
means a specified averaging period over which either (1) the NO
X
emissions are higher than the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320; (2) the total sulfur content of the fuel being combusted in the affected facility exceeds the limit specified in § 60.4330; or (3) the recorded value of a particular monitored parameter is outside the acceptable range specified in the parameter monitoring plan for the affected unit.
Gross useful output
means the gross useful work performed by the stationary combustion turbine system. For units using the mechanical energy directly or generating only electricity, the gross useful work performed is the gross electrical or mechanical output from the turbine/generator set. For combined heat and power units, the gross useful work performed is the gross electrical or mechanical output plus the useful thermal output (i.e., thermal energy delivered to a process).
Heat recovery steam generating unit
means a unit where the hot exhaust gases from the combustion turbine are routed in order to extract heat from the gases and generate steam, for use in a steam turbine or other device that utilizes steam. Heat recovery steam generating units can be used with or without duct burners.
Integrated gasification combined cycle electric utility steam generating unit
means a coal-fired electric utility steam generating unit that burns a synthetic gas derived from coal in a combined-cycle gas turbine. No solid coal is directly burned in the unit during operation.
ISO conditions
means 288 Kelvin, 60 percent relative humidity and 101.3 kilopascals pressure.
Lean premix stationary combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine where the air and fuel are thoroughly mixed to form a lean mixture before delivery to the combustor. Mixing may occur before or in the combustion chamber. A lean premixed turbine may operate in diffusion flame mode during operating conditions such as startup and shutdown, extreme ambient temperature, or low or transient load.
Natural gas
means a naturally occurring fluid mixture of hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, or propane) produced in geological formations beneath the Earth's surface that maintains a gaseous state at standard atmospheric temperature and pressure under ordinary conditions. Additionally, natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 950 and 1,100 British thermal units (Btu) per
standard cubic foot. Natural gas does not include the following gaseous fuels: landfill gas, digester gas, refinery gas, sour gas, blast furnace gas, coal-derived gas, producer gas, coke oven gas, or any gaseous fuel produced in a process which might result in highly variable sulfur content or heating value.
Noncontinental area
means the State of Hawaii, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or offshore platforms.
Peak load
means 100 percent of the manufacturer's design capacity of the combustion turbine at ISO conditions.
Regenerative cycle combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine which recovers heat from the combustion turbine exhaust gases to preheat the inlet combustion air to the combustion turbine.
Simple cycle combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine which does not recover heat from the combustion turbine exhaust gases to preheat the inlet combustion air to the combustion turbine, or which does not recover heat from the combustion turbine exhaust gases for purposes other than enhancing the performance of the combustion turbine itself.
Stationary combustion turbine
means all equipment, including but not limited to the turbine, the fuel, air, lubrication and exhaust gas systems, control systems (except emissions control equipment), heat recovery system, and any ancillary components and sub-components comprising any simple cycle stationary combustion turbine, any regenerative/recuperative cycle stationary combustion turbine, any combined cycle combustion turbine, and any combined heat and power combustion turbine based system. Stationary means that the combustion turbine is not self propelled or intended to be propelled while performing its function. It may, however, be mounted on a vehicle for portability.
Unit operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted continuously for the entire 24-hour period.
Unit operating hour
means a clock hour during which any fuel is combusted in the affected unit. If the unit combusts fuel for the entire clock hour, it is considered to be a full unit operating hour. If the unit combusts fuel for only part of the clock hour, it is considered to be a partial unit operating hour.
Useful thermal output
means the thermal energy made available for use in any industrial or commercial process, or used in any heating or cooling application, i.e., total thermal energy made available for processes and applications other than electrical or mechanical generation. Thermal output for this subpart means the energy in recovered thermal output measured against the energy in the thermal output at 15 degrees Celsius and 101.325 kilopascals of pressure.
[71 FR 38497, July 6, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 11861, Mar. 20, 2009]
Pt. 60, Subpt. KKKK, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart KKKK of Part 60—Nitrogen Oxide Emission Limits for New Stationary Combustion Turbines
Combustion turbine type
Combustion turbine heat input at peak load
(HHV)
NO
X
emission standard
New turbine firing natural gas, electric generating
≤ 50 MMBtu/h
42 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 290 ng/J of useful output (2.3 lb/MWh).
New turbine firing natural gas, mechanical drive
≤ 50 MMBtu/h
100 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 690 ng/J of useful output (5.5 lb/MWh).
New turbine firing natural gas
50 MMBtu/h and ≤ 850 MMBtu/h
25 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 150 ng/J of useful output (1.2 lb/MWh).
New, modified, or reconstructed turbine firing natural gas
850 MMBtu/h
15 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 54 ng/J of useful output (0.43 lb/MWh)
New turbine firing fuels other than natural gas, electric generating
≤ 50 MMBtu/h
96 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 700 ng/J of useful output (5.5 lb/MWh).
New turbine firing fuels other than natural gas, mechanical drive
≤ 50 MMBtu/h
150 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 1,100 ng/J of useful output (8.7 lb/MWh).
New turbine firing fuels other than natural gas
50 MMBtu/h and ≤ 850 MMBtu/h
74 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 460 ng/J of useful output (3.6 lb/MWh).
New, modified, or reconstructed turbine firing fuels other than natural gas
850 MMBtu/h
42 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 160 ng/J of useful output (1.3 lb/MWh).
Modified or reconstructed turbine
≤ 50 MMBtu/h
150 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 1,100 ng/J of useful output (8.7 lb/MWh).
Modified or reconstructed turbine firing natural gas
50 MMBtu/h and ≤ 850 MMBtu/h
42 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 250 ng/J of useful output (2.0 lb/MWh).
Modified or reconstructed turbine firing fuels other than natural gas
50 MMBtu/h and ≤ 850 MMBtu/h
96 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 590 ng/J of useful output (4.7 lb/MWh).
Turbines located north of the Arctic Circle (latitude 66.5 degrees north), turbines operating at less than 75 percent of peak load, modified and reconstructed offshore turbines, and turbine operating at temperatures less than 0 °F
≤ 30 MW output
150 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 1,100 ng/J of useful output (8.7 lb/MWh).
Turbines located north of the Arctic Circle (latitude 66.5 degrees north), turbines operating at less than 75 percent of peak load, modified and reconstructed offshore turbines, and turbine operating at temperatures less than 0 °F
30 MW output
96 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 590 ng/J of useful output (4.7 lb/MWh).
Heat recovery units operating independent of the combustion turbine
All sizes
54 ppm at 15 percent O
2
or 110 ng/J of useful output (0.86 lb/MWh).

# Subpart LLLL—Standards of Performance for New Sewage Sludge Incineration Units

# Source:
76 FR 15404, Mar. 21, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction
§ 60.4760
What does this subpart do?
This subpart establishes new source performance standards for sewage sludge incineration (SSI) units. To the extent any requirement of this subpart is inconsistent with the requirements of subpart A of this part, the requirements of this subpart will apply.
§ 60.4765
When does this subpart become effective?
This subpart takes effect on
September 21, 2011.
Some of the requirements in this subpart apply to planning a SSI unit and must be completed even before construction is initiated on a SSI unit (
i.e.,
the preconstruction requirements in §§ 60.4800 and 60.4805). Other requirements such as the emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits apply after the SSI unit begins operation.

# Applicability and Delegation of Authority
§ 60.4770
Does this subpart apply to my sewage sludge incineration unit?
Yes, your SSI unit is an affected source if it meets all the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Your SSI unit is a SSI unit for which construction commenced after October 14, 2010 or for which modification commenced after September 21, 2011.
(b) Your SSI unit is a SSI unit as defined in § 60.4930.
(c) Your SSI unit is not exempt under § 60.4780.
§ 60.4775
What is a new sewage sludge incineration unit?
(a) A new SSI unit is a SSI unit that meets either of the two criteria specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Commenced construction after October 14, 2010.
(2) Commenced modification after September 21, 2011.
(b) Physical or operational changes made to your SSI unit to comply with the emission guidelines in subpart
MMMM of this part (Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units) do not qualify as a modification under this subpart.
§ 60.4780
What sewage sludge incineration units are exempt from this subpart?
This subpart exempts combustion units that incinerate sewage sludge and are not located at a wastewater treatment facility designed to treat domestic sewage sludge. These units may be subject to another subpart of this part (
e.g.,
subpart CCCC of this part). The owner or operator of such a combustion unit must notify the Administrator of an exemption claim under this section.
§ 60.4785
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the Administrator, as defined in § 60.2, or a delegated authority such as your state, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the Administrator) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the state, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(8) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the emission limits and standards in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart and operating limits established under § 60.4850.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting.
(5) The requirements in § 60.4855.
(6) The requirements in § 60.4835(b)(2).
(7) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).
(8) Preconstruction siting analysis in §§ 60.4800 and 60.4805.
§ 60.4790
How are these new source performance standards structured?
These new source performance standards contain the nine major components listed in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(a) Preconstruction siting analysis.
(b) Operator training and qualification.
(c) Emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits.
(d) Initial compliance requirements.
(e) Continuous compliance requirements.
(f) Performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements.
(g) Recordkeeping and reporting.
(h) Definitions.
(i) Tables.
§ 60.4795
Do all nine components of these new source performance standards apply at the same time?
No. You must meet the preconstruction siting analysis requirements before you commence construction of the SSI unit. The operator training and qualification, emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, performance testing, and compliance, monitoring, and most recordkeeping and reporting requirements are met after the SSI unit begins operation.

# Preconstruction Siting Analysis
§ 60.4800
Who must prepare a siting analysis?
(a) You must prepare a siting analysis if you plan to commence construction of a SSI unit after October 14, 2010.
(b) You must prepare a siting analysis if you are required to submit an initial application for a construction permit under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or 40 CFR part 52, as applicable, for the modification of your SSI unit.
§ 60.4805
What is a siting analysis?
(a) The siting analysis must consider air pollution control alternatives that minimize, on a site-specific basis, to
the maximum extent practicable, potential risks to public health or the environment, including impacts of the affected SSI unit on ambient air quality, visibility, soils, and vegetation. In considering such alternatives, the analysis may consider costs, energy impacts, nonair environmental impacts, or any other factors related to the practicability of the alternatives.
(b) Analyses of your SSI unit's impacts that are prepared to comply with state, local, or other Federal regulatory requirements may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section, provided they include the consideration of air pollution control alternatives specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) You must complete and submit the siting requirements of this section as required under § 60.4915(a)(3) prior to commencing construction.

# Operator Training and Qualification
§ 60.4810
What are the operator training and qualification requirements?
(a) A SSI unit cannot be operated unless a fully trained and qualified SSI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified SSI unit operator may operate the SSI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified SSI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in § 60.4835.
(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a state-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.
(1) Training on the 10 subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(x) of this section.
(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions.
(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion.
(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, sewage sludge feeding, and shutdown procedures.
(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring.
(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable).
(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices.
(vii) Actions to prevent malfunctions or to prevent conditions that may lead to malfunctions.
(viii) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures.
(ix) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards.
(x) Pollution prevention.
(2) An examination designed and administered by the state-approved program.
(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.
§ 60.4815
When must the operator training course be completed?
The operator training course must be completed by the later of the two dates specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Six months after your SSI unit startup.
(b) The date before an employee assumes responsibility for operating the SSI unit or assumes responsibility for supervising the operation of the SSI unit.
§ 60.4820
How do I obtain my operator qualification?
(a) You must obtain operator qualification by completing a training course that satisfies the criteria under § 60.4810(b).
(b) Qualification is valid from the date on which the training course is completed and the operator successfully passes the examination required under § 60.4810(c)(2).
§ 60.4825
How do I maintain my operator qualification?
To maintain qualification, you must complete an annual review or refresher course covering, at a minimum, the five topics described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Update of regulations.
(b) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures, sewage sludge feeding, and ash handling.
(c) Inspection and maintenance.
(d) Prevention of malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(e) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.
§ 60.4830
How do I renew my lapsed operator qualification?
You must renew a lapsed operator qualification before you begin operation of a SSI unit by one of the two methods specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For a lapse of less than 3 years, you must complete a standard annual refresher course described in § 60.4825.
(b) For a lapse of 3 years or more, you must repeat the initial qualification requirements in § 60.4820(a).
§ 60.4835
What if all the qualified operators are temporarily not accessible?
If a qualified operator is not at the facility and cannot be at the facility within 1 hour, you must meet the criteria specified in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, depending on the length of time that a qualified operator is not accessible.
(a) When a qualified operator is not accessible for more than 8 hours, the SSI unit may be operated for less than 2 weeks by other plant personnel who are familiar with the operation of the SSI unit and who have completed a review of the information specified in § 60.4840 within the past 12 months. However, you must record the period when a qualified operator was not accessible and include this deviation in the annual report as specified under § 60.4915(d).
(b) When a qualified operator is not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions that are described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator of this deviation in writing within 10 days. In the notice, state what caused this deviation, what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, and when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(2) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks outlining what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, stating when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible, and requesting approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the SSI unit. You must submit the first status report 4 weeks after you notify the Administrator of the deviation under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(i) If the Administrator notifies you that your request to continue operation of the SSI unit is disapproved, the SSI unit may continue operation for 30 days, and then must cease operation.
(ii) Operation of the unit may resume if a qualified operator is accessible as required under § 60.4810(a). You must notify the Administrator within 5 days of having resumed operations and of having a qualified operator accessible.
§ 60.4840
What site-specific documentation is required and how often must it be reviewed by qualified operators and plant personnel?
(a) You must maintain at the facility the documentation of the operator training procedures specified under § 60.4910(c)(1) and make the documentation readily accessible to all SSI unit operators.
(b) You must establish a program for reviewing the information listed in § 60.4910(c)(1) with each qualified incinerator operator and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.4835(a), according to the following schedule:
(1) The initial review of the information listed in § 60.4910(c)(1) must be conducted within 6 months after the effective date of this subpart or prior to an employee's assumption of responsibilities for operation of the SSI unit, whichever date is later.
(2) Subsequent annual reviews of the information listed in § 60.4910(c)(1) must be conducted no later than 12 months following the previous review.

# Emission Limits, Emission Standards, and Operating Limits and Requirements
§ 60.4845
What emission limits and standards must I meet and by when?
You must meet the emission limits and standards specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart within 60 days after your SSI unit reaches the feed rate at which it will operate or within 180 days after its initial startup, whichever comes first. The emission limits and standards apply at all times the unit is operating, and during periods of malfunction. The emission limits and standards apply to emissions from a bypass stack or vent while sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time).
§ 60.4850
What operating limits and requirements must I meet and by when?
You must meet, as applicable, the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) and (h) of this section, according to the schedule specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The operating parameters for which you will establish operating limits for a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection are listed in Table 3 to this subpart. You must comply with the operating requirements in paragraph (f) of this section and the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section for meeting any new operating limits, re-established in § 60.4890. The operating limits apply at all times that sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time).
(a) You must meet a site-specific operating limit for minimum operating temperature of the combustion chamber (or afterburner combustion chamber) that you establish in § 60.4890(a)(2)(i).
(b) If you use a wet scrubber, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection to comply with an emission limit, you must meet the site-specific operating limits that you establish in § 60.4870 for each operating parameter associated with each air pollution control device.
(c) If you use a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, you must install the bag leak detection system specified in §§ 60.4880(b) and 60.4905(b)(3)(i) and operate the bag leak detection system such that the alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. You must calculate the alarm time as specified in § 60.4870.
(d) You must meet the operating requirements in your site-specific fugitive emission monitoring plan, submitted as specified in § 60.4880(d) to ensure that your ash handling system will meet the emission standard for fugitive emissions from ash handling.
(e) You must meet the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section 60 days after your SSI unit reaches the feed rate at which it will operate, or within 180 days after its initial startup, whichever comes first.
(f) You must monitor the feed rate and moisture content of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1) Continuously monitor the sewage sludge feed rate and calculate a daily average for all hours of operation during each 24-hour period. Keep a record of the daily average feed rate, as specified in § 60.4910(f)(3)(ii).
(2) Take at least one grab sample per day of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator. If you take more than one grab sample in a day, calculate the daily average for the grab samples. Keep a record of the daily average moisture content, as specified in § 60.4910(f)(3)(ii).
(g) For the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) and (h) of this section, you must meet any new operating limits and requirements, re-established according to § 60.4890(d).
(h) If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection to comply with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must meet any site-specific operating limits or requirements that you establish as required in § 60.4855.
§ 60.4855
How do I establish operating limits if I do not use a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection, or if I limit emissions in some other manner, to comply with the emission limits?
If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection, or limit emissions in some other manner (
e.g.,
materials balance) to comply with the emission limits in § 60.4845, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Meet the applicable operating limits and requirements in § 60.4850, and establish applicable operating limits according to § 60.4870.
(b) Petition the Administrator for specific operating parameters, operating limits, and averaging periods to be established during the initial performance test and to be monitored continuously thereafter.
(1) You are responsible for submitting any supporting information in a timely manner to enable the Administrator to consider the application prior to the performance test. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by the Administrator, and you must comply with the operating limits as written, pending approval by the Administrator. Neither submittal of an application, nor the Administrator's failure to approve or disapprove the application relieves you of the responsibility to comply with any provision of this subpart.
(2) Your petition must include the five items listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section.
(i) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to monitor.
(ii) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants.
(iii) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters that will establish the operating limits on these parameters, including a discussion of the averaging periods associated with those parameters for determining compliance.
(iv) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments.
(v) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.
§ 60.4860
Do the emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits apply during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction?
The emission limits and standards apply at all times and during periods of malfunction. The operating limits apply at all times that sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time).
§ 60.4861
How do I establish an affirmative defense for exceedance of an emission limit or standard during malfunction?
In response to an action to enforce the numerical emission standards set forth in paragraph § 60.4845, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for exceedances of emission limits that are caused by malfunction, as defined in § 60.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a limit, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (b) of
this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9) of this section are met.
(1) The excess emissions meet:
(i) Were caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner, and
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices, and
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for, and
(iv) Were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance, and (2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when the applicable emission limits were being exceeded. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs, and
(3) The frequency, amount and duration of the excess emissions (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable during periods of such emissions, and
(4) If the excess emissions resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage, and
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the excess emissions on ambient air quality, the environment and human health, and
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices, and
(7) All of the actions in response to the excess emissions were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, and
(8) At all times, the affected facility was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions, and
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b) The owner or operator of the SSI unit experiencing an exceedance of its emission limit(s) during a malfunction, shall notify the Administrator by telephone or facsimile (fax) transmission as soon as possible, but no later than 2 business days after the initial occurrence of the malfunction, if it wishes to avail itself of an affirmative defense to civil penalties for that malfunction. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall also submit a written report to the Administrator within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance of the standard in § 60.4845 to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The owner or operator may seek an extension of this deadline for up to 30 additional days by submitting a written request to the Administrator before the expiration of the 45 day period. Until a request for an extension has been approved by the Administrator, the owner or operator is subject to the requirement to submit such report within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance.

# Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 60.4865
How and when do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards?
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, use the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling, and follow the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for carbon monoxide. In lieu of using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you also have the option to demonstrate initial compliance using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride,
dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead. You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, and paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, according to the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements in § 60.4900(a) and (b). Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, within 60 days after your SSI unit reaches the feed rate at which it will operate, or within 180 days after its initial startup, whichever comes first, you must demonstrate that your SSI unit meets the emission limits and standards specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(a) Demonstrate initial compliance using the performance test required in § 60.8. You must demonstrate that your SSI unit meets the emission limits and standards specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling using the performance test. The initial performance test must be conducted using the test methods, averaging methods, and minimum sampling volumes or durations specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and according to the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in § 60.4900(a).
(b) Demonstrate initial compliance using a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
Collect data as specified in § 60.4900(b)(6) and use the following procedures:
(1) To demonstrate initial compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must use the carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring system specified in § 60.4900(b). For determining compliance with the carbon monoxide concentration limit using carbon monoxide CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured carbon monoxide concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other carbon monoxide concentrations (corrected to 7 percent oxygen) to determine the 24-hour average value.
(2) To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead, you may substitute the use of a continuous monitoring system in lieu of conducting the initial performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, as follows:
(i) You may substitute the use of a continuous emissions monitoring system for any pollutant specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section in lieu of conducting the initial performance test for that pollutant in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) You may substitute the use of a continuous automated sampling system for mercury or dioxins/furans in lieu of conducting the initial mercury or dioxin/furan performance test in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If you use a continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, you must use the continuous emissions monitoring system and follow the requirements specified in § 60.4900(b). You must measure emissions according to § 60.13 to calculate 1-hour arithmetic averages, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide). You must demonstrate initial compliance using a 24-hour block average of these 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, calculated using Equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(4) If you use a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you must:
(i) Use the continuous automated sampling system specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q), and measure and calculate average emissions corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide) according to § 60.58b(p) and your monitoring plan.
(A) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 24-hour block averages to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(B) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 2-week block averages to determine compliance with the dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(ii) Comply with the provisions in § 60.58b(q) to develop a monitoring plan. For mercury continuous automated sampling systems, you must use Performance Specification 12B of appendix B of part 75 and Procedure 5 of appendix F of this part.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, you must complete your initial performance evaluations required under your monitoring plan for any continuous emissions monitoring system and continuous automated sampling systems according to the provisions of § 60.4880. Your performance evaluation must be conducted using the procedures and acceptance criteria specified in § 60.4880(a)(3).
(c) To demonstrate initial compliance with the dioxins/furans toxic equivalency emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency as follows:
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octachlorinated-isomer emitted using Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(2) Multiply the concentration of each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octa-chlorinated) isomer by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 4 to this subpart.
(3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(d) Submit an initial compliance report, as specified in § 60.4915(c).
(e) If you demonstrate initial compliance using the performance test specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply. If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must notify the Administrator in writing as specified in § 60.4915(g). You must conduct the initial performance test as soon as practicable after the force majeure occurs. The Administrator will determine whether or not to grant the extension to the initial performance test deadline, and will notify you in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an extension as soon as practicable. Until an extension of the performance test deadline has been approved by the Administrator, you remain strictly subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.4870
How do I establish my operating limits?
(a) You must establish the site-specific operating limits specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section or established in § 60.4855, as applicable, during your initial performance tests required in § 60.4865. You must meet the requirements in § 60.4890(d) to confirm these operating limits or re-establish new operating limits using operating data recorded during any performance tests or performance evaluations required in § 60.4885. You must follow the data measurement and recording frequencies and data averaging times specified in Table 3 to this subpart or as established in § 60.4855, and you must follow the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in §§ 60.4900 and 60.4905 or established in § 60.4855. You are not required to establish operating limits for the operating parameters listed in Table 3 to this subpart for a control device if you use a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for the applicable pollutants, as follows:
(1) For a scrubber designed to control emissions of hydrogen chloride or sulfur dioxide, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor, scrubber liquid flow rate or scrubber liquid pH if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for hydrogen chloride or sulfur dioxide.
(2) For a scrubber designed to control emissions of particulate matter, cadmium, and lead, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor pressure drop across the scrubber or scrubber liquid flow rate if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for particulate matter, cadmium, and lead.
(3) For an electrostatic precipitator designed to control emissions of particulate matter, cadmium, and lead, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor secondary voltage of the collection plates, secondary amperage of the collection plates, or effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for particulate matter, cadmium, and lead.
(4) For an activated carbon injection system designed to control emissions of mercury, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate (or carrier gas pressure drop) if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for mercury.
(5) For an activated carbon injection system designed to control emissions of dioxins/furans, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate (or carrier gas pressure drop) if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis).
(b) Minimum pressure drop across each wet scrubber used to meet the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, equal to the lowest 4-hour average pressure drop across each such wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits.
(c) Minimum scrubber liquid flow rate (measured at the inlet to each wet scrubber), equal to the lowest 4-hour average liquid flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
(d) Minimum scrubber liquid pH for each wet scrubber used to meet the sulfur dioxide or hydrogen chloride emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, equal to the lowest 1-hour average scrubber liquid pH measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride emission limits.
(e) Minimum combustion chamber operating temperature (or minimum afterburner temperature), equal to the lowest 4-hour average combustion chamber operating temperature (or afterburner temperature) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
(f) Minimum power input to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates, equal to the lowest 4-hour average power measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits. Power input must be calculated as the product of the secondary voltage and secondary amperage to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates. Both the secondary voltage and secondary amperage must be recorded during the performance test.
(g) Minimum effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator, equal to the lowest 4-hour average effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator
measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits.
(h) For activated carbon injection, establish the site-specific operating limits specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.
(1) Minimum mercury sorbent injection rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average mercury sorbent injection rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit.
(2) Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limit.
(3) Minimum carrier gas flow rate or minimum carrier gas pressure drop, as follows:
(i) Minimum carrier gas flow rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average carrier gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
(ii) Minimum carrier gas pressure drop, equal to the lowest 4-hour average carrier gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
§ 60.4875
By what date must I conduct the initial air pollution control device inspection and make any necessary repairs?
(a) You must conduct an air pollution control device inspection according to § 60.4900(c) within 60 days of installing an air pollution control device or within 180 days of startup of the SSI unit using the air pollution control device, whichever comes first.
(b) Within 10 operating days following the air pollution control device inspection under paragraph (a) of this section, all necessary repairs must be completed unless you obtain written approval from the Administrator establishing a date whereby all necessary repairs of the SSI unit must be completed.
§ 60.4880
How do I develop a site-specific monitoring plan for my continuous monitoring, bag leak detection, and ash handling systems, and by what date must I conduct an initial performance evaluation?
You must develop and submit to the Administrator for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each continuous monitoring system required under this subpart, according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i) and paragraph (e) of this section. If you use a continuous automated sampling system to comply with the mercury or dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limit, you must develop your monitoring plan as specified in § 60.58b(q), and you are not required to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. You must also submit a site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. You must submit and update your monitoring plans as specified in paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section.
(a) For each continuous monitoring system, your monitoring plan must address the elements and requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(8) of this section. You must operate and maintain the continuous monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
(1) Installation of the continuous monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.
, on or downstream of the last control device).
(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer and the data collection and reduction systems.
(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(i) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, your performance evaluation and acceptance criteria must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) The applicable requirements for continuous emissions monitoring systems specified in § 60.13.
(B) The applicable performance specifications (
e.g.
, relative accuracy tests) in appendix B of this part.
(C) The applicable procedures (
e.g.
, quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests) in appendix F of this part.
(D) A discussion of how the occurrence and duration of out-of-control periods will affect the suitability of CEMS data, where out-of-control has the meaning given in section (a)(7)(i) of this section.
(ii) For continuous parameter monitoring systems, your performance evaluation and acceptance criteria must include, but is not limited to the following:
(A) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a flow monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the flow sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative flow.
(
2
) Use a flow sensor with a measurement sensitivity of no greater than 2 percent of the expected process flow rate.
(
3
) Minimize the effects of swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.
(
4
) Conduct a flow monitoring system performance evaluation in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(B) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a pressure monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the pressure sensor(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure (
e.g.
, particulate matter scrubber pressure drop).
(
2
) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(
3
) Use a pressure sensor with a minimum tolerance of 1.27 centimeters of water or a minimum tolerance of 1 percent of the pressure monitoring system operating range, whichever is less.
(
4
) Perform checks at least once each process operating day to ensure pressure measurements are not obstructed (
e.g.
, check for pressure tap pluggage daily).
(
5
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(
6
) If at any time the measured pressure exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range, conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan and confirm that the pressure monitoring system continues to meet the performance requirements in your monitoring plan. Alternatively, install and verify the operation of a new pressure sensor.
(C) If you have an operating limit that requires a pH monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(C)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the pH sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber effluent pH.
(
2
) Ensure the sample is properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured.
(
3
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at least once each process operating day.
(
4
) Conduct a performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the pH of the operating limit) of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than quarterly.
(D) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a temperature measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs
(a)(3)(ii)(D)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the temperature sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(
2
) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit), or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger, for a noncryogenic temperature range.
(
3
) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit), or 2.5 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger, for a cryogenic temperature range.
(
4
) Conduct a temperature measurement device performance evaluation at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(E) If you have an operating limit that requires a secondary electric power monitoring system for an electrostatic precipitator, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(E)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Install sensors to measure (secondary) voltage and current to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates.
(
2
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the electric power monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(F) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a monitoring system to measure sorbent injection rate (
e.g.,
weigh belt, weigh hopper, or hopper flow measurement device), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(F)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the system in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the total sorbent injection rate.
(
2
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the sorbent injection rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(4) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.11(d).
(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.13.
(6) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.7(b), (c), (c)(1), (c)(4), (d), (e), (f) and (g).
(7) Provisions for periods when the continuous monitoring system is out of control, as follows:
(i) A continuous monitoring system is out of control if the conditions of paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) or (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section are met.
(A) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration drift exceeds two times the applicable calibration drift specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard.
(B) The continuous monitoring system fails a performance test audit (
e.g.
, cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit.
(ii) When the continuous monitoring system is out of control as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section, you must take the necessary corrective action and must repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. You must take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour you conduct a performance check (
e.g.
, calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits.
(8) Schedule for conducting initial and periodic performance evaluations.
(b) If a bag leak detection system is used, your monitoring plan must include a description of the following items:
(1) Installation of the bag leak detection system in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Install the bag leak detection sensor(s) in a position(s) that will be representative of the relative or absolute particulate matter loadings for each
exhaust stack, roof vent, or compartment (
e.g.,
for a positive pressure fabric filter) of the fabric filter.
(ii) Use a bag leak detection system certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less.
(2) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established. Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a system that will sound an alarm when the system detects an increase in relative particulate matter emissions over a preset level. The alarm must be located where it is observed readily and any alert is detected and recognized easily by plant operating personnel.
(3) Evaluations of the performance of the bag leak detection system, performed in accordance with your monitoring plan and consistent with the guidance provided in Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).
(4) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures.
(5) Maintenance of the bag leak detection system, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.
(6) Recordkeeping (including record retention) of the bag leak detection system data. Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.
(c) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring system and bag leak detection system, as applicable, in accordance with your monitoring plan and § 60.13(c). For the purposes of this subpart, the provisions of § 60.13(c) also apply to the bag leak detection system. You must conduct the initial performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring system within 60 days of installation of the monitoring system.
(d) You must submit a monitoring plan specifying the ash handling system operating procedures that you will follow to ensure that you meet the fugitive emissions limit specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(e) You may submit an application to the Administrator for approval of alternate monitoring requirements to demonstrate compliance with the standards of this subpart, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section.
(1) The Administrator will not approve averaging periods other than those specified in this section, unless you document, using data or information, that the longer averaging period will ensure that emissions do not exceed levels achieved over the duration of three performance test runs.
(2) If the application to use an alternate monitoring requirement is approved, you must continue to use the original monitoring requirement until approval is received to use another monitoring requirement.
(3) You must submit the application for approval of alternate monitoring requirements no later than the notification of performance test. The application must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section:
(i) Data or information justifying the request, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality of using the required approach.
(ii) A description of the proposed alternative monitoring requirement, including the operating parameter to be monitored, the monitoring approach and technique, the averaging period for the limit, and how the limit is to be calculated.
(iii) Data or information documenting that the alternative monitoring requirement would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard.
(4) The Administrator will notify you of the approval or denial of the application within 90 calendar days after receipt of the original request, or within 60 calendar days of the receipt of any supplementary information, whichever is later. The Administrator will not approve an alternate monitoring application unless it would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard. Before disapproving any alternate monitoring application, the Administrator will provide the following:
(i) Notice of the information and findings upon which the intended disapproval is based.
(ii) Notice of opportunity for you to present additional supporting information before final action is taken on the application. This notice will specify how much additional time is allowed for you to provide additional supporting information.
(5) You are responsible for submitting any supporting information in a timely manner to enable the Administrator to consider the application prior to the performance test. Neither submittal of an application, nor the Administrator's failure to approve or disapprove the application relieves you of the responsibility to comply with any provision of this subpart.
(6) The Administrator may decide at any time, on a case-by-case basis, that additional or alternative operating limits, or alternative approaches to establishing operating limits, are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards of this subpart.
(f) You must submit your monitoring plans required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system(s).
(g) You must submit your monitoring plan for your ash handling system, as required in paragraph (d) of this section, at least 60 days before your initial compliance test date.
(h) You must update and resubmit your monitoring plan if there are any changes or potential changes in your monitoring procedures or if there is a process change, as defined in § 60.4930.

# Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 60.4885
How and when do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits and standards?
To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits and standards specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, use the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling, and follow the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for carbon monoxide. In lieu of using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you also have the option to demonstrate continuous compliance using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead. You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, according to the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements in § 60.4900(a) and (b). You may also petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(a) Demonstrate continuous compliance using a performance test. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (e) of this section, following the date that the initial performance test for each pollutant in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart except carbon monoxide is completed, you must conduct a performance test for each such pollutant on an annual basis (between 11 and 13 calendar months following the previous performance test). The performance test must be conducted using the test methods, averaging methods, and minimum sampling volumes or durations specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and according to the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in § 60.4900(a).
(1) You may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits to apply from that point forward. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time.
(2) You must repeat the performance test within 60 days of a process change, as defined in § 60.4930.
(3) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, you can conduct performance tests less often for a given pollutant, as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You can conduct performance tests less often if your performance tests for the pollutant for at least 2
consecutive years show that your emissions are at or below 75 percent of the emission limit specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, and there are no changes in the operation of the affected source or air pollution control equipment that could increase emissions. In this case, you do not have to conduct a performance test for that pollutant for the next 2 years. You must conduct a performance test during the third year and no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.
(ii) If your SSI unit continues to meet the emission limit for the pollutant, you may choose to conduct performance tests for the pollutant every third year if your emissions are at or below 75 percent of the emission limit, and if there are no changes in the operation of the affected source or air pollution control equipment that could increase emissions, but each such performance test must be conducted no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.
(iii) If a performance test shows emissions exceeded 75 percent of the emission limit for a pollutant, you must conduct annual performance tests for that pollutant until all performance tests over 2 consecutive years show compliance.
(b) Demonstrate continuous compliance using a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
Collect data as specified in § 60.4900(b)(6) and use the following procedures:
(1) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit, you must use the carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring system specified in § 60.4900(b). For determining compliance with the carbon monoxide concentration limit using carbon monoxide CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured carbon monoxide concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other carbon monoxide concentrations (corrected to 7 percent oxygen) to determine the 24-hour average value.
(2) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead, you may substitute the use of a continuous monitoring system in lieu of conducting the annual performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, as follows:
(i) You may substitute the use of a continuous emissions monitoring system for any pollutant specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section in lieu of conducting the annual performance test for that pollutant in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) You may substitute the use of a continuous automated sampling system for mercury or dioxins/furans in lieu of conducting the annual mercury or dioxin/furan performance test in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If you use a continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, you must use the continuous emissions monitoring system and follow the requirements specified in § 60.4900(b). You must measure emissions according to § 60.13 to calculate 1-hour arithmetic averages, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide). You must demonstrate initial compliance using a 24-hour block average of these 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, calculated using Equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(4) If you use a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you must:
(i) Use the continuous automated sampling system specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q), and measure and calculate average emissions corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide) according to § 60.58b(p) and your monitoring plan.
(A) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 24-hour averages to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(B) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 2-week averages to determine compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(ii) Update your monitoring plan as specified in § 60.4880(e). For mercury continuous automated sampling systems, you must use Performance Specification 12B of appendix B of part 75 and Procedure 5 of appendix F of this part.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, you must complete your periodic performance evaluations required under your monitoring plan for any continuous emissions monitoring system and continuous automated sampling systems, according to the schedule specified in your monitoring plan. If you were previously determining compliance by conducting an annual performance test (or according to the less frequent testing for a pollutant as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), you must complete the initial performance evaluation required in your monitoring plan in § 60.4880 for the continuous monitoring system prior to using the continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance or continuous automated sampling system. Your performance evaluation must be conducted using the procedures and acceptance criteria specified in § 60.4880(a)(3).
(c) To demonstrate compliance with the dioxins/furans toxic equivalency emission limit in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, you must determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency as follows:
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octa-chlorinated isomer emitted using EPA Method 23.
(2) For each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octa-chlorinated) isomer measured in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, multiply the isomer concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 4 to this subpart.
(3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(d) You must submit the annual compliance report specified in § 60.4915(d). You must submit the deviation report specified in § 60.4915(e) for each instance that you did not meet each emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(e) If you demonstrate continuous compliance using a performance test, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply. If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must notify the Administrator in writing as specified in § 60.4915(g). You must conduct the performance test as soon as practicable after the force majeure occurs. The Administrator will determine whether or not to grant the extension to the performance test deadline, and will notify you in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an extension as soon as practicable. Until an extension of the performance test deadline has been approved by the Administrator, you remain strictly subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(f) After any initial requests in § 60.4880 for alternative monitoring requirements for initial compliance, you may subsequently petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters as specified in §§ 60.13(i) and 60.4880(e).
§ 60.4890
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with my operating limits?
You must continuously monitor your operating parameters as specified in paragraph (a) of this section and meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, according to the monitoring and calibration requirements in § 60.4905. You must confirm
and re-establish your operating limits as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section using the continuous monitoring equipment and according to the procedures specified in § 60.4905 or established in § 60.4855. To determine compliance, you must use the data averaging period specified in Table 3 to this subpart (except for alarm time of the baghouse leak detection system) unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.4855.
(1) You must demonstrate that the SSI unit meets the operating limits established according to §§ 60.4855 and 60.4870 and paragraph (d) of this section for each applicable operating parameter.
(2) You must demonstrate that the SSI unit meets the operating limit for bag leak detection systems as follows:
(i) For a bag leak detection system, you must calculate the alarm time as follows:
(A) If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted.
(B) If corrective action is required, each alarm time shall be counted as a minimum of 1 hour.
(C) If you take longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, each alarm time (
i.e.,
time that the alarm sounds) is counted as the actual amount of time taken by you to initiate corrective action.
(ii) Your maximum alarm time is equal to 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period, as specified in § 60.4850(c).
(b) Operation above the established maximum, below the established minimum, or outside the allowable range of the operating limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a deviation from your operating limits established under this subpart, except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission and operating limits or to establish new operating limits. You must submit the deviation report specified in § 60.4915(e) for each instance that you did not meet one of your operating limits established under this subpart.
(c) You must submit the annual compliance report specified in § 60.4915(d) to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(d) You must confirm your operating limits according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section or re-establish operating limits according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Your operating limits must be established so as to assure ongoing compliance with the emission limits. These requirements also apply to your operating requirements in your fugitive emissions monitoring plan specified in § 60.4850(d).
(1) Your operating limits must be based on operating data recorded during any performance test required in § 60.4885(a) or any performance evaluation required in § 60.4885(b)(5).
(2) You may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits to apply from that point forward.
§ 60.4895
By what date must I conduct annual air pollution control device inspections and make any necessary repairs?
(a) You must conduct an annual inspection of each air pollution control device used to comply with the emission limits, according to § 60.4900(c), no later than 12 months following the previous annual air pollution control device inspection.
(b) Within 10 operating days following an air pollution control device inspection, all necessary repairs must be completed unless you obtain written approval from the Administrator establishing a date whereby all necessary repairs of the affected SSI unit must be completed.

# Performance Testing, Monitoring, and Calibration Requirements
§ 60.4900
What are the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements for compliance with the emission limits and standards?
You must meet, as applicable, the performance testing requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the air pollution control device inspections requirements specified in
paragraph (c) of this section, and the bypass stack provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Performance testing requirements.
(1) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations, as specified in § 60.8(c). Emissions in excess of the emission limits or standards during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction are considered deviations from the applicable emission limits or standards.
(2) You must document that the dry sludge burned during the performance test is representative of the sludge burned under normal operating conditions by:
(i) Maintaining a log of the quantity of sewage sludge burned during the performance test by continuously monitoring and recording the average hourly rate that sewage sludge is fed to the incinerator.
(ii) Maintaining a log of the moisture content of the sewage sludge burned during the performance test by taking grab samples of the sewage sludge fed to the incinerator for each 8 hour period that testing is conducted.
(3) All performance tests must be conducted using the test methods, minimum sampling volume, observation period, and averaging methods specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(4) Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.
(5) Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 must be used simultaneously with each method.
(6) All pollutant concentrations must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 of this section:
ER21MR11.019
Where:
C
adj
= Pollutant concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen.
C
meas
= Pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis.
(20.9-7) = 20.9 percent oxygen−7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis).
20.9 = Oxygen concentration in air, percent.
%O
2
= Oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(7) Performance tests must be conducted and data reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures contained in this subpart unless the Administrator does one of the following.
(i) Specifies or approves, in specific cases, the use of a method with minor changes in methodology.
(ii) Approves the use of an equivalent method.
(iii) Approves the use of an alternative method the results of which he has determined to be adequate for indicating whether a specific source is in compliance.
(iv) Waives the requirement for performance tests because you have demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the affected SSI unit is in compliance with the standard.
(v) Approves shorter sampling times and smaller sample volumes when necessitated by process variables or other factors. Nothing in this paragraph is construed to abrogate the Administrator's authority to require testing under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.
(8) You must provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of any performance test, except as specified under other subparts, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems,
etc.
) in conducting the scheduled performance test, you must notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.
(9) You must provide, or cause to be provided, performance testing facilities as follows:
(i) Sampling ports adequate for the test methods applicable to the SSI unit, as follows:
(A) Constructing the air pollution control system such that volumetric flow rates and pollutant emission rates can be accurately determined by applicable test methods and procedures.
(B) Providing a stack or duct free of cyclonic flow during performance tests, as demonstrated by applicable test methods and procedures.
(ii) Safe sampling platform(s).
(iii) Safe access to sampling platform(s).
(iv) Utilities for sampling and testing equipment.
(10) Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each performance test must consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. Each run must be conducted for the time and under the conditions specified in the applicable standard. Compliance with each emission limit must be determined by calculating the arithmetic mean of the three runs. In the event that a sample is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances, beyond your control, compliance may, upon the Administrator's approval, be determined using the arithmetic mean of the results of the two other runs.
(11) During each test run specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must operate your sewage sludge incinerator at a minimum of 85 percent of your maximum permitted capacity.
(b)
Continuous monitor requirements.
You must meet the following requirements, as applicable, when using a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
If you elect to use a continuous emissions monitoring system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section. The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
(1) You must notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the continuous monitoring system.
(2) You must notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the continuous monitoring system, in which case you must also conduct a performance test prior to ceasing operation of the system.
(3) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the emissions to the atmosphere in accordance with the following:
(i) Section 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(ii) The following performance specifications of appendix B of this part, as applicable:
(A) For particulate matter, Performance Specification 11 of appendix B of this part.
(B) For hydrogen chloride, Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part.
(C) For carbon monoxide, Performance Specification 4B of appendix B of this part with the modifications shown in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart.
(D) [Reserved]
(E) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A of appendix B of this part.
(F) For nitrogen oxides, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part.
(G) For sulfur dioxide, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part.
(iii) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, the quality assurance procedures (
e.g.,
quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration
drift tests) of appendix F of this part specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (b)(3)(iii)(G) of this section. For each pollutant, the span value of the continuous emissions monitoring system is two times the applicable emission limit, expressed as a concentration.
(A) For particulate matter, Procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.
(B) For hydrogen chloride, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 shall be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part.
(C) For carbon monoxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(D) [Reserved]
(E) For mercury, Procedures 5 in appendix F of this part.
(F) For nitrogen oxides, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(G) For sulfur dioxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(iv) If your monitoring system has a malfunction or out-of-control period, you must complete repairs and resume operation of your monitoring system as expeditiously as possible.
(4) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emissions monitoring system using the performance specifications in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, emission data for each regulated pollutant and oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) must be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emissions monitoring systems and the test methods specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(viii) of this section. Relative accuracy testing must be at representative operating conditions while the SSI unit is charging sewage sludge.
(i) For particulate matter, Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Method 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 shall be used.
(ii) For hydrogen chloride, Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used as specified in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart.
(iii) For carbon monoxide, Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.
(iv) For dioxins/furans, Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, shall be used.
(v) For mercury, cadmium, and lead, Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 shall be used. Alternatively for mercury, Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), may be used.
(vi) For nitrogen oxides, Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.
(vii) For sulfur dioxide, Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) must be used. For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for inlet sulfur dioxide continuous emissions monitoring system should be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the method and the continuous emissions monitoring system, whichever is greater.
(viii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in (b)(5) of this section), Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), as applicable, must be used.
(5) You may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels must be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iv) of this section. This relationship may be re-established during subsequent performance tests.
(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2
must be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3A or 3B at 50 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), as applicable, must be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor.
(ii) Samples must be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour.
(iii) Each sample must represent a 1-hour average.
(iv) A minimum of three runs must be performed.
(6) You must operate the continuous monitoring system and collect data with the continuous monitoring system as follows:
(i) You must collect data using the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected SSI unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions that occur during periods specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). Any such periods that you do not collect data using the continuous monitoring system constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(ii) You must collect continuous emissions monitoring system data in accordance with § 60.13(e)(2).
(iii) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported in a deviation report.
(iv) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during out-of-control periods must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods that do not coincide with a monitoring system malfunction constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(v) You must use all the data collected during all periods except those periods specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iii) and (b)(6)(iv) of this section in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(7) If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must:
(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system according to the site-specific monitoring plan developed in § 60.58b(p)(1) through (p)(6), (p)(9), (p)(10), and (q).
(ii) Collect data according to § 60.58b(p)(5) and paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(c)
Air pollution control device inspections.
You must conduct air pollution control device inspections that include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Inspect air pollution control device(s) for proper operation.
(2) Generally observe that the equipment is maintained in good operating condition.
(3) Develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 60.4880. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i).
(d)
Bypass stack.
Use of the bypass stack at any time that sewage sludge is being charged to the SSI unit is an emissions standards deviation for all pollutants listed in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test invalidates the performance test.
§ 60.4905
What are the monitoring and calibration requirements for compliance with my operating limits?
(a) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain the continuous parameter monitoring systems according
to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Meet the following general requirements for flow, pressure, pH, and operating temperature measurement devices:
(i) You must collect data using the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected SSI unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions that occur during periods specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). Any such periods that you do not collect data using the continuous monitoring system constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(ii) You must collect continuous parameter monitoring system data in accordance with § 60.13(e)(2).
(iii) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported in your annual deviation report.
(iv) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during out-of-control periods must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods that do not coincide with a monitoring system malfunction, as defined in § 60.4930, constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(v) You must use all the data collected during all periods except those periods specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(1)(iv) of this section in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(vi) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.
(2) Operate and maintain your continuous monitoring system according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880. Additionally:
(i) For carrier gas flow rate monitors (for activated carbon injection), during the performance test conducted pursuant to § 60.4885, you must demonstrate that the system is maintained within ±5 percent accuracy, according to the procedures in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.
(ii) For carrier gas pressure drop monitors (for activated carbon injection), during the performance test conducted pursuant to § 60.4885, you must demonstrate that the system is maintained within ±5 percent accuracy.
(b) You must operate and maintain your bag leak detection system in continuous operation according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880. Additionally:
(1) For positive pressure fabric filter systems that do not duct all compartments of cells to a common stack, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.
(2) Where multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(3) You must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 8 hours of the alarm, and you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 24 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate matter emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate matter emissions.
(c) You must operate and maintain the continuous parameter monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in continuous operation according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880.
(d) If your SSI unit has a bypass stack, you must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device or method for measuring the use of the bypass stack including date, time, and duration.

# Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 60.4910
What records must I keep?
You must maintain the items (as applicable) specified in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section for a period of at least 5 years. All records must be available on site in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
(a)
Date.
Calendar date of each record.
(b)
Siting.
All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of §§ 60.4800 and 60.4805.
(c)
Operator Training.
Documentation of the operator training procedures and records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. You must make available and readily accessible at the facility at all times for all SSI unit operators the documentation specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1) Documentation of the following operator training procedures and information:
(i) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart.
(ii) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding sewage sludge.
(iii) Incinerator startup, shutdown, and malfunction preventative and corrective procedures.
(iv) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels.
(v) Procedures for operating the incinerator and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart.
(vi) Monitoring procedures for demonstrating compliance with the incinerator operating limits.
(vii) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(viii) Procedures for handling ash.
(ix) A list of the materials burned during the performance test, if in addition to sewage sludge.
(x) For each qualified operator and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.4835(a), the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.
(2) Records showing the names of SSI unit operators and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.4835(a), as follows:
(i) Records showing the names of SSI unit operators and other plant personnel who have completed review of the information in paragraph (c)(1) of this section as required by § 60.4840(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(ii) Records showing the names of the SSI operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.4810, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.4820, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.4825 or § 60.4830. Records must include documentation of training, including the dates of their initial qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(3) Records showing the periods when no qualified operators were accessible for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks, as required in § 60.4835(a).
(4) Records showing the periods when no qualified operators were accessible for 2 weeks or more along with copies of reports submitted as required in § 60.4835(b).
(d)
Air pollution control device inspections.
Records of the results of initial and annual air pollution control device inspections conducted as specified in §§ 60.4875 and 60.4900(c), including any required maintenance and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.
(e)
Performance test reports.
(1) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and standards and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable.
(2) Retain a copy of the complete performance test report, including calculations.
(3) Keep a record of the hourly dry sludge feed rate measured during performance test runs, as specified in § 60.4900(a)(2)(i).
(4) Keep any necessary records to demonstrate that the performance test was conducted under conditions representative of normal operations, including a record of the moisture content measured as required in § 60.4900(a)(2)(ii) for each grab sample taken of the sewage sludge burned during the performance test.
(f)
Continuous monitoring data.
Records of the following data, as applicable:
(1) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, all 1-hour average concentrations of particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans total mass basis, mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead emissions.
(2) For continuous automated sampling systems, all average concentrations measured for mercury and dioxins/furans total mass basis at the frequencies specified in your monitoring plan.
(3) For continuous parameter monitoring systems:
(i) All 1-hour average values recorded for the following operating parameters, as applicable:
(A) Combustion chamber operating temperature (or afterburner temperature).
(B) If a wet scrubber is used to comply with the rule, pressure drop across each wet scrubber system, liquid flow rate to each wet scrubber used to comply with the emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for particulate matter, cadmium, or lead, and scrubber liquid flow rate and scrubber liquid pH for each wet scrubber used to comply with an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for sulfur dioxide or hydrogen chloride.
(C) If an electrostatic precipitator is used to comply with the rule, secondary voltage and secondary amperage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates, and effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the wet electrostatic precipitator.
(D) If activated carbon injection is used to comply with the rule, sorbent flow rate and carrier gas flow rate or pressure drop, as applicable.
(ii) All daily average values recorded for the feed rate and moisture content of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator, monitored and calculated as specified in § 60.4850(f).
(iii) If a fabric filter is used to comply with the rule, the date, time, and duration of each alarm and the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm sounds, calculated as specified in § 60.4890.
(iv) For other control devices for which you must establish operating limits under § 60.4855, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits, at the frequencies specified in your monitoring plan.
(g)
Other records for continuous monitoring systems.
You must keep the following records, as applicable:
(1) Keep records of any notifications to the Administrator in § 60.4915(h)(1) of starting or stopping use of a continuous monitoring system for determining compliance with any emissions limit.
(2) Keep records of any requests under § 60.4900(b)(5) that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen.
(3) If activated carbon injection is used to comply with the rule, the type of sorbent used and any changes in the type of sorbent used.
(h)
Deviation Reports.
Records of any deviation reports submitted under § 60.4915(e) and (f).
(i)
Equipment specifications and operation and maintenance requirements.
Equipment specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements received from vendors for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.
(j)
Inspections, calibrations, and validation checks of monitoring devices.
Records of inspections, calibrations, and validations checks of any monitoring devices as required under §§ 60.4900 and 60.4905.
(k)
Monitoring plan and performance evaluations for continuous monitoring systems.
Records of the monitoring plans required under § 60.4880, and records of performance evaluations required under § 60.4885(b)(5).
(l)
Less frequent testing.
If, consistent with 60.4885(a)(3), you elect to conduct performance tests less frequently than annually, you must keep annual records that document that your emissions in the 2 previous consecutive years were at or below 75 percent of the applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, and document that there were no changes in source operations or air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past 2 years.
(m)
Use of bypass stack.
Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times, and durations as required under § 60.4905(d).
(n) If a malfunction occurs, you must keep a record of the information submitted in your annual report in § 60.4915(d)(16).
§ 60.4915
What reports must I submit?
You must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. See Table 5 to this subpart for a summary of these reports.
(a)
Notification of construction.
You must submit a notification prior to commencing construction that includes the four items listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section:
(1) A statement of intent to construct.
(2) The anticipated date of commencement of construction.
(3) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.4805.
(4) Anticipated date of initial startup.
(b)
Notification of initial startup.
You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section prior to initial startup:
(1) The maximum design dry sludge burning capacity.
(2) The anticipated and permitted maximum dry sludge feed rate.
(3) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits specified in § 60.4855.
(4) The anticipated date of initial startup.
(5) The site-specific monitoring plan required under § 60.4880, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system.
(6) The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system required under § 60.4880, at least 60 days before your initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with your fugitive ash emission limit.
(c)
Initial compliance report.
You must submit the following information no later than 60 days following the initial performance test.
(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report.
(4) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained by using the test methods specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(5) If an initial performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that initial performance evaluation.
(6) The values for the site-specific operating limits established pursuant to §§ 60.4850 and 60.4855 and the calculations and methods, as applicable, used to establish each operating limit.
(7) If you are using a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, documentation that a bag leak detection system has been installed and is being operated, calibrated, and maintained as required by § 60.4850(b).
(8) The results of the initial air pollution control device inspection required
in § 60.4875, including a description of repairs.
(d)
Annual compliance report.
You must submit an annual compliance report that includes the items listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(16) of this section for the reporting period specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. You must submit your first annual compliance report no later than 12 months following the submission of the initial compliance report in paragraph (c) of this section. You must submit subsequent annual compliance reports no more than 12 months following the previous annual compliance report. (You may be required to submit these reports (or additional compliance information) more frequently by the title V operating permit required in § 60.4920.)
(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that performance test.
(i) If operating limits were established during the performance test, include the value for each operating limit and, as applicable, the method used to establish each operating limit, including calculations.
(ii) If activated carbon is used during the performance test, include the type of activated carbon used.
(5) For each pollutant and operating parameter recorded using a continuous monitoring system, the highest average value and lowest average value recorded during the reporting period, as follows:
(i) For continuous emission monitoring systems and continuous automated sampling systems, report the highest and lowest 24-hour average emission value.
(ii) For continuous parameter monitoring systems, report the following values:
(A) For all operating parameters except scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 12-hour average values.
(B) For scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 3-hour average values.
(6) If there are no deviations during the reporting period from any emission limit, emission standard, or operating limit that applies to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, emission standard, or operating limits.
(7) Information for bag leak detection systems recorded under § 60.4910(f)(3)(iii).
(8) If a performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that performance evaluation. If new operating limits were established during the performance evaluation, include your calculations for establishing those operating limits.
(9) If you elect to conduct performance tests less frequently as allowed in § 60.4885(a)(3) and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must include the dates of the last two performance tests, a comparison of the emission level you achieved in the last two performance tests to the 75 percent emission limit threshold specified in § 60.4885(a)(3), and a statement as to whether there have been any process changes and whether the process change resulted in an increase in emissions.
(10) Documentation of periods when all qualified SSI unit operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks.
(11) Results of annual air pollution control device inspections recorded under § 60.4910(d) for the reporting period, including a description of repairs.
(12) If there were no periods during the reporting period when your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction.
(13) If there were no periods during the reporting period when a continuous monitoring system was out of control, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring system was out of control.
(14) If there were no operator training deviations, a statement that there were no such deviations during the reporting period.
(15) If you did not make revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a statement that you did not make any revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period. If you made revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a copy of the revised plan.
(16) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction that occurred during the reporting period and that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(e)
Deviation reports.
(1) You must submit a deviation report if:
(i) Any recorded operating parameter level, based on the averaging time specified in Table 3 to this subpart, is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart.
(ii) The bag leak detection system alarm sounds for more than 5 percent of the operating time for the 6-month reporting period.
(iii) Any recorded 24-hour block average emissions level is above the emission limit, if a continuous monitoring system is used to comply with an emission limit.
(iv) There are visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system for more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period.
(v) A performance test was conducted that deviated from any emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(vi) A continuous monitoring system was out of control.
(vii) You had a malfunction (
e.g.
, continuous monitoring system malfunction) that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limit to be exceeded.
(2) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).
(3) For each deviation where you are using a continuous monitoring system to comply with an associated emission limit or operating limit, report the items described in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(viii) of this section.
(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(iii) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.
(iv) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(v) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:
(A) Emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, and your corrective actions.
(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.
(vi) Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents.
(vii) A copy of the operating parameter monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.
(viii) If there were periods during which the continuous monitoring system malfunctioned or was out of control, you must include the following information for each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit:
(A) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(B) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(C) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out of control, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(D) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of malfunction, during a period when the system as out of control, or during another period.
(E) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting
period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(F) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(G) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the SSI unit at which the continuous monitoring system downtime occurred during that reporting period.
(H) An identification of each parameter and pollutant that was monitored at the SSI unit.
(I) A brief description of the SSI unit.
(J) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.
(K) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.
(L) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
(4) For each deviation where you are not using a continuous monitoring system to comply with the associated emission limit or operating limit, report the following items:
(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(iii) The total operating time of each affected SSI during the reporting period.
(iv) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.
(v) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(vi) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:
(A) Emission limits, emission standard, and operating limits, and your corrective actions.
(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.
(vii) A copy of any performance test report that showed a deviation from the emission limits or standard.
(viii) A brief description of any malfunction reported in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, including a description of actions taken during the malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with 60.11(d) and to correct the malfunction.
(f)
Qualified operator deviation.
(1) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) through (f)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
(A) A statement of what caused the deviation.
(B) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(C) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.
(ii) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii)(A) through (f)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(B) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(C) Request for approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the SSI unit.
(2) If your unit was shut down by the Administrator, under the provisions of § 60.4835(b)(2)(i), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator, you must notify the Administrator within 5 days of meeting § 60.4835(b)(2)(ii) that you are resuming operation.
(g)
Notification of a force majeure.
If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure:
(1) You must notify the Administrator, in writing as soon as practicable following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known that the event may cause
or caused a delay in conducting a performance test beyond the regulatory deadline, but the notification must occur before the performance test deadline unless the initial force majeure or a subsequent force majeure event delays the notice, and in such cases, the notification must occur as soon as practicable.
(2) You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in conducting the performance test beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay; and identify a date by which you propose to conduct the performance test.
(h)
Other notifications and reports required.
You must submit other notifications as provided by § 60.7 and as follows:
(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting or stopping use of a continuous monitoring system for determining compliance with any emission limit.
(2) You must notify the Administrator at least 30 days prior to any performance test conducted to comply with the provisions of this subpart, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(3) As specified in § 60.4900(a)(8), you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the date of a rescheduled performance test for which notification was previously made in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(i)
Report submission form.
(1) Submit initial, annual, and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates.
(2) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2, conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (
i.e.,
reference method) data and performance test (
i.e.,
compliance test) data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (
see http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert__tool.html/
) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(j)
Changing report dates.
If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semi-annual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.

# Title V Operating Permits
§ 60.4920
Am I required to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit for my unit?
Yes, if you are subject to this subpart, you are required to apply for and obtain a Title V operating permit unless you meet the relevant requirements for an exemption specified in § 60.4780.
§ 60.4925
When must I submit a title V permit application for my new SSI unit?
(a) If your new SSI unit subject to this subpart is not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, a complete Title V permit application must be submitted on or before one of the dates specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. (
See
section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i) and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i)).
(1) For a SSI unit that commenced operation as a new SSI unit as of March 21, 2011, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than March 21, 2012.
(2) For a SSI unit that does not commence operation as a new SSI unit until after March 21, 2011, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than 12 months after the date the unit commences operation as a new source.
(b) If your new SSI unit subject to this subpart is subject to title V as a result of some triggering requirement(s) other than this subpart (for example, a unit subject to this subpart may be a major source or part of a major source), then your unit may be required to apply for a title V permit prior to the deadlines specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If more than one requirement triggers a source's obligation to apply for a title V permit, the 12-month timeframe for filing a
title V permit application is triggered by the requirement that first causes the source to be subject to title V. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i), 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b), and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(c) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 40 CFR 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. (See sections 503(d) and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 40 CFR 71.7(b).)

# Definitions
§ 60.4930
What definitions must I know?
Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and § 60.2.
Affected source
means a sewage sludge incineration unit as defined in § 60.4930.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Auxiliary fuel
means natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.
Bag leak detection system
means an instrument that is capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (
i.e.,
baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Bypass stack
means a device used for discharging combustion gases to avoid severe damage to the air pollution control device or other equipment.
Calendar year
means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.
Continuous automated sampling system
means the total equipment and procedures for automated sample collection and sample recovery/analysis to determine a pollutant concentration or emission rate by collecting a single integrated sample(s) or multiple integrated sample(s) of the pollutant (or diluent gas) for subsequent on- or off-site analysis; integrated sample(s) collected are representative of the emissions for the sample time as specified by the applicable requirement.
Continuous emissions monitoring system
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility.
Continuous monitoring system
(CMS) means a continuous emissions monitoring system, continuous automated sampling system, continuous parameter monitoring system, or other manual or automatic monitoring that is used for demonstrating compliance with an applicable regulation on a continuous basis as defined by this subpart. The term refers to the total equipment used to sample and condition (if applicable), to analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters.
Continuous parameter monitoring system
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording operating conditions associated with air pollution control device systems (
e.g.,
operating temperature, pressure, and power).
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements.
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Dioxins/furans
means tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Electrostatic precipitator or wet electrostatic precipitator
means an air pollution control device that uses both electrical forces and, if applicable, water to remove pollutants in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack.
Existing sewage sludge incineration unit
means a sewage sludge incineration unit the construction of which is commenced on or before October 14, 2010.
Fabric filter
means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse.
Fluidized bed incinerator
means an enclosed device in which organic matter and inorganic matter in sewage sludge are combusted in a bed of particles suspended in the combustion chamber gas.
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Modification
means a change to an existing SSI unit later than September 21, 2011 and that meets one of two criteria:
(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the SSI unit (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). To determine what systems are within the boundary of the SSI unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of SSI unit.
(2) Any physical change in the SSI unit or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.
Modified sewage sludge incineration (SSI) unit
means an existing SSI unit that undergoes a modification, as defined in this section.
Multiple hearth incinerator
means a circular steel furnace that contains a number of solid refractory hearths and a central rotating shaft; rabble arms that are designed to slowly rake the sludge on the hearth are attached to the rotating shaft. Dewatered sludge enters at the top and proceeds downward through the furnace from hearth to hearth, pushed along by the rabble arms.
New sewage sludge incineration unit
means a SSI unit the construction of which is commenced after October 14, 2010 which would be applicable to such unit or a modified solid waste incineration unit.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any amount of sewage sludge is combusted at any time in the SSI unit.
Particulate matter
means filterable particulate matter emitted from SSI units as measured by Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Methods 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8.
Power input to the electrostatic precipitator
means the product of the test-run average secondary voltage and the test-run average secondary amperage to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates.
Process change
means a significant permit revision, but only with respect to those pollutant-specific emission units for which the proposed permit revision is applicable, including but not limited to:
(1) A change in the process employed at the wastewater treatment facility associated with the affected SSI unit (
e.g.,
the addition of tertiary treatment at the facility, which changes the method used for disposing of process solids and processing of the sludge prior to incineration).
(2) A change in the air pollution control devices used to comply with the emission limits for the affected SSI unit (
e.g.,
change in the sorbent used for activated carbon injection).
Sewage sludge
means solid, semi-solid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. Sewage sludge includes, but is not limited to, domestic septage; scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes; and a material derived from sewage sludge. Sewage sludge does not include ash generated during the firing of sewage
sludge in a sewage sludge incineration unit or grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works.
Sewage sludge feed rate
means the rate at which sewage sludge is fed into the incinerator unit.
Sewage sludge incineration (SSI) unit
means an incineration unit combusting sewage sludge for the purpose of reducing the volume of the sewage sludge by removing combustible matter. Sewage sludge incineration unit designs include fluidized bed and multiple hearth. A SSI unit also includes, but is not limited to, the sewage sludge feed system, auxiliary fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The SSI unit includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system. The combustion unit bottom ash system ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The SSI unit does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack.
Shutdown
means the period of time after all sewage sludge has been combusted in the primary chamber.
Solid waste
means any garbage, refuse, sewage sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342), or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014).
Standard conditions,
when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).
Startup
means the period of time between the activation, including the firing of fuels (
e.g.,
natural gas or distillate oil), of the system and the first feed to the unit.
Toxic equivalency
means the product of the concentration of an individual dioxin isomer in an environmental mixture and the corresponding estimate of the compound-specific toxicity relative to tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin, referred to as the toxic equivalency factor for that compound. Table 4 to this subpart lists the toxic equivalency factors.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquid to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
You
means the owner or operator of a SSI unit that meets the criteria in § 60.4770.
Pt. 60, Subpt. LLLL, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart LLLL of Part 60—Emission Limits and Standards for New Fluidized Bed Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limit
a
Using these
averaging methods and
minimum sampling
volumes or durations
And determining
compliance using this method
Particulate matter
9.6 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3; Method 26A or Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Hydrogen chloride
0.24 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
27 parts per million by dry volume
24-hour block average (using 1-hour averages of data). For determining compliance with the carbon monoxide concentration limit using carbon monoxide CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured carbon monoxide concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other carbon monoxide concentrations (corrected to 7 percent oxygen) to determine the 24-hour average value
Continuous emissions monitoring system. (Performance Specification 4B of this part, using a low-range span of 100 ppm and a high-range span of 1000 ppm, and a RA of 0.5 ppm instead of 5 ppm specified in section 13.2. For the cylinder gas audit of Procedure 1, ±15% or 0.5 whichever is greater).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis); or
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
b
0.013 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass basis); or
0.0044 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (toxic equivalency basis)
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 3 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Mercury
0.0010 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008),
c
collect a minimum volume of 3 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
c
Oxides of nitrogen
30 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Sulfur dioxide
5.3 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 6, collect a minimum volume of 100 liters per run. For Method 6C, sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 40, appendix A-4; or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981.
c
Cadmium
0.0011 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Lead
0.00062 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 3 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8. Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part).
a
All emission limits are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
You have the option to comply with either the dioxin/furan emission limit on a total mass basis or the dioxin/furan emission limit on a toxic equivalency basis.
c
Incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. LLLL, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart LLLL of Part 60—Emission Limits and Standards for New Multiple Hearth Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limit
a
Using these averaging methods and minimum sampling volumes or durations
And determining compliance using this method
Particulate matter
60 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 0.75 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3; Method 26A or Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Hydrogen chloride
1.2 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 26, collect a minimum volume of 200 liters per run. For Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
52 parts per million by dry volume
24-hour block average (using 1-hour averages of data)
Continuous emissions monitoring system. (Performance Specification 4B of this part, using a low-range span of 100 ppm and a high-range span of 1000 ppm, and a relative accuracy of 0.5 ppm instead of 5 ppm specified in section 13.2. For the cylinder gas audit of Procedure 1, ±15% or 0.5 whichever is greater).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis); or
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
b
0.045 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass basis); or
0.0022 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (toxic equivalency basis)
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 3 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Mercury
0.15 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008),
c
collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
c
Oxides of nitrogen
210 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Sulfur dioxide
26 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 6, collect a minimum volume of 200 liters per run. For Method 6C, collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 40, appendix A-4; or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981.
c
Cadmium
0.0024 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Lead
0.0035 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8. Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part).
a
All emission limits are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
You have the option to comply with either the dioxin/furan emission limit on a total mass basis or the dioxin/furan emission limit on a toxic equivalency basis.
c
Incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. LLLL, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart LLLL of Part 60—Operating Parameters for New Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
a
For these operating parameters
You must establish these operating limits
And monitor using these minimum frequencies
Data measurement
Data
recording
b
Data
averaging period for compliance
All sewage sludge incineration units
Combustion chamber operating temperature or afterburner temperature
Minimum combustion chamber operating temperature or afterburner temperature
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Site-specific operating requirements
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable.
Scrubber
Pressure drop across each wet scrubber
Minimum pressure drop
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Scrubber liquid flow rate
Minimum flow rate
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Scrubber liquid pH
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block.
Fabric Filter
Alarm time of the bag leak detection system alarm
Maximum alarm time of the bag leak detection system alarm (this operating limit is provided in § 60.4850 and is not established on a site-specific basis).
Electrostatic precipitator
Secondary voltage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Minimum power input to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Continuous
Hourly
12-hour block.
Secondary amperage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator
Minimum effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator
Hourly
Hourly
12-hour block.
Activated carbon injection
Mercury sorbent injection rate
Minimum mercury sorbent injection rate
Hourly
Hourly
12-hour block.
Dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate
Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate
Carrier gas flow rate or carrier gas pressure drop
Minimum carrier gas flow rate or minimum carrier gas pressure drop
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
a
As specified in § 60.4870, you may use a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system in lieu of establishing certain operating limits.
b
This recording time refers to the minimum frequency that the continuous monitor or other measuring device initially records data. For all data recorded every 15 minutes, you must calculate hourly arithmetic averages. For all parameters, you use hourly averages to calculate the 12-hour or 3-hour block average specified in this table for demonstrating compliance. You maintain records of 1-hour averages.
Pt. 60, Subpt. LLLL, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart LLLL of Part 60—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan isomer
Toxic
equivalency
factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.0003
Pt. 60, Subpt. LLLL, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart LLLL of Part 60—Summary of Reporting Requirements for New Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
a
Report
Due date
Contents
Reference
Notification of construction
Prior to commencing construction
1. Statement of intent to construct
2. Anticipated date of commencement of construction.
3. Documentation for siting requirements.
4. Anticipated date of initial startup.
§ 60.4915(a).
Notification of initial startup
Prior to initial startup
1. Maximum design dry sewage sludge burning capacity
2. Anticipated and permitted maximum feed rate.
3. If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits.
4. Anticipated date of initial startup.
5. Site-specific monitoring plan.
6. The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system.
§ 60.4915(b).
Initial compliance report
No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
1. Company name and address
2. Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
3. Date of report.
4. Complete test report for the initial performance test.
5. Results of CMS
b
performance evaluation.
6. The values for the site-specific operating limits and the calculations and methods, as applicable, used to establish each operating limit.
7. Documentation of installation of bag leak detection system for fabric filter.
8. Results of initial air pollution control device inspection, including a description of repairs.
§ 60.4915(c).
Annual compliance report
No later than 12 months following the submission of the initial compliance report; subsequent reports are to be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report
1. Company name and address
2. Statement and signature by responsible official.
3. Date and beginning and ending dates of report.
4. If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of the test, including any new operating limits and associated calculations and the type of activated carbon used, if applicable.
5. For each pollutant and operating parameter recorded using a CMS, the highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average, as applicable.
6. If no deviations from emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits occurred, a statement that no deviations occurred.
7. If a fabric filter is used, the date, time, and duration of alarms.
8. If a performance evaluation of a CMS was conducted, the results, including any new operating limits and their associated calculations.
9. If you met the requirements of § 60.4885(a)(3) and did not conduct a performance test, include the dates of the last three performance tests, a comparison to the 50 percent emission limit threshold of the emission level achieved in the last three performance tests, and a statement as to whether there have been any process changes.
10. Documentation of periods when all qualified SSI unit operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours but less than 2 weeks.
11. Results of annual pollutions control device inspections, including description of repairs.
12. If there were no periods during which your CMSs had malfunctions, a statement that there were no periods during which your CMSs had malfunctions.
13. If there were no periods during which your CMSs were out of control, a statement that there were no periods during which your CMSs were out of control.
14. If there were no operator training deviations, a statement that there were no such deviations.
15. Information on monitoring plan revisions, including a copy of any revised monitoring plan.
§§ 60.4915(d).
Deviation report (deviations from emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits, as specified in § 60.4915(e)(1))
By August 1 of a calendar year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year; by February 1 of a calendar year for data collected during the second half of the calendar year
If using a CMS:
1. Company name and address
2. Statement by a responsible official.
3. The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits or operating limits.
4. The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
5. Duration and cause of each deviation.
6. Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents.
7. A copy of the operating parameter monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.
8. For periods of CMS malfunction or when a CMS was out of control, you must include the information specified in § 60.4915(e)(3)(viii).
If not using a CMS:
1. Company name and address
2. Statement by a responsible official.
3. The total operating time of each affected SSI.
4. The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standard, or operating limits.
5. The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
6. Duration and cause of each deviation.
7. A copy of any performance test report that showed a deviation from the emission limits or standards.
8. A brief description of any malfunction, a description of actions taken during the malfunction to minimize emissions, and corrective action taken.
§ 60.4915(e).
Notification of qualified operator deviation (if all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more)
Within 10 days of deviation
1. Statement of cause of deviation
2. Description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator will be available
3. The date when a qualified operator will be accessible.
§ 60.4915(f).
Notification of status of qualified operator deviation
Every 4 weeks following notification of deviation
1. Description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible
2. The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
3. Request for approval to continue operation.
§ 60.4915(f).
Notification of resumed operation following shutdown (due to qualified operator deviation and as specified in § 60.4835(b)(2)(i)
Within 5 days of obtaining a qualified operator and resuming operation
1. Notification that you have obtained a qualified operator and are resuming operation
§ 60.4915(f).
Notification of a force majeure
As soon as practicable following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known that the event may cause or caused a delay in conducting a performance test beyond the regulatory deadline; the notification must occur before the performance test deadline unless the initial force majeure or a subsequent force majeure event delays the notice, and in such cases, the notification must occur as soon as practicable
1. Description of the force majeure event
2. Rationale for attributing the delay in conducting the performance test beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure.
3. Description of the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay.
4. Identification of the date by which you propose to conduct the performance test.
§ 60.4915(g).
Notification of intent to start or stop use of a CMS
1 month before starting or stopping use of a CMS
1. Intent to start or stop use of a CMS
§ 60.4915(h).
Notification of intent to conduct a performance test
At least 30 days prior to the performance test
1. Intent to conduct a performance test to comply with this subpart
Notification of intent to conduct a rescheduled performance test
At least 7 days prior to the date of a rescheduled performance test
1. Intent to conduct a rescheduled performance test to comply with this subpart
a
This table is only a summary, see the referenced sections of the rule for the complete requirements.
b
CMS means continuous monitoring system.

# Subpart MMMM—Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units

# Source:
76 FR 15404, Mar. 21, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction
§ 60.5000
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes emission guidelines and compliance schedules for the control of emissions from sewage sludge incineration (SSI) units. The pollutants addressed by these emission guidelines are listed in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart. These emission guidelines are developed in accordance with sections 111(d) and 129 of the Clean Air Act and subpart B of this part. To the extent any requirement of this subpart is inconsistent with the requirements of subpart A of this part, the requirements of this subpart will apply.
§ 60.5005
Am I affected by this subpart?
(a) If you are the Administrator of an air quality program in a state or United States protectorate with one or more SSI units that commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010, you must submit a state plan to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that implements the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.
(b) You must submit the state plan to EPA by March 21, 2012.
§ 60.5010
Is a state plan required for all states?
No. You are not required to submit a state plan if there are no SSI units for which construction commenced on or before October 14, 2010 in your state, and you submit a negative declaration letter in place of the state plan.
§ 60.5015
What must I include in my state plan?
(a) You must include the nine items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9) of this section in your state plan.
(1) Inventory of affected SSI units, including those that have ceased operation but have not been dismantled.
(2) Inventory of emissions from affected SSI units in your state.
(3) Compliance schedules for each affected SSI unit.
(4) Emission limits, emission standards, operator training and qualification requirements, and operating limits for affected SSI units that are at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.
(5) Performance testing, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
(6) Certification that the hearing on the state plan was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission.
(7) Provision for state progress reports to EPA.
(8) Identification of enforceable state mechanisms that you selected for implementing the emission guidelines of this subpart.
(9) Demonstration of your state's legal authority to carry out the sections 111(d) and 129 state plan.
(b) Your state plan may deviate from the format and content of the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. However, if your state plan does deviate in content, you must demonstrate that your state plan is at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Your state plan must address regulatory applicability, increments of progress for retrofit, operator training and qualification, emission limits and standards, performance testing, operating limits, monitoring, and recordkeeping and reporting.
(c) You must follow the requirements of subpart B of this part (Adoption and Submittal of state plans for Designated Facilities) in your state plan.
§ 60.5020
Is there an approval process for my state plan?
Yes. The EPA will review your state plan according to § 60.27.
§ 60.5025
What if my state plan is not approvable?
If you do not submit an approvable state plan (or a negative declaration letter) by March 21, 2013, EPA will develop a Federal plan according to § 60.27 to implement the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Owners and operators of SSI units not covered by an approved state plan must comply with the Federal plan. The Federal plan is an interim action and will be automatically withdrawn when your state plan is approved.
§ 60.5030
Is there an approval process for a negative declaration letter?
No. The EPA has no formal review process for negative declaration letters. Once your negative declaration letter has been received, EPA will place a copy in the public docket and publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
If, at a later date, a SSI unit for which construction commenced on or before October 14, 2010 is found in your state, the Federal plan implementing the emission guidelines contained in this subpart would automatically apply to that SSI unit until your state plan is approved.
§ 60.5035
What compliance schedule must I include in my state plan?
(a) For SSI units that commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010, your state plan must include compliance schedules that require SSI units to achieve final compliance as expeditiously as practicable after approval of the state plan but not later than the earlier of the two dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(1) March 21, 2016.
(2) Three years after the effective date of state plan approval.
(b) For compliance schedules that extend more than 1 year following the effective date of state plan approval, state plans must include dates for enforceable increments of progress as specified in § 60.5090.
§ 60.5040
Are there any state plan requirements for this subpart that apply instead of the requirements specified in subpart B?
Yes. Subpart B establishes general requirements for developing and processing section 111(d) state plans. This subpart applies instead of the requirements in subpart B of this part, as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) State plans developed to implement this subpart must be as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. State plans must require all SSI units to comply by the dates specified in § 60.5035. This applies instead of the option for case-by-case less stringent emission standards and longer compliance schedules in § 60.24(f).
(b) State plans developed to implement this subpart are required to include two increments of progress for the affected SSI units. These two minimum increments are the final control plan submittal date and final compliance date in § 60.21(h)(1) and (5). This applies instead of the requirement of § 60.24(e)(1) that would require a state plan to include all five increments of progress for all SSI units.
§ 60.5045
In lieu of a state plan submittal, are there other acceptable option(s) for a state to meet its section 111(d)/129 (b)(2) obligations?
Yes, a state may meet its Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 obligations by submitting an acceptable written request for delegation of the Federal plan that meets the requirements of this section. This is the only other option for a state to meet its section 111(d)/129 obligations.
(a) An acceptable Federal plan delegation request must include the following:
(1) A demonstration of adequate resources and legal authority to administer and enforce the Federal plan.
(2) The items under § 60.5015(a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(7).
(3) Certification that the hearing on the state delegation request, similar to the hearing for a state plan submittal, was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission.
(4) A commitment to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator that sets forth the terms, conditions, and effective date of the delegation and that serves as the mechanism for the transfer of authority. Additional guidance and information is given in EPA's Delegation Manual, Item 7-139, Implementation and Enforcement of 111(d)(2) and 111(d)/(2)/129 (b)(3) Federal plans.
(b) A state with an already approved SSI Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 state plan is not precluded from receiving EPA approval of a delegation request for the revised Federal plan, provided the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met, and at the time of the delegation request, the state also requests withdrawal of EPA's previous state plan approval.
(c) A state's Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 obligations are separate from its obligations under title V of the Clean Air Act.
§ 60.5050
What authorities will not be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies?
The authorities that will not be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a) Approval of alternatives to the emission limits and standards in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart and operating limits established under § 60.5175 or § 60.5190.
(b) Approval of major alternatives to test methods.
(c) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring.
(d) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting.
(e) The requirements in § 60.5175.
(f) The requirements in § 60.5155(b)(2).
(g) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).
§ 60.5055
Does this subpart directly affect SSI unit owners and operators in my state?
(a) No. This subpart does not directly affect SSI unit owners and operators in your state. However, SSI unit owners and operators must comply with the state plan you develop to implement the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. States may choose to incorporate the model rule text directly in their state plan.
(b) If you do not submit an approvable plan to implement and enforce the guidelines contained in this subpart by March 21, 2012, EPA will implement and enforce a Federal plan, as provided in § 60.5025, to ensure that each unit within your state that commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010 reaches compliance with all the provisions of this subpart by the dates specified in § 60.5035.

# Applicability of State Plans
§ 60.5060
What SSI units must I address in my state plan?
(a) Your state plan must address SSI units that meet all three criteria described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) SSI units in your state that commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010.
(2) SSI units that meet the definition of a SSI unit as defined in § 60.5250.
(3) SSI units not exempt under § 60.5065.
(b) If the owner or operator of a SSI unit makes changes that meet the definition of modification after September
21, 2011, the SSI unit becomes subject to subpart LLLL of this part and the state plan no longer applies to that unit.
(c) If the owner or operator of a SSI unit makes physical or operational changes to a SSI unit for which construction commenced on or before September 21, 2011 primarily to comply with your state plan, subpart LLLL of this part does not apply to that unit. Such changes do not qualify as modifications under subpart LLLL of this part.
§ 60.5065
What SSI units are exempt from my state plan?
This subpart exempts combustion units that incinerate sewage sludge and are not located at a wastewater treatment facility designed to treat domestic sewage sludge. These units may be subject to another subpart of this part (
e.g.,
subpart CCCC of this part). The owner or operator of such a combustion unit must notify the Administrator of an exemption claim under this section.

# Use of Model Rule
§ 60.5070
What is the “model rule” in this subpart?
(a) The model rule is the portion of these emission guidelines (§§ 60.5085 through 60.5250) that addresses the regulatory requirements applicable to SSI units. The model rule provides these requirements in regulation format. You must develop a state plan that is at least as protective as the model rule. You may use the model rule language as part of your state plan. Alternative language may be used in your state plan if you demonstrate that the alternative language is at least as protective as the model rule contained in this subpart.
(b) In the model rule of §§ 60.5085 through 60.5250, “you” and “Administrator” have the meaning specified in § 60.5250.
§ 60.5075
How does the model rule relate to the required elements of my state plan?
Use the model rule to satisfy the state plan requirements specified in § 60.5015(a)(3) through (a)(5).
§ 60.5080
What are the principal components of the model rule?
The model rule contains the nine major components listed in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(a) Increments of progress toward compliance.
(b) Operator training and qualification.
(c) Emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits.
(d) Initial compliance requirements.
(e) Continuous compliance requirements.
(f) Performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements.
(g) Recordkeeping and reporting.
(h) Definitions.
(i) Tables.

# Model Rule—Increments of Progress
§ 60.5085
What are my requirements for meeting increments of progress and achieving final compliance?
If you plan to achieve compliance more than 1 year following the effective date of state plan approval, you must meet the two increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Submit a final control plan.
(b) Achieve final compliance.
§ 60.5090
When must I complete each increment of progress?
Table 1 to this subpart specifies compliance dates for each increment of progress.
§ 60.5095
What must I include in the notifications of achievement of increments of progress?
Your notification of achievement of increments of progress must include the three items specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Notification that the increment of progress has been achieved.
(b) Any items required to be submitted with each increment of progress.
(c) Signature of the owner or operator of the SSI unit.
§ 60.5100
When must I submit the notifications of achievement of increments of progress?
Notifications for achieving increments of progress must be postmarked no later than 10 business days after the compliance date for the increment.
§ 60.5105
What if I do not meet an increment of progress?
If you fail to meet an increment of progress, you must submit a notification to the Administrator postmarked within 10 business days after the date for that increment of progress in Table 1 to this subpart. You must inform the Administrator that you did not meet the increment, and you must continue to submit reports each subsequent calendar month until the increment of progress is met.
§ 60.5110
How do I comply with the increment of progress for submittal of a control plan?
For your control plan increment of progress, you must satisfy the two requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Submit the final control plan that includes the four items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1) A description of the devices for air pollution control and process changes that you will use to comply with the emission limits and standards and other requirements of this subpart.
(2) The type(s) of waste to be burned, if waste other than sewage sludge is burned in the unit.
(3) The maximum design sewage sludge burning capacity.
(4) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits under § 60.5175.
(b) Maintain an onsite copy of the final control plan.
§ 60.5115
How do I comply with the increment of progress for achieving final compliance?
For the final compliance increment of progress, you must complete all process changes and retrofit construction of control devices, as specified in the final control plan, so that, if the affected SSI unit is brought online, all necessary process changes and air pollution control devices would operate as designed.
§ 60.5120
What must I do if I close my SSI unit and then restart it?
(a) If you close your SSI unit but will restart it prior to the final compliance date in your state plan, you must meet the increments of progress specified in § 60.5085.
(b) If you close your SSI unit but will restart it after your final compliance date, you must complete emission control retrofits and meet the emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits on the date your unit restarts operation.
§ 60.5125
What must I do if I plan to permanently close my SSI unit and not restart it?
If you plan to close your SSI unit rather than comply with the state plan, submit a closure notification, including the date of closure, to the Administrator by the date your final control plan is due.

# Model Rule—Operator Training and Qualification
§ 60.5130
What are the operator training and qualification requirements?
(a) A SSI unit cannot be operated unless a fully trained and qualified SSI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified SSI unit operator may operate the SSI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified SSI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in § 60.5155.
(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a state-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.
(1) Training on the 10 subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(x) of this section.
(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions.
(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion.
(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, sewage sludge feeding, and shutdown procedures.
(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring.
(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable).
(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices.
(vii) Actions to prevent malfunctions or to prevent conditions that may lead to malfunctions.
(viii) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures.
(ix) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards.
(x) Pollution prevention.
(2) An examination designed and administered by the state-approved program.
(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.
§ 60.5135
When must the operator training course be completed?
The operator training course must be completed by the later of the three dates specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) The final compliance date (Increment 2).
(b) Six months after your SSI unit startup.
(c) Six months after an employee assumes responsibility for operating the SSI unit or assumes responsibility for supervising the operation of the SSI unit.
§ 60.5140
How do I obtain my operator qualification?
(a) You must obtain operator qualification by completing a training course that satisfies the criteria under § 60.5130(b).
(b) Qualification is valid from the date on which the training course is completed and the operator successfully passes the examination required under § 60.5130(c)(2).
§ 60.5145
How do I maintain my operator qualification?
To maintain qualification, you must complete an annual review or refresher course covering, at a minimum, the five topics described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a) Update of regulations.
(b) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures, sewage sludge feeding, and ash handling.
(c) Inspection and maintenance.
(d) Prevention of malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.
(e) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.
§ 60.5150
How do I renew my lapsed operator qualification?
You must renew a lapsed operator qualification before you begin operation of a SSI unit by one of the two methods specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For a lapse of less than 3 years, you must complete a standard annual refresher course described in § 60.5145.
(b) For a lapse of 3 years or more, you must repeat the initial qualification requirements in § 60.5140(a).
§ 60.5155
What if all the qualified operators are temporarily not accessible?
If a qualified operator is not at the facility and cannot be at the facility within 1 hour, you must meet the criteria specified in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, depending on the length of time that a qualified operator is not accessible.
(a) When a qualified operator is not accessible for more than 8 hours, the SSI unit may be operated for less than 2 weeks by other plant personnel who are familiar with the operation of the SSI unit and who have completed a review of the information specified in § 60.5160 within the past 12 months. However, you must record the period when a qualified operator was not accessible and include this deviation in the annual report as specified under § 60.5235(d).
(b) When a qualified operator is not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions that are described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator of this deviation in writing within 10 days. In the notice, state what caused this deviation, what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, and when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(2) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks outlining what you are doing to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible, stating when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible, and requesting approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the SSI unit. You must submit the first status report 4 weeks after you notify the Administrator of the deviation under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(i) If the Administrator notifies you that your request to continue operation of the SSI unit is disapproved, the SSI unit may continue operation for 30 days, and then must cease operation.
(ii) Operation of the unit may resume if a qualified operator is accessible as required under § 60.5130(a). You must notify the Administrator within 5 days of having resumed operations and of having a qualified operator accessible.
§ 60.5160
What site-specific documentation is required and how often must it be reviewed by qualified operators and plant personnel?
(a) You must maintain at the facility the documentation of the operator training procedures specified under § 60.5230(c)(1) and make the documentation readily accessible to all SSI unit operators.
(b) You must establish a program for reviewing the information listed in § 60.5230(c)(1) with each qualified incinerator operator and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.5155(a), according to the following schedule:
(1) The initial review of the information listed in § 60.5230(c)(1) must be conducted within 6 months after the effective date of this subpart or prior to an employee's assumption of responsibilities for operation of the SSI unit, whichever date is later.
(2) Subsequent annual reviews of the information listed in § 60.5230(c)(1) must be conducted no later than 12 months following the previous review.

# Model Rule—Emission Limits, Emission Standards, and Operating Limits and Requirements
§ 60.5165
What emission limits and standards must I meet and by when?
You must meet the emission limits and standards specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart by the final compliance date under the approved state plan, Federal plan, or delegation, as applicable. The emission limits and standards apply at all times the unit is operating and during periods of malfunction. The emission limits and standards apply to emissions from a bypass stack or vent while sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time).
§ 60.5170
What operating limits and requirements must I meet and by when?
You must meet, as applicable, the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) and (h) of this section, according to the schedule specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The operating parameters for which you will establish operating limits for a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection are listed in Table 4 to this subpart. You must comply with the operating requirements in paragraph (f) of this section and the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section for meeting any new operating limits, re-established in § 60.5210. The operating limits apply at all times that sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time).
(a) You must meet a site-specific operating limit for minimum operating
temperature of the combustion chamber (or afterburner combustion chamber) that you establish in § 60.5190.
(b) If you use a wet scrubber, electrostatic precipitator, activated carbon injection, or afterburner to comply with an emission limit, you must meet the site-specific operating limits that you establish in § 60.5190 for each operating parameter associated with each air pollution control device.
(c) If you use a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, you must install the bag leak detection system specified in §§ 60.5200(b) and 60.5225(b)(3)(i) and operate the bag leak detection system such that the alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. You must calculate the alarm time as specified in § 60.5210(a)(2)(i).
(d) You must meet the operating requirements in your site-specific fugitive emission monitoring plan, submitted as specified in § 60.5200(d) to ensure that your ash handling system will meet the emission standard for fugitive emissions from ash handling.
(e) You must meet the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section by the final compliance date under the approved state plan, Federal plan, or delegation, as applicable.
(f) You must monitor the feed rate and moisture content of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1) Continuously monitor the sewage sludge feed rate and calculate a daily average for all hours of operation during each 24-hour period. Keep a record of the daily average feed rate, as specified in § 60.5230(f)(3)(ii).
(2) Take at least one grab sample per day of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator. If you take more than one grab sample in a day, calculate the daily average for the grab samples. Keep a record of the daily average moisture content, as specified in § 60.5230(f)(3)(ii).
(g) For the operating limits and requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) and (h) of this section, you must meet any new operating limits and requirements, re-established according to § 60.5210(d).
(h) If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, or activated carbon injection to comply with the emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, you must meet any site-specific operating limits or requirements that you establish as required in § 60.5175.
§ 60.5175
How do I establish operating limits if I do not use a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, activated carbon injection, or afterburner, or if I limit emissions in some other manner, to comply with the emission limits?
If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber, fabric filter, electrostatic precipitator, activated carbon injection, or afterburner, or limit emissions in some other manner (
e.g.,
materials balance) to comply with the emission limits in § 60.5165, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Meet the applicable operating limits and requirements in § 60.4850, and establish applicable operating limits according to § 60.5190.
(b) Petition the Administrator for specific operating parameters, operating limits, and averaging periods to be established during the initial performance test and to be monitored continuously thereafter.
(1) You are responsible for submitting any supporting information in a timely manner to enable the Administrator to consider the application prior to the performance test. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by the Administrator, and you must comply with the operating limits as written, pending approval by the Administrator. Neither submittal of an application, nor the Administrator's failure to approve or disapprove the application relieves you of the responsibility to comply with any provision of this subpart.
(2) Your petition must include the five items listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section.
(i) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to monitor.
(ii) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants.
(iii) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters that will establish the operating limits on these parameters, including a discussion of the averaging periods associated with those parameters for determining compliance.
(iv) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments.
(v) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.
§ 60.5180
Do the emission limits, emission standards, and operating limits apply during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction?
The emission limits and standards apply at all times and during periods of malfunction. The operating limits apply at all times that sewage sludge is in the combustion chamber (
i.e.,
until the sewage sludge feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the sewage sludge incineration residence time). For determining compliance with the CO concentration limit using CO CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured CO concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other CO concentrations (corrected to 7 percent O
2
) to determine the 24-hour average value.
§ 60.5181
How do I establish an affirmative defense for exceedance of an emission limit or standard during malfunction?
In response to an action to enforce the numerical emission standards set forth in paragraph § 60.5165, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for exceedances of emission limits that are caused by malfunction, as defined in § 60.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed however, if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a limit, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9) of this section are met.
(1) The excess emissions:
(i) Were caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner, and (ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices, and (iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for, and
(iv) Were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance, and
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when the applicable emission limits were being exceeded. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs, and (3) The frequency, amount and duration of the excess emissions (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable during periods of such emissions, and (4) If the excess emissions resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage, and
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the excess emissions on ambient air quality, the environment and human health, and
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices, and
(7) All of the actions in response to the excess emissions were documented
by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, and
(8) At all times, the affected facility was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions, and
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b) The owner or operator of the SSI unit experiencing an exceedance of its emission limit(s) during a malfunction, shall notify the Administrator by telephone or facsimile (fax) transmission as soon as possible, but no later than 2 business days after the initial occurrence of the malfunction, if it wishes to avail itself of an affirmative defense to civil penalties for that malfunction. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall also submit a written report to the Administrator within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance of the standard in § 60.5165 to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The owner or operator may seek an extension of this deadline for up to 30 additional days by submitting a written request to the Administrator before the expiration of the 45 day period. Until a request for an extension has been approved by the Administrator, the owner or operator is subject to the requirement to submit such report within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance.

# Model Rule—Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 60.5185
How and when do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards?
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, use the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section. In lieu of using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you have the option to demonstrate initial compliance using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling. You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, according to the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements in § 60.5220(a) and (b).
(a) Demonstrate initial compliance using the performance test required in § 60.8. You must demonstrate that your SSI unit meets the emission limits and standards specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling using the performance test. The initial performance test must be conducted using the test methods, averaging methods, and minimum sampling volumes or durations specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart and according to the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in § 60.5220(a).
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, you must demonstrate that your SSI unit meets the emission limits and standards specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart by your final compliance date (see Table 1 to this subpart).
(2) You may use the results from a performance test conducted within the 2 previous years that was conducted under the same conditions and demonstrated compliance with the emission limits and standards in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, provided no process changes have been made since you conducted that performance test. However, you must continue to meet the operating limits established during the most recent performance test that demonstrated compliance with the emission limits and standards in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The performance
test must have used the test methods specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.
(b) Demonstrate initial compliance using a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
Collect data as specified in § 60.5220(b)(6) and use the following procedures:
(1) To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead, you may substitute the use of a continuous monitoring system in lieu of conducting the initial performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, as follows:
(i) You may substitute the use of a continuous emissions monitoring system for any pollutant specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in lieu of conducting the initial performance test for that pollutant in paragraph (a) of this section. For determining compliance with the carbon monoxide concentration limit using carbon monoxide CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured carbon monoxide concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other carbon monoxide concentrations (corrected to 7 percent oxygen) to determine the 24-hour average value.
(ii) You may substitute the use of a continuous automated sampling system for mercury or dioxins/furans in lieu of conducting the annual mercury or dioxin/furan performance test in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If you use a continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must use the continuous emissions monitoring system and follow the requirements specified in § 60.5220(b). You must measure emissions according to § 60.13 to calculate 1-hour arithmetic averages, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide). You must demonstrate initial compliance using a 24-hour block average of these 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, calculated using Equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(3) If you use a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must:
(i) Use the continuous automated sampling system specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q), and measure and calculate average emissions corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide) according to § 60.58b(p) and your monitoring plan.
(A) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 24-hour block averages to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart.
(B) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 2-week block averages to determine compliance with the dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart.
(ii) Comply with the provisions in § 60.58b(q) to develop a monitoring plan. For mercury continuous automated sampling systems, you must use Performance Specification 12B of appendix B of part 75 and Procedure 5 of appendix F of this part.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, you must complete your initial performance evaluations required under your monitoring plan for any continuous emissions monitoring systems and continuous automated sampling systems by your final compliance date (see Table 1 to this subpart). Your performance evaluation
must be conducted using the procedures and acceptance criteria specified in § 60.5200(a)(3).
(c) To demonstrate initial compliance with the dioxins/furans toxic equivalency emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency as follows:
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octachlorinated-isomer emitted using EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(2) Multiply the concentration of each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octa-chlorinated) isomer by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 5 to this subpart. (3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(d) Submit an initial compliance report, as specified in § 60.5235(b).
(e) If you demonstrate initial compliance using the performance test specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply. If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must notify the Administrator in writing as specified in § 60.5235(g). You must conduct the initial performance test as soon as practicable after the force majeure occurs. The Administrator will determine whether or not to grant the extension to the initial performance test deadline, and will notify you in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an extension as soon as practicable. Until an extension of the performance test deadline has been approved by the Administrator, you remain strictly subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.5190
How do I establish my operating limits?
(a) You must establish the site-specific operating limits specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section or established in § 60.5175, as applicable, during your initial performance tests required in § 60.5185. You must meet the requirements in § 60.5210(d) to confirm these operating limits or re-establishre-establish new operating limits using operating data recorded during any performance tests or performance evaluations required in § 60.5205. You must follow the data measurement and recording frequencies and data averaging times specified in Table 4 to this subpart or as established in § 60.5175, and you must follow the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in §§ 60.5220 and 60.5225 or established in § 60.5175. You are not required to establish operating limits for the operating parameters listed in Table 4 to this subpart for a control device if you use a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart for the applicable pollutants, as follows:
(1) For a scrubber designed to control emissions of hydrogen chloride or sulfur dioxide, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor scrubber liquid flow rate or scrubber liquid pH if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for hydrogen chloride or sulfur dioxide.
(2) For a scrubber designed to control emissions of particulate matter, cadmium, and lead, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor pressure drop across the scrubber or scrubber liquid flow rate if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for particulate matter, cadmium, and lead.
(3) For an electrostatic precipitator designed to control emissions of particulate matter, cadmium, and lead, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor secondary voltage of the collection plates, secondary amperage of the collection plates, or effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for particulate matter, lead, and cadmium.
(4) For an activated carbon injection system designed to control emissions
of mercury, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate (or carrier gas pressure drop) if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for mercury.
(5) For an activated carbon injection system designed to control emissions of dioxins/furans, you are not required to establish an operating limit and monitor sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate (or carrier gas pressure drop) if you use the continuous monitoring system specified in §§ 60.4865(b) and 60.4885(b) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis).
(b) Minimum pressure drop across each wet scrubber used to meet the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, equal to the lowest 4-hour average pressure drop across each such wet scrubber measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits.
(c) Minimum scrubber liquid flow rate (measured at the inlet to each wet scrubber), equal to the lowest 4-hour average liquid flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits. (d) Minimum scrubber liquid pH for each wet scrubber used to meet the sulfur dioxide or hydrogen chloride emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, equal to the lowest 1-hour average scrubber liquid pH measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride emission limits.
(e) Minimum combustion chamber operating temperature (or minimum afterburner temperature), equal to the lowest 4-hour average combustion chamber operating temperature (or afterburner temperature) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
(f) Minimum power input to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates, equal to the lowest 4-hour average secondary electric power measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits. Power input must be calculated as the product of the secondary voltage and secondary amperage to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates. Both the secondary voltage and secondary amperage must be recorded during the performance test. (g) Minimum effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator, equal to the lowest 4-hour average effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the particulate matter, lead, and cadmium emission limits. (h) For activated carbon injection, establish the site-specific operating limits specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.
(1) Minimum mercury sorbent injection rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average mercury sorbent injection rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit.
(2) Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limit.
(3) Minimum carrier gas flow rate or minimum carrier gas pressure drop, as follows:
(i) Minimum carrier gas flow rate, equal to the lowest 4-hour average carrier gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
(ii) Minimum carrier gas pressure drop, equal to the lowest 4-hour average carrier gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
§ 60.5195
By what date must I conduct the initial air pollution control device inspection and make any necessary repairs?
(a) You must conduct an air pollution control device inspection according to § 60.5220(c) by the final compliance date under the approved state plan, Federal plan, or delegation, as applicable. For air pollution control devices installed after the final compliance date, you must conduct the air pollution control device inspection within 60 days after installation of the control device.
(b) Within 10 operating days following the air pollution control device inspection under paragraph (a) of this section, all necessary repairs must be completed unless you obtain written approval from the Administrator establishing a date whereby all necessary repairs of the SSI unit must be completed.
§ 60.5200
How do I develop a site-specific monitoring plan for my continuous monitoring, bag leak detection, and ash handling systems, and by what date must I conduct an initial performance evaluation?
You must develop and submit to the Administrator for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each continuous monitoring system required under this subpart, according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i) and paragraph (e) of this section. If you use a continuous automated sampling system to comply with the mercury or dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limits, you must develop your monitoring plan as specified in § 60.58b(q), and you are not required to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. You must also submit a site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. You must submit and update your monitoring plans as specified in paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section.
(a) For each continuous monitoring system, your monitoring plan must address the elements and requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(8) of this section. You must operate and maintain the continuous monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
(1) Installation of the continuous monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.,
on or downstream of the last control device).
(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer and the data collection and reduction systems.
(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(i) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, your performance evaluation and acceptance criteria must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) The applicable requirements for continuous emissions monitoring systems specified in § 60.13.
(B) The applicable performance specifications (
e.g.,
relative accuracy tests) in appendix B of this part.
(C) The applicable procedures (
e.g.,
quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests) in appendix F of this part.
(D) A discussion of how the occurrence and duration of out-of-control periods will affect the suitability of CEMS data, where out-of-control has the meaning given in section (a)(7)(i) of this section.
(ii) For continuous parameter monitoring systems, your performance evaluation and acceptance criteria must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a flow monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the flow sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative flow.
(
2
) Use a flow sensor with a measurement sensitivity of no greater than 2
percent of the expected process flow rate.
(
3
) Minimize the effects of swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.
(
4
) Conduct a flow monitoring system performance evaluation in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(B) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a pressure monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the pressure sensor(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure (
e.g.,
particulate matter scrubber pressure drop).
(
2
) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(
3
) Use a pressure sensor with a minimum tolerance of 1.27 centimeters of water or a minimum tolerance of 1 percent of the pressure monitoring system operating range, whichever is less.
(
4
) Perform checks at least once each process operating day to ensure pressure measurements are not obstructed (
e.g.,
check for pressure tap pluggage daily).
(
5
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(
6
) If at any time the measured pressure exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range, conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan and confirm that the pressure monitoring system continues to meet the performance requirements in your monitoring plan. Alternatively, install and verify the operation of a new pressure sensor.
(C) If you have an operating limit that requires a pH monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(C)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the pH sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber effluent pH.
(
2
) Ensure the sample is properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured.
(
3
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at least once each process operating day.
(
4
) Conduct a performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the operating limit pH level) of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than quarterly.
(D) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a temperature measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(D)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the temperature sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(
2
) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit), or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger, for a noncryogenic temperature range.
(
3
) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit), or 2.5 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger, for a cryogenic temperature range.
(
4
) Conduct a temperature measurement device performance evaluation at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(E) If you have an operating limit that requires a secondary electric power monitoring system for an electrostatic precipitator, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(E)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Install sensors to measure (secondary) voltage and current to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates.
(
2
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the electric power monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(F) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a monitoring system to measure sorbent injection rate (
e.g.,
weigh belt, weigh hopper, or hopper flow measurement device), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(F)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Install the system in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the total sorbent injection rate.
(
2
) Conduct a performance evaluation of the sorbent injection rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.
(4) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.11(d).
(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.13.
(6) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.7(b), (c), (c)(1), (c)(4), (d), (e), (f) and (g).
(7) Provisions for periods when the continuous monitoring system is out of control, as follows:
(i) A continuous monitoring system is out of control if the conditions of paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) or (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section are met.
(A) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration drift exceeds two times the applicable calibration drift specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard.
(B) The continuous monitoring system fails a performance test audit (
e.g.,
cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit.
(ii) When the continuous monitoring system is out of control as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section, you must take the necessary corrective action and must repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. You must take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour you conduct a performance check (
e.g.,
calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits.
(8) Schedule for conducting initial and periodic performance evaluations of your continuous monitoring systems.
(b) If a bag leak detection system is used, your monitoring plan must include a description of the following items:
(1) Installation of the bag leak detection system in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Install the bag leak detection sensor(s) in a position(s) that will be representative of the relative or absolute particulate matter loadings for each exhaust stack, roof vent, or compartment (
e.g.,
for a positive pressure fabric filter) of the fabric filter.
(ii) Use a bag leak detection system certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less.
(2) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established. Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a system that will sound an alarm when the system detects an increase in relative particulate matter emissions over a preset level. The alarm must be located where it is observed readily and any alert is detected and recognized easily by plant operating personnel.
(3) Evaluations of the performance of the bag leak detection system, performed in accordance with your monitoring plan and consistent with the guidance provided in Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).
(4) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures.
(5) Maintenance of the bag leak detection system, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.
(6) Recordkeeping (including record retention) of the bag leak detection system data. Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor. (c) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring system and bag leak detection system, as applicable, in accordance with your monitoring plan and to § 60.13(c). For the purpose of this subpart, the provisions of § 60.13(c) also apply to the bag leak detection system. You must conduct the initial performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring system within 60 days of installation of the monitoring system
(d) You must submit a monitoring plan specifying the ash handling system operating procedures that you will follow to ensure that you meet the fugitive emissions limit specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.
(e) You may submit an application to the Administrator for approval of alternate monitoring requirements to demonstrate compliance with the standards of this subpart, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section.
(1) The Administrator will not approve averaging periods other than those specified in this section, unless you document, using data or information, that the longer averaging period will ensure that emissions do not exceed levels achieved over the duration of three performance test runs.
(2) If the application to use an alternate monitoring requirement is approved, you must continue to use the original monitoring requirement until approval is received to use another monitoring requirement.
(3) You must submit the application for approval of alternate monitoring requirements no later than the notification of performance test. The application must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section:
(i) Data or information justifying the request, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality of using the required approach.
(ii) A description of the proposed alternative monitoring requirement, including the operating parameter to be monitored, the monitoring approach and technique, the averaging period for the limit, and how the limit is to be calculated.
(iii) Data or information documenting that the alternative monitoring requirement would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard.
(4) The Administrator will notify you of the approval or denial of the application within 90 calendar days after receipt of the original request, or within 60 calendar days of the receipt of any supplementary information, whichever is later. The Administrator will not approve an alternate monitoring application unless it would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard. Before disapproving any alternate monitoring application, the Administrator will provide the following:
(i) Notice of the information and findings upon which the intended disapproval is based.
(ii) Notice of opportunity for you to present additional supporting information before final action is taken on the application. This notice will specify how much additional time is allowed for you to provide additional supporting information.
(5) You are responsible for submitting any supporting information in a timely manner to enable the Administrator to consider the application prior to the performance test. Neither submittal of an application, nor the Administrator's failure to approve or disapprove the application relieves you of the responsibility to comply with any provision of this subpart.
(6) The Administrator may decide at any time, on a case-by-case basis, that additional or alternative operating limits, or alternative approaches to establishing operating limits, are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards of this subpart.
(f) You must submit your monitoring plans required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section at least 60 days before
your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system(s).
(g) You must submit your monitoring plan for your ash handling system, as required in paragraph (d) of this section, at least 60 days before your initial compliance test date.
(h) You must update and resubmit your monitoring plan if there are any changes or potential changes in your monitoring procedures or if there is a process change, as defined in § 60.5250.

# Model Rule—Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 60.5205
How and when do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits and standards?
To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits and standards specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, use the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section. In lieu of using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you have the option to demonstrate initial compliance using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, lead, and fugitive emissions from ash handling. You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, according to the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements in § 60.5220(a) and (b). You may also petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(a) Demonstrate continuous compliance using a performance test. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (e) of this section, following the date that the initial performance test for each pollutant in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart is completed, you must conduct a performance test for each such pollutant on an annual basis (between 11 and 13 calendar months following the previous performance test). The performance test must be conducted using the test methods, averaging methods, and minimum sampling volumes or durations specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart and according to the testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements specified in § 60.5220(a).
(1) You may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits to apply from that point forward. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time.
(2) You must repeat the performance test within 60 days of a process change, as defined in § 60.5250.
(3) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, you can conduct performance tests less often for a given pollutant, as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You can conduct performance tests less often if your performance tests for the pollutant for at least 2 consecutive years show that your emissions are at or below 75 percent of the emission limit specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart, and there are no changes in the operation of the affected source or air pollution control equipment that could increase emissions. In this case, you do not have to conduct a performance test for that pollutant for the next 2 years. You must conduct a performance test during the third year and no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.(ii) If your SSI unit continues to meet the emission limit for the pollutant, you may choose to conduct performance tests for the pollutant every third year if your emissions are at or below 75 percent of the emission limit, and if there are no changes in the operation of the affected source or air pollution control equipment that could increase emissions, but each such performance test must be conducted no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.
(iii) If a performance test shows emissions exceeded 75 percent of the emission limit for a pollutant, you must conduct annual performance tests for that pollutant until all performance tests over 2 consecutive years show compliance.
(b) Demonstrate continuous compliance using a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system. The option to
use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
Collect data as specified in § 60.5220(b)(6) and use the following procedures:
(1) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis), mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead, you may substitute the use of a continuous monitoring system in lieu of conducting the annual performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, as follows:
(i) You may substitute the use of a continuous emissions monitoring system for any pollutant specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in lieu of conducting the annual performance test for that pollutant in paragraph (a) of this section. For determining compliance with the carbon monoxide concentration limit using carbon monoxide CEMS, the correction to 7 percent oxygen does not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. Use the measured carbon monoxide concentration without correcting for oxygen concentration in averaging with other carbon monoxide concentrations (corrected to 7 percent oxygen) to determine the 24-hour average value.
(ii) You may substitute the use of a continuous automated sampling system for mercury or dioxins/furans in lieu of conducting the annual mercury or dioxin/furan performance test in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If you use a continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must use the continuous emissions monitoring system and follow the requirements specified in § 60.5220(b). You must measure emissions according to § 60.13 to calculate 1-hour arithmetic averages, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide). You must demonstrate initial compliance using a 24-hour block average of these 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, calculated using Equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(3) If you use a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must:
(i) Use the continuous automated sampling system specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q), and measure and calculate average emissions corrected to 7 percent oxygen (or carbon dioxide) according to § 60.58b(p) and your monitoring plan.
(A) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 24-hour averages to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart.
(B) Use the procedures specified in § 60.58b(p) to calculate 2-week averages to determine compliance with the dioxin/furan (total mass basis or toxic equivalency basis) emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart.
(ii) Update your monitoring plan as specified in § 60.4880(e). For mercury continuous automated sampling systems, you must use Performance Specification 12B of appendix B of part 75 and Procedure 5 of appendix F of this part.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, you must complete your periodic performance evaluations required in your monitoring plan for any continuous emissions monitoring systems and continuous automated sampling systems, according to the schedule specified in your monitoring plan. If you were previously determining compliance by conducting an annual performance test (or according to the less frequent testing for a pollutant as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), you must complete the initial performance evaluation required under your monitoring plan in § 60.5200 for the continuous monitoring system prior to using the continuous
emissions monitoring system to demonstrate compliance or continuous automated sampling system. Your performance evaluation must be conducted using the procedures and acceptance criteria specified in § 60.5200(a)(3).
(c) To demonstrate compliance with the dioxins/furans toxic equivalency emission limit in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, you must determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency as follows:
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octachlorinated-isomer emitted using Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(2) For each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octachlorinated) isomer measured in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, multiply the isomer concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 5 to this subpart.
(3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(d) You must submit an annual compliance report as specified in § 60.5235(c). You must submit a deviation report as specified in § 60.5235(d) for each instance that you did not meet each emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart.
(e) If you demonstrate continuous compliance using a performance test, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply. If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must notify the Administrator in writing as specified in § 60.5235(g). You must conduct the performance test as soon as practicable after the force majeure occurs. The Administrator will determine whether or not to grant the extension to the performance test deadline, and will notify you in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an extension as soon as practicable. Until an extension of the performance test deadline has been approved by the Administrator, you remain strictly subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(f) After any initial requests in § 60.5200 for alternative monitoring requirements for initial compliance, you may subsequently petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters as specified in §§ 60.13(i) and 60.5200(e).
§ 60.5210
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with my operating limits?
You must continuously monitor your operating parameters as specified in paragraph (a) of this section and meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, according to the monitoring and calibration requirements in § 60.5225. You must confirm and re-establish your operating limits as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section using the continuous monitoring equipment and according to the procedures specified in § 60.5225 or established in § 60.5175. To determine compliance, you must use the data averaging period specified in Table 4 to this subpart (except for alarm time of the baghouse leak detection system) unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.5175.
(1) You must demonstrate that the SSI unit meets the operating limits established according to §§ 60.5175 and 60.5190 and paragraph (d) of this section for each applicable operating parameter.
(2) You must demonstrate that the SSI unit meets the operating limit for bag leak detection systems as follows:
(i) For a bag leak detection system, you must calculate the alarm time as follows:
(A) If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted.
(B) If corrective action is required, each alarm time shall be counted as a minimum of 1 hour.
(C) If you take longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, each alarm time (
i.e.,
time that the alarm sounds) is counted as the actual amount of time taken by you to initiate corrective action.
(ii) Your maximum alarm time is equal to 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period, as specified in § 60.5170(c).
(b) Operation above the established maximum, below the established minimum, or outside the allowable range of the operating limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a deviation from your operating limits established under this subpart, except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission and operating limits or to establish new operating limits. You must submit the deviation report specified in § 60.5235(d) for each instance that you did not meet one of your operating limits established under this subpart.
(c) You must submit the annual compliance report specified in § 60.5235(c) to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(d) You must confirm your operating limits according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section or re-establish operating limits according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Your operating limits must be established so as to assure ongoing compliance with the emission limits. These requirements also apply to your operating requirements in your fugitive emissions monitoring plan specified in § 60.5170(d).
(1) Your operating limits must be based on operating data recorded during any performance test required in § 60.5205(a) or any performance evaluation required in § 60.5205(b)(4).
(2) You may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating limits to apply from that point forward.
§ 60.5215
By what date must I conduct annual air pollution control device inspections and make any necessary repairs?
(a) You must conduct an annual inspection of each air pollution control device used to comply with the emission limits, according to § 60.5220(c), no later than 12 months following the previous annual air pollution control device inspection.
(b) Within 10 operating days following an air pollution control device inspection, all necessary repairs must be completed unless you obtain written approval from the Administrator establishing a date whereby all necessary repairs of the affected SSI unit must be completed.

# Model Rule—Performance Testing, Monitoring, and Calibration Requirements
§ 60.5220
What are the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements for compliance with the emission limits and standards?
You must meet, as applicable, the performance testing requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the air pollution control device inspections requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the bypass stack provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Performance testing requirements.
(1) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations, as specified in § 60.8(c). Emissions in excess of the emission limits or standards during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction are considered deviations from the applicable emission limits or standards.
(2) You must document that the dry sludge burned during the performance test is representative of the sludge burned under normal operating conditions by:
(i) Maintaining a log of the quantity of sewage sludge burned during the performance test by continuously monitoring and recording the average hourly rate that sewage sludge is fed to the incinerator.
(ii) Maintaining a log of the moisture content of the sewage sludge burned during the performance test by taking grab samples of the sewage sludge fed to the incinerator for each 8 hour period that testing is conducted.
(3) All performance tests must be conducted using the test methods, minimum sampling volume, observation period, and averaging method specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.
(4) Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.
(5) Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 must be used simultaneously with each method.
(6) All pollutant concentrations must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 of this section:
ER21MR11.020
Where:
C
adj
= Pollutant concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen.
C
meas
= Pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis.
(20.9 − 7) = 20.9 percent oxygen − 7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis).
20.9 = Oxygen concentration in air, percent.
%O
2
= Oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(7) Performance tests must be conducted and data reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures contained in this subpart unless the Administrator does one of the following.
(i) Specifies or approves, in specific cases, the use of a method with minor changes in methodology.
(ii) Approves the use of an equivalent method.
(iii) Approves the use of an alternative method the results of which he has determined to be adequate for indicating whether a specific source is in compliance.
(iv) Waives the requirement for performance tests because you have demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the affected SSI unit is in compliance with the standard.
(v) Approves shorter sampling times and smaller sample volumes when necessitated by process variables or other factors. Nothing in this paragraph is construed to abrogate the Administrator's authority to require testing under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.
(8) You must provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of any performance test, except as specified under other subparts, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems,
etc.
) in conducting the scheduled performance test, you must notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.
(9) You must provide, or cause to be provided, performance testing facilities as follows:
(i) Sampling ports adequate for the test methods applicable to the SSI unit, as follows:
(A) Constructing the air pollution control system such that volumetric flow rates and pollutant emission rates can be accurately determined by applicable test methods and procedures.
(B) Providing a stack or duct free of cyclonic flow during performance tests, as demonstrated by applicable test methods and procedures.
(ii) Safe sampling platform(s).
(iii) Safe access to sampling platform(s).
(iv) Utilities for sampling and testing equipment.
(10) Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each performance test must consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. Each run must be conducted for the time and under the conditions specified in the applicable standard. Compliance with each emission limit must be determined by calculating the arithmetic mean of the three runs. In the event that a sample is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances, beyond your control, compliance may, upon the Administrator's approval, be determined using the arithmetic mean of the results of the two other runs.
(11) During each test run specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must operate your sewage sludge incinerator at a minimum of 85 percent of your maximum permitted capacity.
(b)
Continuous monitor requirements.
You must meet the following requirements, as applicable, when using a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead is published in the
Federal Register.
If you elect to use a continuous emissions monitoring system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section. The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the
Federal Register.
(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting use of the continuous emissions monitoring system.
(2) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before stopping use of the continuous emissions monitoring system, in which case you must also conduct a performance test within prior to ceasing operation of the system.
(3) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the emissions to the atmosphere in accordance with the following:
(i) Section 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(ii) The following performance specifications of appendix B of this part, as applicable:
(A) For particulate matter, Performance Specification 11 of appendix B of this part.
(B) For hydrogen chloride, Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part.
(C) For carbon monoxide, Performance Specification 4B of appendix B of this part with spans appropriate to the applicable emission limit.
(D) [Reserved]
(E) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A of appendix B of this part.
(F) For nitrogen oxides, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part.
(G) For sulfur dioxide, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part.
(iii) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, the quality assurance procedures (
e.g.,
quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests) of appendix F of this part specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (b)(3)(iii)(G) of this section. For each pollutant, the span value of the continuous emissions monitoring system is two times the applicable emission limit, expressed as a concentration.
(A) For particulate matter, Procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.
(B) For hydrogen chloride, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 shall be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part.
(C) For carbon monoxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(D) [Reserved]
(E) For mercury, Procedures 5 in appendix F of this part.
(F) For nitrogen oxides, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(G) For sulfur dioxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(iv) If your monitoring system has a malfunction or out-of-control period, you must complete repairs and resume operation of your monitoring system as expeditiously as possible.
(4) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emissions monitoring system using the performance specifications in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, emission data for each regulated pollutant and oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in (b)(5) of
this section) must be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emissions monitoring systems and the test methods specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(viii) of this section. Relative accuracy testing must be at representative operating conditions while the SSI unit is charging sewage sludge.
(i) For particulate matter, Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Method 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 shall be used.
(ii) For hydrogen chloride, Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used, as specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart.
(iii) For carbon monoxide, Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.
(iv) For dioxins/furans, Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, shall be used.
(v) For mercury, cadmium, and lead, Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used. Alternatively for mercury, either Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), may be used.
(vi) For nitrogen oxides, Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.
(vii) For sulfur dioxide, Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) must be used. For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for the inlet of the sulfur dioxide continuous emissions monitoring system should be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the method and the continuous emissions monitoring system, whichever is greater.
(viii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in (b)(5) of this section), Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), as applicable, must be used.
(5) You may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels must be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iv) of this section. This relationship may be re-established during subsequent performance tests.
(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 must be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3A or 3B at 50 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17), as applicable, must be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor.
(ii) Samples must be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour.
(iii) Each sample must represent a 1-hour average.
(iv) A minimum of three runs must be performed.
(6) You must operate the continuous monitoring system and collect data with the continuous monitoring system as follows:
(i) You must collect data using the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected SSI unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions that occur during periods specified in § 60.5200(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). Any such periods that you do not collect data using the continuous monitoring system constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(ii) You must collect continuous emissions monitoring system data in accordance with § 60.13(e)(2).
(iii) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported in a deviation report.
(iv) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during out-of-control periods must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods that do not coincide with a monitoring system malfunction as defined in § 60.5250, constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(v) You must use all the data collected during all periods except those periods specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iii) and (b)(6)(iv) of this section in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(7) If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must:
(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system according to the site-specific monitoring plan developed in § 60.58b(p)(1) through (p)(6), (p)(9), (p)(10), and (q).
(ii) Collect data according to § 60.58b(p)(5) and paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(c)
Air pollution control device inspections.
You must conduct air pollution control device inspections that include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Inspect air pollution control device(s) for proper operation.
(2) Generally observe that the equipment is maintained in good operating condition.
(3) Develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 60.5200. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i). (d)
Bypass stack.
Use of the bypass stack at any time that sewage sludge is being charged to the SSI unit is an emissions standards deviation for all pollutants listed in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test invalidates the performance test.
§ 60.5225
What are the monitoring and calibration requirements for compliance with my operating limits?
(a) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain the continuous parameter monitoring systems according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Meet the following general requirements for flow, pressure, pH, and operating temperature measurement devices:
(i) You must collect data using the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected SSI unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions that occur during periods specified defined in § 60.5200(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). Any such periods that you do not collect data using the continuous monitoring system constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(ii) You must collect continuous parameter monitoring system data in accordance with § 60.13(e)(2).
(iii) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported in your annual deviation report.
(iv) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in § 60.5200(a)(7)(i) must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating
levels. Any such periods that do not coincide with a monitoring system malfunction, as defined in § 60.5250, constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.
(v) You must use all the data collected during all periods except those periods specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(1)(iv) of this section in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(vi) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.
(2) Operate and maintain your continuous monitoring system according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880. Additionally:
(i) For carrier gas flow rate monitors (for activated carbon injection), during the performance test conducted pursuant to § 60.4885, you must demonstrate that the system is maintained within ±5 percent accuracy, according to the procedures in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.
(ii) For carrier gas pressure drop monitors (for activated carbon injection), during the performance test conducted pursuant to § 60.4885, you must demonstrate that the system is maintained within ±5 percent accuracy.
(b) You must operate and maintain your bag leak detection system in continuous operation according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880. Additionally:
(1) For positive pressure fabric filter systems that do not duct all compartments of cells to a common stack, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.
(2) Where multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(3) You must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 8 hours of the alarm, and you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 24 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate matter emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate matter emissions.
(c) You must operate and maintain the continuous parameter monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in continuous operation according to your monitoring plan required under § 60.4880.
(d) If your SSI unit has a bypass stack, you must install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device or method for measuring the use of the bypass stack including date, time, and duration.

# Model Rule—Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 60.5230
What records must I keep?
You must maintain the items (as applicable) specified in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section for a period of at least 5 years. All records must be available on site in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
(a)
Date.
Calendar date of each record.
(b)
Increments of progress.
Copies of the final control plan and any additional notifications, reported under § 60.5235.
(c)
Operator Training.
Documentation of the operator training procedures and records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. You must make available and readily accessible at the facility at all times for all SSI unit operators the documentation specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1) Documentation of the following operator training procedures and information:
(i) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart.
(ii) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding sewage sludge.
(iii) Incinerator startup, shutdown, and malfunction preventative and corrective procedures.
(iv) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels.
(v) Procedures for operating the incinerator and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart.
(vi) Monitoring procedures for demonstrating compliance with the incinerator operating limits.
(vii) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(viii) Procedures for handling ash.
(ix) A list of the materials burned during the performance test, if in addition to sewage sludge.
(x) For each qualified operator and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.5155(a), the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.
(2) Records showing the names of SSI unit operators and other plant personnel who may operate the unit according to the provisions of § 60.5155(a), as follows:
(i) Records showing the names of SSI unit operators and other plant personnel who have completed review of the information in paragraph (c)(1) of this section as required by § 60.5160(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.
(ii) Records showing the names of the SSI operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.5130, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.5140, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.5145 or § 60.5150. Records must include documentation of training, including the dates of their initial qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.
(3) Records showing the periods when no qualified operators were accessible for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks, as required in § 60.5155(a).
(4) Records showing the periods when no qualified operators were accessible for 2 weeks or more along with copies of reports submitted as required in § 60.5155(b).
(d)
Air pollution control device inspections.
Records of the results of initial and annual air pollution control device inspections conducted as specified in §§ 60.5195 and 60.5220(c), including any required maintenance and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.
(e)
Performance test reports.
(1) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and standards and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable.
(2) Retain a copy of the complete performance test report, including calculations.
(3) Keep a record of the hourly dry sludge feed rate measured during performance test runs as specified in § 60.5220(a)(2)(i).
(4) Keep any necessary records to demonstrate that the performance test was conducted under conditions representative of normal operations, including a record of the moisture content measured as required in § 60.5220(a)(2)(ii) for each grab sample taken of the sewage sludge burned during the performance test.
(f)
Continuous monitoring data.
Records of the following data, as applicable:
(1) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, all 1-hour average concentrations of particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans total mass basis, mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, cadmium, and lead emissions.
(2) For continuous automated sampling systems, all average concentrations measured for mercury and dioxins/furans total mass basis at the frequencies specified in your monitoring plan.
(3) For continuous parameter monitoring systems:
(i) All 1-hour average values recorded for the following operating parameters, as applicable:
(A) Combustion chamber operating temperature (or afterburner temperature).
(B) If a wet scrubber is used to comply with the rule, pressure drop across each wet scrubber system and liquid flow rate to each wet scrubber used to comply with the emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart for particulate matter, cadmium, or lead, and scrubber liquid flow rate and scrubber liquid pH for each wet scrubber used to comply with an emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart for sulfur dioxide or hydrogen chloride.
(C) If an electrostatic precipitator is used to comply with the rule, secondary voltage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates and secondary amperage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates, and effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the wet electrostatic precipitator.
(D) If activated carbon injection is used to comply with the rule, sorbent flow rate and carrier gas flow rate or pressure drop, as applicable.
(ii) All daily average values recorded for the feed rate and moisture content of the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator, monitored and calculated as specified in § 60.5170(f).
(iii) If a fabric filter is used to comply with the rule, the date, time, and duration of each alarm and the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm sounds, calculated as specified in § 60.5210.
(iv) For other control devices for which you must establish operating limits under § 60.5175, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits, at the frequencies specified in your monitoring plan.
(g)
Other records for continuous monitoring systems.
You must keep the following records, as applicable:
(1) Keep records of any notifications to the Administrator in § 60.4915(h)(1) of starting or stopping use of a continuous monitoring system for determining compliance with any emissions limit.
(2) Keep records of any requests under § 60.5220(b)(5) that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen.
(3) If activated carbon injection is used to comply with the rule, the type of sorbent used and any changes in the type of sorbent used.
(h)
Deviation Reports.
Records of any deviation reports submitted under § 60.5235(e) and (f).
(i)
Equipment specifications and operation and maintenance requirements.
Equipment specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements received from vendors for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.
(j)
Inspections, calibrations, and validation checks of monitoring devices.
Records of inspections, calibration, and validation checks of any monitoring devices as required under §§ 60.5220 and 60.5225.
(k)
Monitoring plan and performance evaluations for continuous monitoring systems.
Records of the monitoring plans required under § 60.5200, and records of performance evaluations required under § 60.5205(b)(5).(l)
Less frequent testing.
If, consistent with 60.5205(a)(3), you elect to conduct performance tests less frequently than annually, you must keep annual records that document that your emissions in the two previous consecutive years were at or below 75 percent of the applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, and document that there were no changes in source operations or air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past 2 years.
(m)
Use of bypass stack.
Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times, and durations as required under § 60.5225(d).
(n) If a malfunction occurs, you must keep a record of the information submitted in your annual report in § 60.5235(c)(16).
§ 60.5235
What reports must I submit?
You must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. See Table 6 to this subpart for a summary of these reports.
(a)
Increments of progress report.
If you plan to achieve compliance more than 1 year following the effective date of state plan approval, you must submit the following reports, as applicable:
(1) A final control plan as specified in §§ 60.5085(a) and 60.5110.
(2) You must submit your notification of achievement of increments of progress no later than 10 business days after the compliance date for the increment as specified in §§ 60.5095 and 60.5100.
(3) If you fail to meet an increment of progress, you must submit a notification to the Administrator postmarked within 10 business days after the date for that increment, as specified in § 60.5105.
(4) If you plan to close your SSI unit rather than comply with the state plan, submit a closure notification as specified in § 60.5125.
(b)
Initial compliance report.
You must submit the following information no later than 60 days following the initial performance test.
(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report.
(4) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained by using the test methods specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.
(5) If an initial performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that initial performance evaluation.
(6) The values for the site-specific operating limits established pursuant to §§ 60.5170 and 60.5175 and the calculations and methods, as applicable, used to establish each operating limit.
(7) If you are using a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, documentation that a bag leak detection system has been installed and is being operated, calibrated, and maintained as required by § 60.5170(b).
(8) The results of the initial air pollution control device inspection required in § 60.5195, including a description of repairs.
(9) The site-specific monitoring plan required under § 60.5200, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system.
(10) The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system required under § 60.5200, at least 60 days before your initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with your fugitive ash emission limit.
(c)
Annual compliance report.
You must submit an annual compliance report that includes the items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(16) of this section for the reporting period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. You must submit your first annual compliance report no later than 12 months following the submission of the initial compliance report in paragraph (b) of this section. You must submit subsequent annual compliance reports no more than 12 months following the previous annual compliance report. (You may be required to submit these reports (or additional compliance information) more frequently by the title V operating permit required in § 60.5240.)
(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that performance test.
(i) If operating limits were established during the performance test, include the value for each operating limit and, as applicable, the method used to establish each operating limit, including calculations.
(ii) If activated carbon is used during the performance test, include the type of activated carbon used.
(5) For each pollutant and operating parameter recorded using a continuous monitoring system, the highest average value and lowest average value recorded during the reporting period, as follows:
(i) For continuous emission monitoring systems and continuous automated sampling systems, report the highest and lowest 24-hour average emission value.
(ii) For continuous parameter monitoring systems, report the following values:
(A) For all operating parameters except scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 12-hour average values.
(B) For scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 3-hour average values.
(6) If there are no deviations during the reporting period from any emission limit, emission standard, or operating limit that applies to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, emission standard, or operating limits.
(7) Information for bag leak detection systems recorded under § 60.5230(f)(3)(iii).
(8) If a performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that performance evaluation. If new operating limits were established during the performance evaluation, include your calculations for establishing those operating limits.
(9) If you elect to conduct performance tests less frequently as allowed in § 60.5205(a)(3) and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must include the dates of the last two performance tests, a comparison of the emission level you achieved in the last two performance tests to the 75 percent emission limit threshold specified in § 60.5205(a)(3), and a statement as to whether there have been any process changes and whether the process change resulted in an increase in emissions.
(10) Documentation of periods when all qualified sewage sludge incineration unit operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks.
(11) Results of annual air pollution control device inspections recorded under § 60.5230(d) for the reporting period, including a description of repairs.
(12) If there were no periods during the reporting period when your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction.
(13) If there were no periods during the reporting period when a continuous monitoring system was out of control, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring systems were out of control.
(14) If there were no operator training deviations, a statement that there were no such deviations during the reporting period.
(15) If you did not make revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a statement that you did not make any revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period. If you made revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a copy of the revised plan.
(16) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction that occurred during the reporting period and that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(d)
Deviation reports.
(1) You must submit a deviation report if:
(i) Any recorded operating parameter level, based on the averaging time specified in Table 4 to this subpart, is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart.
(ii) The bag leak detection system alarm sounds for more than 5 percent of the operating time for the 6-month reporting period.
(iii) Any recorded 24-hour block average emissions level is above the emission limit, if a continuous monitoring system is used to comply with an emission limit.
(iv) There are visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system for more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period.
(v) A performance test was conducted that deviated from any emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.
(vi) A continuous monitoring system was out of control.
(vii) You had a malfunction (
e.g.,
continuous monitoring system malfunction) that caused or may have caused
any applicable emission limit to be exceeded.
(2) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).
(3) For each deviation where you are using a continuous monitoring system to comply with an associated emission limit or operating limit, report the items described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(viii) of this section.
(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(iii) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.
(iv) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(v) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:
(A) Emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, and your corrective actions.
(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.
(vi) Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents.
(vii) A copy of the operating parameter monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.
(viii) If there were periods during which the continuous monitoring system malfunctioned or was out of control, you must include the following information for each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit:
(A) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(B) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(C) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out of control, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(D) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of malfunction, during a period when the system as out of control, or during another period.
(E) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(F) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(G) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the SSI unit at which the continuous monitoring system downtime occurred during that reporting period.
(H) An identification of each parameter and pollutant that was monitored at the SSI unit.
(I) A brief description of the SSI unit.
(J) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.
(K) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.
(L) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
(4) For each deviation where you are not using a continuous monitoring system to comply with the associated emission limit or operating limit, report the following items:
(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.
(iii) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.
(iv) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.
(v) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
(vi) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:
(A) Emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, and your corrective actions.
(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.
(vii) A copy of any performance test report that showed a deviation from the emission limits or standards.
(viii) A brief description of any malfunction reported in paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, including a description of actions taken during the malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d) and to correct the malfunction.
(e)
Qualified operator deviation.
(1) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (e)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
(A) A statement of what caused the deviation.
(B) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(C) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.
(ii) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(A) through (e)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.
(B) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
(C) Request for approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the SSI unit.
(2) If your unit was shut down by the Administrator, under the provisions of § 60.5155(b)(2)(i), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator, you must notify the Administrator within five days of meeting § 60.5155(b)(2)(ii) that you are resuming operation.
(f)
Notification of a force majeure.
If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure:
(1) You must notify the Administrator, in writing as soon as practicable following the date you first knew, or through due diligence, should have known that the event may cause or caused a delay in conducting a performance test beyond the regulatory deadline, but the notification must occur before the performance test deadline unless the initial force majeure or a subsequent force majeure event delays the notice, and in such cases, the notification must occur as soon as practicable.
(2) You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in conducting the performance test beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay; and identify a date by which you propose to conduct the performance test.
(g)
Other notifications and reports required.
You must submit other notifications as provided by § 60.7 and as follows:
(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting or stopping use of a continuous monitoring system for determining compliance with any emission limit.
(2) You must notify the Administrator at least 30 days prior to any performance test conducted to comply with the provisions of this subpart, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(3) As specified in § 60.5220(a)(8), you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the date of a rescheduled performance test for which notification was previously made in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(h)
Report submission form.
(1) Submit initial, annual, and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates.
(2) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2, conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (
i.e.,
reference method) data and performance
test (
i.e.,
compliance test) data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (
see http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert__tool.html/
) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
(i)
Changing report dates.
If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.

# Model Rule—Title V Operating Permits
§ 60.5240
Am I required to apply for and obtain a Title V operating permit for my existing SSI unit?
Yes, if you are subject to an applicable EPA-approved and effective CAA section 111(d)/129 state or tribal plan or an applicable and effective Federal plan, you are required to apply for and obtain a Title V operating permit for your existing SSI unit unless you meet the relevant requirements for an exemption specified in § 60.5065.
§ 60.5245
When must I submit a title V permit application for my existing SSI unit?
(a) If your existing SSI unit is not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, a complete title V permit application must be submitted on or before the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. (See sections 129 (e), 503(c), 503(d), and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i) and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i)).
(1) 12 months after the effective date of any applicable EPA-approved Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 state or tribal plan.
(2) 12 months after the effective date of any applicable Federal plan.
(3) March 21, 2014.
(b) For any existing unit not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, the application deadline of 36 months after the promulgation of this subpart applies regardless of whether or when any applicable Federal plan is effective, or whether or when any applicable Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 state or tribal plan is approved by EPA and becomes effective.
(c) If your existing unit is subject to title V as a result of some triggering requirement(s) other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section (for example, a unit may be a major source or part of a major source), then your unit may be required to apply for a title V permit prior to the deadlines specified in paragraphs (a) and (b). If more than one requirement triggers a source's obligation to apply for a title V permit, the 12-month timeframe for filing a title V permit application is triggered by the requirement which first causes the source to be subject to title V. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i), 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b), and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)
(d) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 40 CFR 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. (
See
sections 503(d) and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 40 CFR 71.7(b).)

# Model Rule-Definitions
§ 60.5250
What definitions must I know?
Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and § 60.2.
Administrator
means:
(1) For units covered by the Federal plan, the Administrator of the EPA or his/her authorized representative.
(2) For units covered by an approved state plan, the director of the state air pollution control agency or his/her authorized representative.
Affected source
means a sewage sludge incineration unit as defined in § 60.5250.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a
defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Auxiliary fuel
means natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.
Bag leak detection system
means an instrument that is capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (
i.e.,
baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Bypass stack
means a device used for discharging combustion gases to avoid severe damage to the air pollution control device or other equipment.
Calendar year
means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.
Continuous automated sampling system
means the total equipment and procedures for automated sample collection and sample recovery/analysis to determine a pollutant concentration or emission rate by collecting a single integrated sample(s) or multiple integrated sample(s) of the pollutant (or diluent gas) for subsequent on- or off-site analysis; integrated sample(s) collected are representative of the emissions for the sample time as specified by the applicable requirement.
Continuous emissions monitoring system
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility.
Continuous monitoring system (CMS)
means a continuous emissions monitoring system, continuous automated sampling system, continuous parameter monitoring system or other manual or automatic monitoring that is used for demonstrating compliance with an applicable regulation on a continuous basis as defined by this subpart. The term refers to the total equipment used to sample and condition (if applicable), to analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters.
Continuous parameter monitoring system
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording operating conditions associated with air pollution control device systems (
e.g.,
operating temperature, pressure, and power).
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements.
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Dioxins/furans
means tetra- through octa-chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Electrostatic precipitator or wet electrostatic precipitator
means an air pollution control device that uses both electrical forces and, if applicable, water to remove pollutants in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack.
Existing sewage sludge incineration unit
means a sewage sludge incineration unit the construction of which is commenced on or before October 14, 2010.
Fabric filter
means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse.
Fluidized bed incinerator
means an enclosed device in which organic matter and inorganic matter in sewage sludge are combusted in a bed of particles suspended in the combustion chamber gas.
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Modification
means a change to an existing SSI unit later than September
21, 2011 and that meets one of two criteria:
(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the SSI unit (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). To determine what systems are within the boundary of the SSI unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of SSI unit.
(2) Any physical change in the SSI unit or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.
Modified sewage sludge incineration unit
means an existing SSI unit that undergoes a modification, as defined in this section.
Multiple hearth incinerator
means a circular steel furnace that contains a number of solid refractory hearths and a central rotating shaft; rabble arms that are designed to slowly rake the sludge on the hearth are attached to the rotating shaft. Dewatered sludge enters at the top and proceeds downward through the furnace from hearth to hearth, pushed along by the rabble arms.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any amount of sewage sludge is combusted at any time in the SSI unit.
Particulate matter
means filterable particulate matter emitted from SSI units as measured by Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Methods 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8.
Power input to the electrostatic precipitator
means the product of the test-run average secondary voltage and the test-run average secondary amperage to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates.
Process change
means a significant permit revision, but only with respect to those pollutant-specific emission units for which the proposed permit revision is applicable, including but not limited to:
(1) A change in the process employed at the wastewater treatment facility associated with the affected SSI unit (
e.g.,
the addition of tertiary treatment at the facility, which changes the method used for disposing of process solids and processing of the sludge prior to incineration).
(2) A change in the air pollution control devices used to comply with the emission limits for the affected SSI unit (
e.g.,
change in the sorbent used for activated carbon injection).
Sewage sludge
means solid, semi-solid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. Sewage sludge includes, but is not limited to, domestic septage; scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes; and a material derived from sewage sludge. Sewage sludge does not include ash generated during the firing of sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incineration unit or grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works.
Sewage sludge feed rate
means the rate at which sewage sludge is fed into the incinerator unit.
Sewage sludge incineration (SSI) unit
means an incineration unit combusting sewage sludge for the purpose of reducing the volume of the sewage sludge by removing combustible matter. Sewage sludge incineration unit designs include fluidized bed and multiple hearth. A SSI unit also includes, but is not limited to, the sewage sludge feed system, auxiliary fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The SSI unit includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system. The combustion unit bottom ash system ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The SSI unit does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack.
Shutdown
means the period of time after all sewage sludge has been combusted in the primary chamber.
Solid waste
means any garbage, refuse, sewage sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342), or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014).
Standard conditions,
when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).
Startup
means the period of time between the activation, including the firing of fuels (
e.g.,
natural gas or distillate oil), of the system and the first feed to the unit.
Toxic equivalency
means the product of the concentration of an individual dioxin isomer in an environmental mixture and the corresponding estimate of the compound-specific toxicity relative to tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin, referred to as the toxic equivalency factor for that compound. Table 5 to this subpart lists the toxic equivalency factors.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquid to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
You
means the owner or operator of an affected SSI unit.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Increments of Progress and Compliance Schedules for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
Comply with these increments of progress
By these dates
a
Increment 1—Submit final control plan
(Dates to be specified in state plan)
Increment 2—Final compliance
(Dates to be specified in state plan)
b
a
Site-specific schedules can be used at the discretion of the state.
b
The date can be no later than 3 years after the effective date of state plan approval or March 21, 2016 for SSI units that commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limits and Standards for Existing Fluidized Bed Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limit
a
Using these averaging methods and minimum sampling volumes or
durations
And determining compliance using this method
Particulate matter
18 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters sample per run)
Performance test (Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3; Method 26A or Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Hydrogen chloride
0.51 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
64 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis); or
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
b
1.2 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass basis); or
0.10 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (toxic equivalency basis)
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Mercury
0.037 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008)
c
, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008).
c
Oxides of nitrogen
150 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Sulfur dioxide
15 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 6, collect a minimum volume of 60 liters per run. For Method 6C, collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 40, appendix A-4; or ANSI/ASME PTC-19.10-1981.
c
Cadmium
0.0016 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Lead
0.0074 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters sample per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8. Use GFAAS or ICP/MS for the analytical finish.
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part).
a
All emission limits are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
You have the option to comply with either the dioxin/furan emission limit on a total mass basis or the dioxin/furan emission limit on a toxic equivalency basis.
c
Incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Emission Limits and Standards for Existing Multiple Hearth Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
For the air pollutant
You must meet this emission limit
a
Using these averaging methods and
minimum sampling volumes or durations
And determining compliance using this
method
Particulate matter
80 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 0.75 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3; Method 26A or Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Hydrogen chloride
1.2 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 26, collect a minimum volume of 200 liters per run. For Method 26A, collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Carbon monoxide
3,800 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Dioxins/furans (total mass basis)
5.0 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter; or
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
b
0.32 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter
Mercury
0.28 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (For Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008),
c
collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run. For Method 30B, collect a minimum sample as specified in Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8; or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008)).
c
Oxides of nitrogen
220 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (Collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4).
Sulfur dioxide
26 parts per million by dry volume
3-run average (For Method 6, collect a minimum volume of 200 liters per run. For Method 6C, collect sample for a minimum duration of one hour per run)
Performance test (Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 40, appendix A-4; or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981).
c
Cadmium
0.095 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Lead
0.30 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter
3-run average (collect a minimum volume of 1 dry standard cubic meters per run)
Performance test (Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8).
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) for no more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period
Three 1-hour observation periods
Visible emission test (Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part).
a
All emission limits are measured at 7 percent oxygen, dry basis at standard conditions.
b
You have the option to comply with either the dioxin/furan emission limit on a total mass basis or the dioxin/furan emission limit on a toxic equivalency basis.
c
Incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Operating Parameters for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
a
For these operating parameters
You must establish these operating limits
And monitor using these minimum frequencies
Data measurement
Data recording
b
Data averaging
period for
compliance
All sewage sludge incineration units
Combustion chamber operating temperature (not required if afterburner temperature is monitored)
Minimum combustion chamber operating temperature or afterburner temperature
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Fugitive emissions from ash handling
Site-specific operating requirements
Not applicable
No applicable
Not applicable.
Scrubber
Pressure drop across each wet scrubber
Minimum pressure drop
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Scrubber liquid flow rate
Minimum flow rate
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Scrubber liquid pH
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block.
Fabric Filter
Alarm time of the bag leak detection system alarm
Maximum alarm time of the bag leak detection system alarm (this operating limit is provided in § 60.4850 and is not established on a site-specific basis)
Electrostatic precipitator
Secondary voltage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Minimum power input to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Continuous
Hourly
12-hour block.
Secondary amperage of the electrostatic precipitator collection plates
Effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator
Minimum effluent water flow rate at the outlet of the electrostatic precipitator
Hourly
Hourly
12-hour block.
Activated carbon injection
Mercury sorbent injection rate
Minimum mercury sorbent injection rate
Hourly
Hourly
12-hour block.
Dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate
Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent injection rate
Carrier gas flow rate or carrier gas pressure drop
Minimum carrier gas flow rate or minimum carrier gas pressure drop
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
Afterburner
Temperature of the afterburner combustion chamber
Minimum temperature of the afterburner combustion chamber
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
12-hour block.
a
As specified in § 60.5190, you may use a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous automated sampling system in lieu of establishing certain operating limits.
b
This recording time refers to the minimum frequency that the continuous monitor or other measuring device initially records data. For all data recorded every 15 minutes, you must calculate hourly arithmetic averages. For all parameters, you use hourly averages to calculate the 12-hour or 3-hour block average specified in this table for demonstrating compliance. You maintain records of 1-hour averages.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan isomer
Toxic
equivalency
factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.0003
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMMM, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart MMMM of Part 60—Model Rule—Summary of Reporting Requirements for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
a
Report
Due date
Contents
Reference
Increments of progress report
No later than 10 business days after the compliance date for the increment
1. Final control plan including air pollution control device descriptions, process changes, type of waste to be burned, and the maximum design sewage sludge burning capacity
2. Notification of any failure to meet an increment of progress.
3. Notification of any closure.
§ 60.5235(a).
Initial compliance report
No later than 60 days following the initial performance test
1. Company name and address
2. Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report
§ 60.5235(b).
3. Date of report
4. Complete test report for the initial performance test
5. Results of CMS
b
performance evaluation
6. The values for the site-specific operating limits and the calculations and methods used to establish each operating limit
7. Documentation of installation of bag leak detection system for fabric filter
8. Results of initial air pollution control device inspection, including a description of repairs
9. The site-specific monitoring plan required under § 60.5200
10. The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system required under § 60.5200
Annual compliance report
No later than 12 months following the submission of the initial compliance report; subsequent reports are to be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report
1. Company name and address
2. Statement and signature by responsible official.
3. Date and beginning and ending dates of report.
4. If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of the test, including any new operating limits and associated calculations and the type of activated carbon used, if applicable.
§ 60.5235(c).
5. For each pollutant and operating parameter recorded using a CMS, the highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average, as applicable
6. If no deviations from emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits occurred, a statement that no deviations occurred
7. If a fabric filter is used, the date, time, and duration of alarms
8. If a performance evaluation of a CMS was conducted, the results, including any new operating limits and their associated calculations
9. If you met the requirements of § 60.5205(a)(3) and did not conduct a performance test, include the dates of the last three performance tests, a comparison to the 50 percent emission limit threshold of the emission level achieved in the last three performance tests, and a statement as to whether there have been any process changes
10. Documentation of periods when all qualified SSI unit operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours but less than 2 weeks
11. Results of annual pollutions control device inspections, including description of repairs
12. If there were no periods during which your CMSs had malfunctions, a statement that there were no periods during which your CMSs had malfunctions
13. If there were no periods during which your CMSs were out of control, a statement that there were no periods during which your CMSs were out of control
14. If there were no operator training deviations, a statement that there were no such deviations
15. Information on monitoring plan revisions, including a copy of any revised monitoring plan
Deviation report (deviations from emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits, as specified in § 60.5235(e)(1))
By August 1 of a calendar year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year; by February 1 of a calendar year for data collected during the second half of the calendar year
If using a CMS:
1. Company name and address.
2. Statement by a responsible official.
3. The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits or operating limits.
4. The averaged and recorded data for those dates.
5. Duration and cause of each deviation.
§ 60.5235(d).
6. Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents
7. A copy of the operating parameter monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels
8. For periods of CMS malfunction or when a CMS was out of control, you must include the information specified in § 60.5235(d)(3)(viii)
If not using a CMS:
1. Company name and address
2. Statement by a responsible official
3. The total operating time of each affected SSI
4. The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standard, or operating limits
5. The averaged and recorded data for those dates
6. Duration and cause of each deviation
7. A copy of any performance test report that showed a deviation from the emission limits or standards
8. A brief description of any malfunction, a description of actions taken during the malfunction to minimize emissions, and corrective action taken
Notification of qualified operator deviation (if all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more)
Within 10 days of deviation
1. Statement of cause of deviation
2. Description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator will be available.
3. The date when a qualified operator will be accessible.
§ 60.5235(e).
Notification of status of qualified operator deviation
Every 4 weeks following notification of deviation
1. Description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible
2. The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.
3. Request for approval to continue operation.
§ 60.5235(e).
Notification of resumed operation following shutdown (due to qualified operator deviation and as specified in § 60.5155(b)(2)(i)
Within five days of obtaining a qualified operator and resuming operation
1. Notification that you have obtained a qualified operator and are resuming operation
§ 60.5235(e).
Notification of a force majeure
As soon as practicable following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known that the event may cause or caused a delay in conducting a performance test beyond the regulatory deadline; the notification must occur before the performance test deadline unless the initial force majeure or a subsequent force majeure event delays the notice, and in such cases, the notification must occur as soon as practicable
1. Description of the force majeure event
2. Rationale for attributing the delay in conducting the performance test beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure
3. Description of the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay.
4. Identification of the date by which you propose to conduct the performance test.
§ 60.5235(f).
Notification of intent to start or stop use of a CMS
1 month before starting or stopping use of a CMS
1. Intent to start or stop use of a CMS
§ 60.5235(g).
Notification of intent to conduct a performance test
At least 30 days prior to the performance test
1. Intent to conduct a performance test to comply with this subpart
Notification of intent to conduct a rescheduled performance test
At least 7 days prior to the date of a rescheduled performance test
1. Intent to conduct a rescheduled performance test to comply with this subpart
a
This table is only a summary,
see
the referenced sections of the rule for the complete requirements.
b
CMS means continuous monitoring system.
Subpart NNNN [Reserved]

# Subpart OOOO—Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015

# Source:
77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.5360
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes emission standards and compliance schedules for the control of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) emissions from affected facilities that commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after August 23, 2011, and on or before September 18, 2015.
[89 FR 17035, Mar. 8, 2024]
§ 60.5365
Am I subject to this subpart?
You are subject to the applicable provisions of this subpart if you are the owner or operator of one or more of the onshore affected facilities listed in
paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for which you commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after August 23, 2011, and on or before September 18, 2015. An affected facility must continue to comply with the requirements of this subpart until it begins complying with a more stringent requirement, that applies to the same affected facility, in an approved, and effective, state or Federal plan that implements subpart OOOOc of this part, or modifies or reconstructs after December 6, 2022, and thus becomes subject to subpart OOOOb of this part.
(a) Each gas well affected facility, which is a single natural gas well.
(b) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility, which is a single centrifugal compressor using wet seals that is located between the wellhead and the point of custody transfer to the natural gas transmission and storage segment. A centrifugal compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.
(c) Each reciprocating compressor affected facility, which is a single reciprocating compressor located between the wellhead and the point of custody transfer to the natural gas transmission and storage segment. A reciprocating compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.
(d)(1) For the oil production segment (between the wellhead and the point of custody transfer to an oil pipeline), each pneumatic controller affected facility, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller operating at a natural gas bleed rate greater than 6 standard cubic feet per hour.
(2) For the natural gas production segment (between the wellhead and the point of custody transfer to the natural gas transmission and storage segment and not including natural gas processing plants), each pneumatic controller affected facility, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller operating at a natural gas bleed rate greater than 6 standard cubic feet per hour.
(3) For natural gas processing plants, each pneumatic controller affected facility, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller.
(e) Each storage vessel affected facility, which is a single storage vessel located in the oil and natural gas production segment, natural gas processing segment or natural gas transmission and storage segment, and has the potential for VOC emissions equal to or greater than 6 tons per year (tpy) as determined according to this section by October 15, 2013, for Group 1 storage vessels and by April 15, 2014, or 30 days after startup (whichever is later) for Group 2 storage vessels, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. The potential for VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the maximum average daily throughput determined for a 30-day period of production prior to the applicable emission determination deadline specified in this section. The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practically enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, State, local or Tribal authority.
(1) For each new, modified or reconstructed storage vessel receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for gas well affected facilities in § 60.5375, including wells subject to § 60.5375(f), you must determine the potential for VOC emissions within 30 days after startup of production.
(2) A storage vessel affected facility that subsequently has its potential for VOC emissions decrease to less than 6 tpy shall remain an affected facility under this subpart.
(3) For storage vessels not subject to a legally and practically enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local or tribal authority, any vapor from the storage vessel that is recovered and routed to a process through a VRU designed and operated as specified in this section is not required to be included in the determination of VOC potential to emit for purposes of determining affected facility status, provided you comply with the
requirements in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You meet the cover requirements specified in § 60.5411(b).
(ii) You meet the closed vent system requirements specified in § 60.5411(c).
(iii) You maintain records that document compliance with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(iv) In the event of removal of apparatus that recovers and routes vapor to a process, or operation that is inconsistent with the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must determine the storage vessel's potential for VOC emissions according to this section within 30 days of such removal or operation.
(4) The following requirements apply immediately upon startup, startup of production, or return to service. A storage vessel affected facility that is reconnected to the original source of liquids is a storage vessel affected facility subject to the same requirements that applied before being removed from service. Any storage vessel that is used to replace any storage vessel affected facility is subject to the same requirements that apply to the storage vessel affected facility being replaced.
(5) A storage vessel with a capacity greater than 100,000 gallons used to recycle water that has been passed through two stage separation is not a storage vessel affected facility.
(f) The group of all equipment, except compressors, within a process unit is an affected facility.
(1) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement that is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.
(2) Equipment associated with a compressor station, dehydration unit, sweetening unit, underground storage vessel, field gas gathering system, or liquefied natural gas unit is covered by §§ 60.5400, 60.5401, 60.5402, 60.5421, and 60.5422 of this subpart if it is located at an onshore natural gas processing plant. Equipment not located at the onshore natural gas processing plant site is exempt from the provisions of §§ 60.5400, 60.5401, 60.5402, 60.5421, and 60.5422 of this subpart.
(3) The equipment within a process unit of an affected facility located at onshore natural gas processing plants and described in paragraph (f) of this section are exempt from this subpart if they are subject to and controlled according to subparts VVa, GGG or GGGa of this part.
(g) Sweetening units located at onshore natural gas processing plants that process natural gas produced from either onshore or offshore wells.
(1) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas is an affected facility; and
(2) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas followed by a sulfur recovery unit is an affected facility.
(3) Facilities that have a design capacity less than 2 long tons per day (LT/D) of hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) are required to comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 60.5423(c) but are not required to comply with §§ 60.5405 through 60.5407 and §§ 60.5410(g) and 60.5415(g) of this subpart.
(4) Sweetening facilities producing acid gas that is completely reinjected into oil-or-gas-bearing geologic strata or that is otherwise not released to the atmosphere are not subject to §§ 60.5405 through 60.5407, 60.5410(g), 60.5415(g), and 60.5423 of this subpart.
(h) The following provisions apply to gas well facilities that are hydraulically refractured.
(1) A gas well facility that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing is not an affected facility, provided that the requirements of § 60.5375 are met. For purposes of this provision, the dates specified in § 60.5375(a) do not apply, and such facilities, as of October 15, 2012, must meet the requirements of § 60.5375(a)(1) through (4).
(2) A well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing at a gas well facility not conducted pursuant to § 60.5375 is a modification to the gas well affected facility.
(3) Refracturing of a gas well facility does not affect the modification status of other equipment, process units, storage vessels, compressors, or pneumatic controllers located at the well site.
(4) A gas well facility initially constructed after August 23, 2011, and on or before September 18, 2015 is considered an affected facility regardless of this provision.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58435, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79036, Dec. 31, 2014; 80 FR 48268, Aug. 12, 2015; 81 FR 35896, June 3, 2016; 85 FR 57069, Sept. 14, 2020; 89 FR 17035, Mar. 8, 2024]
§ 60.5370
When must I comply with this subpart?
(a) You must be in compliance with the standards of this subpart no later than October 15, 2012 or upon startup, whichever is later.
(b) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, owners and operators shall maintain and operate any affected facility including associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity observations, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the source.
(c) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) You are deemed to be in compliance with this subpart if you are in compliance with all applicable provisions of subpart OOOOa of this part.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 35896, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5371
What standards apply to super-emitter events?
This section applies to super-emitter events. For purposes of this section, a super-emitter event is defined as any emissions event that is located at an individual well site or compressor station and that is detected using remote detection methods and has a quantified emission rate of 100 kg/hr of methane or greater. Upon receiving a notification of a super emitter event issued by the EPA under § 60.5371b(c), owners or operators must take the actions listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Within 5 calendar days of receiving a notification from the EPA of a super-emitter event, the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility (
e.g.,
a well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) must initiate a super-emitter event investigation.
(a)
Identification of super-emitter events.
(1) If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification subject to the regulation under this subpart, report this result to the EPA under paragraph (e) of this section. Your super-emitter event investigation is deemed complete under this subpart.
(2) If you own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification subject to regulation under this subpart, you must investigate to determine the source of super-emitter event. The investigation may include but is not limited to the actions specified below in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Review any maintenance activities or process activities from the affected facilities subject to regulation under this subpart, starting from the date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of investigation, to determine if the activities indicate any potential source(s) of the super-emitter event emissions.
(ii) Review all monitoring data from control devices (
e.g.,
flares) from the affected facilities subject to regulation under this subpart from the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of receiving the notification from the EPA to identify malfunctions of control devices or periods when the control devices were not in compliance with applicable requirements and that indicate a potential source of the super-emitter event emissions.
(iii) Screen the entire well site or compressor station with OGI, or Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, or an
alternative test method(s) approved per § 60.5398b(d), to determine if a super-emitter event is present.
(b)
Super-emitter event report.
For equipment subject to regulation under this subpart, you must submit the results of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the super-emitter event (
i.e.,
emission at 100 kg/hr of methane or more) is ongoing at the time of the initial report, submit the additional information in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. You must attest to the information included in the report as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(1) Within 15 days of receiving a notification from the EPA under § 60.5371b(c), you must submit a report of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section through the Super-Emitter Program Portal. You must include the applicable information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section in the report. If you have identified a demonstrable error in the notification, the report may include a statement of the demonstrable error.
(i) Notification Report ID of the super-emitter event notification.
(ii) Identification of whether you are the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification. If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (viii) of this section.
(iii) General identification information for the facility, including, facility name, the physical address, applicable ID Number (
e.g.,
EPA ID Number, API Well ID Number), the owner or operator or responsible official (where applicable) and their email address.
(iv) Identification of whether there is an affected facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under this subpart at a well site or compressor station you own or operate within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification.
(v) Indication of whether you were able to identify the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate you were unable to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you must certify that all applicable investigations specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (v) of this section have been conducted for all affected facilities and associated equipment subject to this subpart that are at this oil and natural gas facility, and you have determined that the affected facilities and associated equipment are not the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate that you were not able to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) through (viii) of this section.
(vi) The source(s) of the super-emitter event.
(vii) Identification of whether the source of the super-emitter event is an affected facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under of this subpart. If the source of the super-emitter event is equipment subject to regulation under this subpart, identify the applicable regulation(s) under this subpart.
(viii) Indication of whether the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal (
i.e.,
emission at 100 kg/hr of methane or more).
(A) If the super-emitter event is not ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide the estimated date and time the super-emitter event ended.
(B) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide a short narrative of your plan to end the super-emitter event, including the targeted end date for the efforts to be completed and the super-emitter event ended.
(2) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, within 5 business days of the date the super-emitter event ends, you must update your initial report through the Super-Emitter Program Portal (available at
http://www.epa.gov/super-emitter
) to provide the end date and time of the super-emitter event.
(3) You must sign the following attestation must be signed by the owner or operator into when submitting data
into the Super-Emitter Program Portal: “I certify that the information provided in this report regarding the specified super-emitter event was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the investigations were conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5371(a) and (b). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that knowingly false statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.”
[89 FR 17035, Mar. 8, 2024]
§ 60.5375
What standards apply to gas well affected facilities?
If you are the owner or operator of a gas well affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing begun prior to January 1, 2015, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section unless a more stringent state or local emission control requirement is applicable; optionally, you may comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. For each new well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing begun on or after January 1, 2015, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. You must maintain a log as specified in paragraph (b).
(1) For each stage of the well completion operation, as defined in § 60.5430, follow the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) During the initial flowback stage, route the flowback into one or more well completion vessels or storage vessels and commence operation of a separator unless it is technically infeasible for a separator to function. Any gas present in the initial flowback stage is not subject to control under this section.
(ii) During the separation flowback stage, route all recovered liquids from the separator to one or more well completion vessels or storage vessels, re-inject the liquids into the well or another well or route the recovered liquids to a collection system. Route the recovered gas from the separator into a gas flow line or collection system, re-inject the recovered gas into the well or another well, use the recovered gas as an on-site fuel source, or use the recovered gas for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve. If it is infeasible to route the recovered gas as required above, follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If, at any time during the separation flowback stage, it is not technically feasible for a separator to function, you must comply with (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) All salable quality recovered gas must be routed to the gas flow line as soon as practicable. In cases where salable quality gas cannot be directed to the flow line, you must follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) You must capture and direct recovered gas to a completion combustion device, except in conditions that may result in a fire hazard or explosion, or where high heat emissions from a completion combustion device may negatively impact tundra, permafrost or waterways. Completion combustion devices must be equipped with a reliable continuous ignition source.
(4) You have a general duty to safely maximize resource recovery and minimize releases to the atmosphere during flowback and subsequent recovery.
(b) You must maintain a log for each well completion operation at each gas well affected facility. The log must be completed on a daily basis for the duration of the well completion operation and must contain the records specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(iii).
(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to gas well affected facilities as required by § 60.5410.
(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to gas well affected facilities as required by § 60.5415.
(e) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping and reporting as required by § 60.5420.
(f)(1) For each gas well affected facility specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.
(i) Each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing at a wildcat or delineation well.
(ii) Each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing at a non-wildcat low pressure gas well or non-delineation low pressure gas well.
(2) Route the flowback into one or more well completion vessels and commence operation of a separator unless it is technically infeasible for a separator to function. Any gas present in the flowback before the separator can function is not subject to control under this section. You must capture and direct recovered gas to a completion combustion device, except in conditions that may result in a fire hazard or explosion, or where high heat emissions from a completion combustion device may negatively impact tundra, permafrost or waterways. Completion combustion devices must be equipped with a reliable continuous ignition source. You must also comply with paragraphs (a)(4) and (b) through (e) of this section.
(3) You must maintain records specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(iii) for wildcat, delineation and low pressure gas wells.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 79037, Dec. 31, 2014]
§ 60.5380
What standards apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities?
You must comply with the standards in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for each centrifugal compressor affected facility.
(a)(1) You must reduce VOC emissions from each centrifugal compressor wet seal fluid degassing system by 95.0 percent or greater.
(2) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(b), that is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(a) and routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412(a), (b) and (c). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.
(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5410(b).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5415(b).
(d) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping, and reporting as required by § 60.5420.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58436, Sept. 23, 2013]
§ 60.5385
What standards apply to reciprocating compressor affected facilities?
You must comply with the standards in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for each reciprocating compressor affected facility.
(a) You must replace the reciprocating compressor rod packing according to either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section or you must comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(1) Before the compressor has operated for 26,000 hours. The number of hours of operation must be continuously monitored beginning upon initial startup of your reciprocating compressor affected facility, or October 15, 2012, or the date of the most recent reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is later.
(2) Prior to 36 months from the date of the most recent rod packing replacement, or 36 months from the date of startup for a new reciprocating compressor for which the rod packing has not yet been replaced.
(3) Collect the emissions from the rod packing using a rod packing emissions collection system which operates under negative pressure and route the rod packing emissions to a process through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(a).
(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to reciprocating compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5410.
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards that apply
to reciprocating compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5415.
(d) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping, and reporting as required by § 60.5420.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 79037, Dec. 31, 2014]
§ 60.5390
What standards apply to pneumatic controller affected facilities?
For each pneumatic controller affected facility you must comply with the VOC standards, based on natural gas as a surrogate for VOC, in either paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section, as applicable. Pneumatic controllers meeting the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are exempt from this requirement.
(a) The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section are not required if you determine that the use of a pneumatic controller affected facility with a bleed rate greater than the applicable standard is required based on functional needs, including but not limited to response time, safety and positive actuation. However, you must tag such pneumatic controller with the month and year of installation, reconstruction or modification, and identification information that allows traceability to the records for that pneumatic controller, as required in § 60.5420(c)(4)(ii).
(b)(1) Each pneumatic controller affected facility at a natural gas processing plant must have a bleed rate of zero.
(2) Each pneumatic controller affected facility at a natural gas processing plant must be tagged with the month and year of installation, reconstruction or modification, and identification information that allows traceability to the records for that pneumatic controller as required in § 60.5420(c)(4)(iv).
(c)(1) Each pneumatic controller affected facility constructed, modified or reconstructed on or after October 15, 2013, at a location between the wellhead and a natural gas processing plant or the point of custody transfer to an oil pipeline must have a bleed rate less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet per hour.
(2) Each pneumatic controller affected facility constructed, modified or reconstructed on or after October 15, 2013, at a location between the wellhead and a natural gas processing plant or the point of custody transfer to an oil pipeline must be tagged with the month and year of installation, reconstruction or modification, and identification information that allows traceability to the records for that controller as required in § 60.5420(c)(4)(iii).
(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to pneumatic controller affected facilities as required by § 60.5410.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards that apply to pneumatic controller affected facilities as required by § 60.5415.
(f) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping, and reporting as required by § 60.5420, except that you are not required to submit the notifications specified in § 60.5420(a).
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58436, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014]
§ 60.5395
What standards apply to storage vessel affected facilities?
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, you must comply with the standards in this section for each storage vessel affected facility.
(a)(1) If you are the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If you are the owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Requirements for Group 1 storage vessel affected facilities.
If you are the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must submit a notification identifying each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, including its location, with your initial annual report as specified in § 60.5420(b)(6)(iv).
(2) You must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.
(c)
Requirements for Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities.
If you are the
owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.
(d) You must comply with the control requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless you meet the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(1) Reduce VOC emissions by 95.0 percent according to the schedule specified in (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For each Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2014, or within 60 days after startup, whichever is later, except as otherwise provided below in paragraph (f) of this section. For storage vessel affected facilities receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for gas well affected facilities in § 60.5375, you must achieve the required emissions reductions within 60 days after startup of production as defined in § 60.5430.
(ii) For each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2015.
(2) Maintain the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the storage vessel affected facility at less than 4 tpy without considering control. Prior to using the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate for compliance purposes, you must demonstrate that the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions have remained less than 4 tpy as determined monthly for 12 consecutive months. After such demonstration, you must determine the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate each month. The uncontrolled actual VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology. Monthly calculations must be based on the average throughput for the month. Monthly calculations must be separated by at least 14 days. You must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section if your storage vessel affected facility meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) If a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility undergoes fracturing or refracturing, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section as soon as liquids from the well following fracturing or refracturing are routed to the storage vessel affected facility.
(ii) If the monthly emissions determination required in this section indicates that VOC emissions from your storage vessel affected facility increase to 4 tpy or greater and the increase is not associated with fracturing or refracturing of a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 30 days of the monthly calculation.
(e)
Control requirements.
(1) Except as required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if you use a control device to reduce emissions from your storage vessel affected facility, you must equip the storage vessel with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(b) and is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(c), and you must route emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412(c) and (d). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.
(2) If you use a floating roof to reduce emissions, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.
(f)
Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities that are removed from service or returned to service.
If you remove a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel affected facility from service, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. A Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel is not an affected facility under this subpart for the period that it is removed from service.
(1) For a storage vessel affected facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel, such that the storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools
due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.
(ii) You must submit a notification as required in § 60.5420(b)(6)(vi) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel affected facility removed from service during the reporting period and the date of its removal from service.
(2) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its affected facility status as provided in § 60.5365(e).
(3) For each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period, you must submit a notification in your next annual report as required in § 60.5420(b)(6)(vii), identifying each storage vessel affected facility and the date of its return to service.
(g)
Compliance, notification, recordkeeping, and reporting.
You must comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards as required by § 60.5410(h) and (i).
(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards as required by § 60.5415(e)(3).
(3) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping and reporting as required by § 60.5420.
(h)
Exemptions.
This subpart does not apply to storage vessels subject to and controlled in accordance with the requirements for storage vessels in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, 40 CFR part 63, subparts G, CC, HH, or WW.
[78 FR 58436, Sept. 23, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014]
§ 60.5400
What equipment leak standards apply to affected facilities at an onshore natural gas processing plant?
This section applies to the group of all equipment, except compressors, within a process unit.
(a) You must comply with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a(a), (b), and (d), 60.482-2a, and 60.482-4a through 60.482-11a, except as provided in § 60.5401.
(b) You may elect to comply with the requirements of §§ 60.483-1a and 60.483-2a, as an alternative.
(c) You may apply to the Administrator for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to that achieved by the controls required in this subpart according to the requirements of § 60.5402 of this subpart.
(d) You must comply with the provisions of § 60.485a of this part except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) You must comply with the provisions of §§ 60.486a and 60.487a of this part except as provided in §§ 60.5401, 60.5421, and 60.5422 of this part.
(f) You must use the following provision instead of § 60.485a(d)(1): Each piece of equipment is presumed to be in VOC service or in wet gas service unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment is not in VOC service or in wet gas service. For a piece of equipment to be considered not in VOC service, it must be determined that the VOC content can be reasonably expected never to exceed 10.0 percent by weight. For a piece of equipment to be considered in wet gas service, it must be determined that it contains or contacts the field gas before the extraction step in the process. For purposes of determining the percent VOC content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a piece of equipment, procedures that conform to the methods described in ASTM E169-93, E168-92, or E260-96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) must be used.
§ 60.5401
What are the exceptions to the equipment leak standards for affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) You may comply with the following exceptions to the provisions of § 60.5400(a) and (b).
(b)(1) Each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service may be monitored quarterly and within 5 days after each pressure release to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485a(b) except as provided in § 60.5400(c) and in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and § 60.482-4a(a) through (c) of subpart VVa.
(2) If an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(3)(i) When a leak is detected, it must be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(ii) A first attempt at repair must be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(4)(i) Any pressure relief device that is located in a nonfractionating plant that is monitored only by non-plant personnel may be monitored after a pressure release the next time the monitoring personnel are on-site, instead of within 5 days as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 60.482-4a(b)(1) of subpart VVa.
(ii) No pressure relief device described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must be allowed to operate for more than 30 days after a pressure release without monitoring.
(c) Sampling connection systems are exempt from the requirements of § 60.482-5a.
(d) Pumps in light liquid service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service, and connectors in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service that are located at a nonfractionating plant that does not have the design capacity to process 283,200 standard cubic meters per day (scmd) (10 million standard cubic feet per day) or more of field gas are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of §§ 60.482-2a(a)(1), 60.482-7a(a), 60.482-11a(a), and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(e) Pumps in light liquid service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service, and connectors in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service within a process unit that is located in the Alaskan North Slope are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of §§ 60.482-2a(a)(1), 60.482-7a(a), 60.482-11a(a), and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(f) An owner or operator may use the following provisions instead of § 60.485a(e):
(1) Equipment is in heavy liquid service if the weight percent evaporated is 10 percent or less at 150 °C (302 °F) as determined by ASTM Method D86-96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).
(2) Equipment is in light liquid service if the weight percent evaporated is greater than 10 percent at 150 °C (302 °F) as determined by ASTM Method D86-96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).
(g) An owner or operator may use the following provisions instead of § 60.485a(b)(2): A calibration drift assessment shall be performed, at a minimum, at the end of each monitoring day. Check the instrument using the same calibration gas(es) that were used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part, Section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. Record the instrument reading for each scale used as specified in § 60.486a(e)(8). Divide these readings by the initial calibration values for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage. If any calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then all equipment monitored since the last calibration with instrument readings below the appropriate leak definition and above the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift/divided by 100) must be re-monitored. If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment since the last calibration with instrument readings above the appropriate leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift/divided by 100) may be re-monitored.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014]
§ 60.5402
What are the alternative emission limitations for equipment leaks from onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in VOC emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in VOC emissions achieved under any design, equipment, work practice or operational standard,
the Administrator will publish, in the
Federal Register,
a notice permitting the use of that alternative means for the purpose of compliance with that standard. The notice may condition permission on requirements related to the operation and maintenance of the alternative means.
(b) Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section must be published only after notice and an opportunity for a public hearing.
(c) The Administrator will consider applications under this section from either owners or operators of affected facilities, or manufacturers of control equipment.
(d) The Administrator will treat applications under this section according to the following criteria, except in cases where the Administrator concludes that other criteria are appropriate:
(1) The applicant must collect, verify and submit test data, covering a period of at least 12 months, necessary to support the finding in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the applicant is an owner or operator of an affected facility, the applicant must commit in writing to operate and maintain the alternative means so as to achieve a reduction in VOC emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in VOC emissions achieved under the design, equipment, work practice or operational standard.
§ 60.5405
What standards apply to sweetening units at onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) During the initial performance test required by § 60.8(b), you must achieve at a minimum, an SO
2
emission reduction efficiency (Z
i
) to be determined from Table 1 of this subpart based on the sulfur feed rate (X) and the sulfur content of the acid gas (Y) of the affected facility.
(b) After demonstrating compliance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, you must achieve at a minimum, an SO
2
emission reduction efficiency (Z
c
) to be determined from Table 2 of this subpart based on the sulfur feed rate (X) and the sulfur content of the acid gas (Y) of the affected facility.
§ 60.5406
What test methods and procedures must I use for my sweetening units affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, you must use the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in paragraph § 60.8(b).
(b) During a performance test required by § 60.8, you must determine the minimum required reduction efficiencies (Z) of SO
2
emissions as required in § 60.5405(a) and (b) as follows:
(1) The average sulfur feed rate (X) must be computed as follows:
ER16AU12.000
Where:
X = average sulfur feed rate, Mg/D (LT/D).
Q
a
= average volumetric flow rate of acid gas from sweetening unit, dscm/day (dscf/day).
Y = average H
2
S concentration in acid gas feed from sweetening unit, percent by volume, expressed as a decimal.
K = (32 kg S/kg-mole)/((24.04 dscm/kg-mole)(1000 kg S/Mg)).
= 1.331 × 10
−3
Mg/dscm, for metric units.
= (32 lb S/lb-mole)/((385.36 dscf/lb-mole)(2240 lb S/long ton)).
= 3.707 × 10
−5
long ton/dscf, for English units.
(2) You must use the continuous readings from the process flowmeter to determine the average volumetric flow rate (Q
a
) in dscm/day (dscf/day) of the acid gas from the sweetening unit for each run.
(3) You must use the Tutwiler procedure in § 60.5408 or a chromatographic procedure following ASTM E260-96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) to determine the H
2
S concentration in the acid gas feed from the sweetening unit (Y). At least one sample per hour (at equally spaced intervals) must be taken during each 4-hour
run. The arithmetic mean of all samples must be the average H
2
S concentration (Y) on a dry basis for the run. By multiplying the result from the Tutwiler procedure by 1.62 × 10
−3
, the units gr/100 scf are converted to volume percent.
(4) Using the information from paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section, Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart must be used to determine the required initial (Z
i
) and continuous (Z
c
) reduction efficiencies of SO
2
emissions.
(c) You must determine compliance with the SO
2
standards in § 60.5405(a) or (b) as follows:
(1) You must compute the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology for each run using the following equation:
ER16AU12.001
(2) You must use the level indicators or manual soundings to measure the liquid sulfur accumulation rate in the product storage vessels. You must use readings taken at the beginning and end of each run, the tank geometry, sulfur density at the storage temperature, and sample duration to determine the sulfur production rate (S) in kg/hr (lb/hr) for each run.
(3) You must compute the emission rate of sulfur for each run as follows:
ER16AU12.002
Where:
E = emission rate of sulfur per run, kg/hr.
C
e
= concentration of sulfur equivalent (SO
2+
reduced sulfur), g/dscm (lb/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
K
1
= conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (7000 gr/lb).
(4) The concentration (C
e
) of sulfur equivalent must be the sum of the SO
2
and TRS concentrations, after being converted to sulfur equivalents. For each run and each of the test methods specified in this paragraph (c) of this section, you must use a sampling time of at least 4 hours. You must use Method 1 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to select the sampling site. The sampling point in the duct must be at the centroid of the cross-section if the area is less than 5 m
2
(54 ft
2
) or at a point no closer to the walls than 1 m (39 in) if the cross-sectional area is 5 m
2
or more, and the centroid is more than 1 m (39 in.) from the wall.
(i) You must use Method 6 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine the SO
2
concentration. You must take eight samples of 20 minutes each at 30-minute intervals. The arithmetic average must be the concentration for the run. The concentration must be multiplied by 0.5 × 10
−3
to convert the results to sulfur equivalent.
(ii) You must use Method 15 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine the TRS concentration from reduction-type devices or where the oxygen content of the effluent gas is less than 1.0 percent by volume. The sampling rate must be at least 3 liters/min (0.1 ft
3
/min) to insure minimum residence time in the sample line. You must take sixteen samples at 15-minute intervals. The arithmetic average of all the samples must be the concentration for the run. The concentration in ppm reduced sulfur as sulfur must be multiplied by 1.333 × 10
−3
to convert the results to sulfur equivalent.
(iii) You must use Method 16A or Method 15 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10 (manual portion only) (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) to determine the reduced sulfur concentration from oxidation-type devices or where the oxygen content of the effluent gas is greater than 1.0 percent by volume. You must take eight samples of 20 minutes each at 30-minute intervals. The arithmetic average must be the concentration for the run. The concentration in ppm reduced sulfur as sulfur must be multiplied by 1.333 × 10
−3
to convert the results to sulfur equivalent.
(iv) You must use Method 2 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine the volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. A velocity traverse must be conducted at the beginning and end of each run. The arithmetic average of the two measurements must be used to calculate the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) for the run. For the determination of the effluent gas molecular weight, a single integrated sample over the 4-hour period may be taken and analyzed or grab samples at 1-hour intervals may be taken, analyzed, and averaged. For the moisture content, you must take two samples of at least 0.10 dscm (3.5 dscf) and 10 minutes at the beginning of the 4-hour run and near the end of the time period. The arithmetic average of the two runs must be the moisture content for the run.
§ 60.5407
What are the requirements for monitoring of emissions and operations from my sweetening unit affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) If your sweetening unit affected facility is located at an onshore natural gas processing plant and is subject to the provisions of § 60.5405(a) or (b) you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices or perform measurements to determine the following operations information on a daily basis:
(1)
The accumulation of sulfur product over each 24-hour period.
The monitoring method may incorporate the use of an instrument to measure and record the liquid sulfur production rate, or may be a procedure for measuring and recording the sulfur liquid levels in the storage vessels with a level indicator or by manual soundings, with subsequent calculation of the sulfur production rate based on the tank geometry, stored sulfur density, and elapsed time between readings. The method must be designed to be accurate within ±2 percent of the 24-hour sulfur accumulation.
(2)
The
H
2
S
concentration in the acid gas from the sweetening unit for each 24-hour period.
At least one sample per 24-hour period must be collected and analyzed using the equation specified in § 60.5406(b)(1). The Administrator may require you to demonstrate that the H
2
S concentration obtained from one or more samples over a 24-hour period is within ±20 percent of the average of 12 samples collected at equally spaced intervals during the 24-hour period. In instances where the H
2
S concentration of a single sample is not within ±20 percent of the average of the 12 equally spaced samples, the Administrator may require a more frequent sampling schedule.
(3)
The average acid gas flow rate from the sweetening unit.
You must install and operate a monitoring device to continuously measure the flow rate of acid gas. The monitoring device reading must be recorded at least once per hour during each 24-hour period. The average acid gas flow rate must be computed from the individual readings.
(4)
The sulfur feed rate (X).
For each 24-hour period, you must compute X using the equation specified in § 60.5406(b)(1).
(5)
The required sulfur dioxide emission reduction efficiency for the 24-hour period.
You must use the sulfur feed rate and the H
2
S concentration in the acid gas for the 24-hour period, as applicable, to determine the required reduction efficiency in accordance with the provisions of § 60.5405(b).
(b) Where compliance is achieved through the use of an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by a continually operated incineration device, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices and continuous emission monitors as follows:
(1)
A continuous monitoring system to measure the total sulfur emission rate (E)
of SO
2
in the gases discharged to the atmosphere.
The SO
2
emission rate must be expressed in terms of equivalent sulfur mass flow rates (kg/hr (lb/hr)). The span of this monitoring system must be set so that the equivalent emission limit of § 60.5405(b) will be between 30 percent and 70 percent of the measurement range of the instrument system.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section: A monitoring device to measure the temperature of the gas leaving the combustion zone of the incinerator, if compliance with § 60.5405(a) is achieved through the use of an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by a continually operated incineration device. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±1 percent of the temperature being measured.
(3) When performance tests are conducted under the provision of § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the standards under § 60.5405, the temperature of the gas leaving the incinerator combustion zone must be determined using the monitoring device. If the volumetric ratio of sulfur dioxide to sulfur dioxide plus total reduced sulfur (expressed as SO
2
) in the gas leaving the incinerator is equal to or less than 0.98, then temperature monitoring may be used to demonstrate that sulfur dioxide emission monitoring is sufficient to determine total sulfur emissions. At all times during the operation of the facility, you must maintain the average temperature of the gas leaving the combustion zone of the incinerator at or above the appropriate level determined during the most recent performance test to ensure the sulfur compound oxidation criteria are met. Operation at lower average temperatures may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. You may request that the minimum incinerator temperature be reestablished by conducting new performance tests under § 60.8.
(4) Upon promulgation of a performance specification of continuous monitoring systems for total reduced sulfur compounds at sulfur recovery plants, you may, as an alternative to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for total reduced sulfur compounds as required in paragraph (d) of this section in addition to a sulfur dioxide emission monitoring system. The sum of the equivalent sulfur mass emission rates from the two monitoring systems must be used to compute the total sulfur emission rate (E).
(c) Where compliance is achieved through the use of a reduction control system not followed by a continually operated incineration device, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system to measure the emission rate of reduced sulfur compounds as SO
2
equivalent in the gases discharged to the atmosphere. The SO
2
equivalent compound emission rate must be expressed in terms of equivalent sulfur mass flow rates (kg/hr (lb/hr)). The span of this monitoring system must be set so that the equivalent emission limit of § 60.5405(b) will be between 30 and 70 percent of the measurement range of the system. This requirement becomes effective upon promulgation of a performance specification for continuous monitoring systems for total reduced sulfur compounds at sulfur recovery plants.
(d) For those sources required to comply with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, you must calculate the average sulfur emission reduction efficiency achieved (R) for each 24-hour clock interval. The 24-hour interval may begin and end at any selected clock time, but must be consistent. You must compute the 24-hour average reduction efficiency (R) based on the 24-hour average sulfur production rate (S) and sulfur emission rate (E), using the equation in § 60.5406(c)(1).
(1) You must use data obtained from the sulfur production rate monitoring device specified in paragraph (a) of this section to determine S.
(2) You must use data obtained from the sulfur emission rate monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section to calculate a 24-hour average for the sulfur emission rate (E). The monitoring system must provide at least one data point in each successive 15-minute interval. You must use at least two data points to
calculate each 1-hour average. You must use a minimum of 18 1-hour averages to compute each 24-hour average.
(e) In lieu of complying with paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, those sources with a design capacity of less than 152 Mg/D (150 LT/D) of H
2
S expressed as sulfur may calculate the sulfur emission reduction efficiency achieved for each 24-hour period by:
ER16AU12.003
Where:
R = The sulfur dioxide removal efficiency achieved during the 24-hour period, percent.
K
2
= Conversion factor, 0.02400 Mg/D per kg/hr (0.01071 LT/D per lb/hr).
S = The sulfur production rate during the 24-hour period, kg/hr (lb/hr).
X = The sulfur feed rate in the acid gas, Mg/D (LT/D).
(f) The monitoring devices required in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) and (c) of this section must be calibrated at least annually according to the manufacturer's specifications, as required by § 60.13(b).
(g) The continuous emission monitoring systems required in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3), and (c) of this section must be subject to the emission monitoring requirements of § 60.13 of the General Provisions. For conducting the continuous emission monitoring system performance evaluation required by § 60.13(c), Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter must apply, and Method 6 must be used for systems required by paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 60.5408
What is an optional procedure for measuring hydrogen sulfide in acid gas—Tutwiler Procedure?
The Tutwiler procedure may be found in the Gas Engineers Handbook, Fuel Gas Engineering practices, The Industrial Press, 93 Worth Street, New York, NY, 1966, First Edition, Second Printing, page 6/25 (Docket A-80-20-A, Entry II-I-67).
(a) When an instantaneous sample is desired and H
2
S concentration is ten grains per 1000 cubic foot or more, a 100 ml Tutwiler burette is used. For concentrations less than ten grains, a 500 ml Tutwiler burette and more dilute solutions are used. In principle, this method consists of titrating hydrogen sulfide in a gas sample directly with a standard solution of iodine.
(b)
Apparatus.
(See Figure 1 of this subpart) A 100 or 500 ml capacity Tutwiler burette, with two-way glass stopcock at bottom and three-way stopcock at top which connect either with inlet tubulature or glass-stoppered cylinder, 10 ml capacity, graduated in 0.1 ml subdivision; rubber tubing connecting burette with leveling bottle.
(c)
Reagents.
(1) Iodine stock solution, 0.1N. Weight 12.7 g iodine, and 20 to 25 g cp potassium iodide for each liter of solution. Dissolve KI in as little water as necessary; dissolve iodine in concentrated KI solution, make up to proper volume, and store in glass-stoppered brown glass bottle.
(2) Standard iodine solution, 1 ml = 0.001771 g I. Transfer 33.7 ml of above 0.1N stock solution into a 250 ml volumetric flask; add water to mark and mix well. Then, for 100 ml sample of gas, 1 ml of standard iodine solution is equivalent to 100 grains H
2
S per cubic feet of gas.
(3) Starch solution. Rub into a thin paste about one teaspoonful of wheat starch with a little water; pour into about a pint of boiling water; stir; let cool and decant off clear solution. Make fresh solution every few days.
(d)
Procedure.
Fill leveling bulb with starch solution. Raise (L), open cock (G), open (F) to (A), and close (F) when solutions starts to run out of gas inlet. Close (G). Purge gas sampling line and connect with (A). Lower (L) and open (F) and (G). When liquid level is several ml past the 100 ml mark, close (G) and (F), and disconnect sampling tube. Open (G) and bring starch solution to 100 ml mark by raising (L); then close
(G). Open (F) momentarily, to bring gas in burette to atmospheric pressure, and close (F). Open (G), bring liquid level down to 10 ml mark by lowering (L). Close (G), clamp rubber tubing near (E) and disconnect it from burette. Rinse graduated cylinder with a standard iodine solution (0.00171 g I per ml); fill cylinder and record reading. Introduce successive small amounts of iodine thru (F); shake well after each addition; continue until a faint permanent blue color is obtained. Record reading; subtract from previous reading, and call difference D.
(e) With every fresh stock of starch solution perform a blank test as follows: Introduce fresh starch solution into burette up to 100 ml mark. Close (F) and (G). Lower (L) and open (G). When liquid level reaches the 10 ml mark, close (G). With air in burette, titrate as during a test and up to same end point. Call ml of iodine used C. Then, Grains H
2
S per 100 cubic foot of gas = 100(D-C)
(f) Greater sensitivity can be attained if a 500 ml capacity Tutwiler burette is used with a more dilute (0.001N) iodine solution. Concentrations less than 1.0 grains per 100 cubic foot can be determined in this way. Usually, the starch-iodine end point is much less distinct, and a blank determination of end point, with H
2
S-free gas or air, is required.
ER16AU12.004
§ 60.5410
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the standards for my gas well affected facility, my centrifugal compressor affected facility, my reciprocating compressor affected facility, my pneumatic controller affected facility, my storage vessel affected facility, and my equipment leaks and sweetening unit affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
You must determine initial compliance with the standards for each affected facility using the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. The initial compliance period begins on October 15, 2012, or upon initial startup, whichever is later, and ends no later than one year after the initial startup date for your affected facility or no later than one year after October 15, 2012. The initial compliance period may be less than one full year.
(a) To achieve initial compliance with the standards for each well completion operation conducted at your gas well affected facility you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1) You must submit the notification required in § 60.5420(a)(2).
(2) You must submit the initial annual report for your well affected facility as required in § 60.5420(b).
(3) You must maintain a log of records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(i) through (iv) for each well completion operation conducted during the initial compliance period.
(4) For each gas well affected facility subject to both § 60.5375(a)(1) and (3), as an alternative to retaining the records specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(i) through (iv), you may maintain records of one or more digital photographs with the date the photograph was taken and the latitude and longitude of the well site imbedded within or stored with the digital file showing the equipment for storing or re-injecting recovered liquid, equipment for routing recovered gas to the gas flow line and the completion combustion device (if applicable) connected to and operating at each gas well completion operation that occurred during the initial compliance period. As an alternative to imbedded latitude and longitude within the digital photograph, the digital photograph may consist of a photograph of the equipment connected and operating at each well completion operation with a photograph of a separately operating GIS device within the same digital picture, provided the latitude and longitude output of the GIS unit can be clearly read in the digital photograph.
(b)(1) To achieve initial compliance with standards for your centrifugal compressor affected facility you must reduce VOC emissions from each centrifugal compressor wet seal fluid degassing system by 95.0 percent or greater as required by § 60.5380 and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413.
(2) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(b) that is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(a) and is routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412(a), (b) and (c). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.
(3) You must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413 within 180 days after initial startup or by October 15, 2012, whichever is later, and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5415(b)(1) through (3).
(4) You must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416(a) and (b).
(5) You must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417(a) through (g), as applicable.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) You must submit the initial annual report for your centrifugal compressor affected facility as required in § 60.5420(b)(3) for each centrifugal compressor affected facility.
(8) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(2).
(c) To achieve initial compliance with the standards for each reciprocating compressor affected facility you must comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If complying with § 60.5385(a)(1) or (2), during the initial compliance period, you must continuously monitor
the number of hours of operation or track the number of months since the last rod packing replacement.
(2) If complying with § 60.5385(a)(3), you must operate the rod packing emissions collection system under negative pressure and route emissions to a process through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(a).
(3) You must submit the initial annual report for your reciprocating compressor as required in § 60.5420(b).
(4) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(3) for each reciprocating compressor affected facility.
(d) To achieve initial compliance with emission standards for your pneumatic controller affected facility you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable.
(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance by maintaining records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(4)(ii) of your determination that the use of a pneumatic controller affected facility with a bleed rate greater than 6 standard cubic feet of gas per hour is required as specified in § 60.5390(a).
(2) You own or operate a pneumatic controller affected facility located at a natural gas processing plant and your pneumatic controller is driven by a gas other than natural gas and therefore emits zero natural gas.
(3) You own or operate a pneumatic controller affected facility located between the wellhead and a natural gas processing plant and the manufacturer's design specifications indicate that the controller emits less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet of gas per hour.
(4) You must tag each new pneumatic controller affected facility according to the requirements of § 60.5390(b)(2) or (c)(2).
(5) You must include the information in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and a listing of the pneumatic controller affected facilities specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section in the initial annual report submitted for your pneumatic controller affected facilities constructed, modified or reconstructed during the period covered by the annual report according to the requirements of § 60.5420(b).
(6) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(4) for each pneumatic controller affected facility.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) For affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, initial compliance with the VOC requirements is demonstrated if you are in compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400.
(g) For sweetening unit affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, initial compliance is demonstrated according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) To determine compliance with the standards for SO
2
specified in § 60.5405(a), during the initial performance test as required by § 60.8, the minimum required sulfur dioxide emission reduction efficiency (Z
i
) is compared to the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology as specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) If R ≥ Z
i
, your affected facility is in compliance.
(ii) If R
Z
i
, your affected facility is not in compliance.
(2) The emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur reduction technology must be determined using the procedures in § 60.5406(c)(1).
(3) You have submitted the results of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section in the initial annual report submitted for your sweetening unit affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants.
(h) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section. For a Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must demonstrate initial compliance by April 15, 2015, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (i) of this section. For a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must demonstrate initial compliance by April 15, 2014, or within 60 days after startup, whichever is later.
(1) You must determine the potential VOC emission rate as specified in § 60.5365(e).
(2) You must reduce VOC emissions in accordance with § 60.5395(d).
(3) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, or if you route emissions to a process, you must demonstrate initial compliance by meeting the requirements in § 60.5395(e).
(4) You must submit the information required for your storage vessel affected facility as specified in § 60.5420(b).
(5) You must maintain the records required for your storage vessel affected facility, as specified in § 60.5420(c)(5) through (8) and § 60.5420(c)(12) and (13) for each storage vessel affected facility.
(i) For each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must submit the notification specified in § 60.5395(b)(2) with the initial annual report specified in § 60.5420(b)(6).
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58437, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 35896, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5411
What additional requirements must I meet to determine initial compliance for my covers and closed vent systems routing materials from storage vessels, reciprocating compressors and centrifugal compressor wet seal degassing systems?
You must meet the applicable requirements of this section for each cover and closed vent system used to comply with the emission standards for your storage vessel, reciprocating compressor or centrifugal compressor affected facility.
(a)
Closed vent system requirements for reciprocating compressors and for centrifugal compressor wet seal degassing systems.
(1) You must design the closed vent system to route all gases, vapors, and fumes emitted from the material in the reciprocating compressor rod packing emissions collection system or the wet seal fluid degassing system to a control device or to a process that meets the requirements specified in § 60.5412(a) through (c).
(2) You must design and operate the closed vent system with no detectable emissions as demonstrated by § 60.5416(b).
(3) You must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section if the closed vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, you must comply with either paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section for each bypass device.
(A) You must properly install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet to the bypass device that could divert the stream away from the control device or process to the atmosphere that is capable of taking periodic readings as specified in § 60.5416(a)(4) and either sounds an alarm, or initiates notification via remote alarm to the nearest field office, when the bypass device is open such that the stream is being, or could be, diverted away from the control device or process to the atmosphere. You must maintain records of each time the alarm is activated according to § 60.5420(c)(8).
(B) You must secure the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
(ii) Low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and safety devices are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
(b)
Cover requirements for storage vessels and centrifugal compressor wet seal degassing systems.
(1) The cover and all openings on the cover (
e.g.,
access hatches, sampling ports, pressure relief valves and gauge wells) shall form a continuous impermeable barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid in the storage vessel or wet seal fluid degassing system.
(2) Each cover opening shall be secured in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a gasketed lid or cap) whenever material is in the unit on which the cover is installed except during those times when it is necessary to use an opening as follows:
(i) To add material to, or remove material from the unit (this includes openings necessary to equalize or balance the internal pressure of the unit following changes in the level of the material in the unit);
(ii) To inspect or sample the material in the unit;
(iii) To inspect, maintain, repair, or replace equipment located inside the unit; or
(iv) To vent liquids, gases, or fumes from the unit through a closed-vent system designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) or (c) of this section to a control device or to a process.
(3) Each storage vessel thief hatch shall be equipped, maintained and operated with a weighted mechanism or equivalent, to ensure that the lid remains properly seated. You must select gasket material for the hatch based on composition of the fluid in the storage vessel and weather conditions.
(c)
Closed vent system requirements for storage vessel affected facilities using a control device or routing emissions to a process.
(1) You must design the closed vent system to route all gases, vapors, and fumes emitted from the material in the storage vessel to a control device that meets the requirements specified in § 60.5412(c) and (d), or to a process.
(2) You must design and operate a closed vent system with no detectable emissions, as determined using olfactory, visual and auditory inspections. Each closed vent system that routes emissions to a process must be operational 95 percent of the year or greater.
(3) You must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section if the closed vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device or to a process.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, you must comply with either paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section for each bypass device.
(A) You must properly install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet to the bypass device that could divert the stream away from the control device or process to the atmosphere and that either sounds an alarm, or initiates notification via remote alarm to the nearest field office, when the bypass device is open such that the stream is being, or could be, diverted away from the control device or process to the atmosphere. You must maintain records of each time the alarm is activated according to § 60.5420(c)(8).
(B) You must secure the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
(ii) Low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and safety devices are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58438, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 35896, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5412
What additional requirements must I meet for determining initial compliance with control devices used to comply with the emission standards for my storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility?
You must meet the applicable requirements of this section for each control device used to comply with the emission standards for your storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility.
(a) Each control device used to meet the emission reduction standard in § 60.5380(a)(1) for your centrifugal compressor affected facility must be installed according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. As an alternative, you may install a control device model tested under § 60.5413(d), which meets the criteria in § 60.5413(d)(11) and § 60.5413(e).
(1) Each combustion device (
e.g.,
thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) must be designed and operated in accordance with one of the performance requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must reduce the mass content of VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413.
(ii) You must reduce the concentration of TOC in the exhaust gases at the outlet to the device to a level equal to or less than 275 parts per million by
volume as propane on a wet basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413.
(iii) You must operate at a minimum temperature of 760 °C for a control device that can demonstrate a uniform combustion zone temperature during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413.
(iv) If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then you must introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.
(2) Each vapor recovery device (
e.g.,
carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device must be designed and operated to reduce the mass content of VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413. As an alternative to the performance testing requirements, you may demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a design analysis for vapor recovery devices according to the requirements of § 60.5413(c).
(3) You must design and operate a flare in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413.
(b) You must operate each control device installed on your centrifugal compressor affected facility in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must operate each control device used to comply with this subpart at all times when gases, vapors, and fumes are vented from the wet seal fluid degassing system affected facility, as required under § 60.5380(a), through the closed vent system to the control device. You may vent more than one affected facility to a control device used to comply with this subpart.
(2) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5417(a) through (g), you must demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of § 60.5415(b)(2), as applicable.
(c) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) or (d)(2) of this section, you must manage the carbon in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Following the initial startup of the control device, you must replace all carbon in the control device with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established according to § 60.5413(c)(2) or (3) or according to the design required in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, for the carbon adsorption system. You must maintain records identifying the schedule for replacement and records of each carbon replacement as required in § 60.5420(c)(10) and (12).
(2) You must either regenerate, reactivate, or burn the spent carbon removed from the carbon adsorption system in one of the units specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Regenerate or reactivate the spent carbon in a thermal treatment unit for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X.
(ii) Regenerate or reactivate the spent carbon in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with this section.
(iii) Regenerate or reactivate the spent carbon in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with an emissions standard for VOC under another subpart in 40 CFR part 60 or this part.
(iv) Burn the spent carbon in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O.
(v) Burn the spent carbon in a hazardous waste incinerator which you have designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.
(vi) Burn the spent carbon in a boiler or industrial furnace for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(vii) Burn the spent carbon in a boiler or industrial furnace that you have designed and operated in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(d) Each control device used to meet the emission reduction standard in § 60.5395(d) for your storage vessel affected facility must be installed according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. As an alternative to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you may install a control device model tested under § 60.5413(d), which meets the criteria in § 60.5413(d)(11) and § 60.5413(e).
(1) Each enclosed combustion device (
e.g.,
thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) must be designed to reduce the mass content of VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater. Each flare must be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413(a)(1). You must follow the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Ensure that each enclosed combustion device is maintained in a leak free condition.
(ii) Install and operate a continuous burning pilot flame.
(iii) Operate the enclosed combustion device with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of one minute during any 15 minute period. A visible emissions test using section 11 of EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes. Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All inspection, repair and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection. Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, visual observation as described in this paragraph.
(iv) Each enclosed combustion control device (
e.g.,
thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) must be designed and operated in accordance with one of the performance requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) You must reduce the mass content of VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413.
(B) You must reduce the concentration of TOC in the exhaust gases at the outlet to the device to a level equal to or less than 275 parts per million by volume as propane on a wet basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413.
(C) You must operate at a minimum temperature of 760 °Celsius, provided the control device has demonstrated, during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413, that combustion zone temperature is an indicator of destruction efficiency.
(D) If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then you must introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.
(2) Each vapor recovery device (
e.g.,
carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device must be designed and operated to reduce the mass content of VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater. A carbon replacement schedule must be included in the design of the carbon adsorption system.
(3) You must operate each control device used to comply with this subpart at all times when gases, vapors, and fumes are vented from the storage vessel affected facility through the closed vent system to the control device. You may vent more than one affected facility to a control device used to comply with this subpart.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58438, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79039, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 35897, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5413
What are the performance testing procedures for control devices used to demonstrate compliance at my storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility?
This section applies to the performance testing of control devices used to demonstrate compliance with the emissions standards for your centrifugal compressor affected facility. You must demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements of § 60.5412(a) using the performance test methods and procedures specified in this section. For condensers, you may use a design analysis as specified in paragraph (c) of this section in lieu of complying with paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, this section contains the requirements for enclosed combustion device performance tests conducted by the manufacturer applicable to both storage vessel and centrifugal compressor affected facilities.
(a)
Performance test exemptions.
You are exempt from the requirements to conduct performance tests and design analyses if you use any of the control devices described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) A flare that is designed and operated in accordance with § 60.18(b). You must conduct the compliance determination using Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, to determine visible emissions.
(2) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.
(3) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel.
(4) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which you have either been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(5) A hazardous waste incinerator for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O; or you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.
(6) A performance test is waived in accordance with § 60.8(b).
(7) A control device whose model can be demonstrated to meet the performance requirements of § 60.5412(a) through a performance test conducted by the manufacturer, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Test methods and procedures.
You must use the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable, for each performance test conducted to demonstrate that a control device meets the requirements of § 60.5412(a). You must conduct the initial and periodic performance tests according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(1) You must use Method 1 or 1A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, to select the sampling sites specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Any references to particulate mentioned in Methods 1 and 1A do not apply to this section.
(i) Sampling sites must be located at the inlet of the first control device, and at the outlet of the final control device, to determine compliance with the control device percent reduction requirement specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2).
(ii) The sampling site must be located at the outlet of the combustion device to determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total TOC concentration limit specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii).
(2) You must determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, as appropriate.
(3) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction performance requirement in § 60.5412(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2), you must use Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must use the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section to calculate percent reduction efficiency.
(i) For each run, you must take either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples per hour. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately
equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.
(ii) You must compute the mass rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) using the equations and procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You must use the following equations:
ER16AU12.005
Where:
E
i
, E
o
= Mass rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry basis, kilogram per hour.
K
2
= Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(parts per million) (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) (kilogram/gram) (minute/hour), where standard temperature (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) is 20 °C.
C
ij
, C
oj
= Concentration of sample component j of the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
M
ij
, M
oj
= Molecular weight of sample component j of the gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, gram/gram-mole.
Q
i
, Q
o
= Flowrate of gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry standard cubic meter per minute.
n = Number of components in sample.
(B) When calculating the TOC mass rate, you must sum all organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using the equations in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iii) You must calculate the percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) as follows:
ER16AU12.006
Where:
R
cd
= Control efficiency of control device, percent.
E
i
= Mass rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) at the inlet to the control device as calculated under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, kilograms TOC per hour or kilograms HAP per hour.
E
o
= Mass rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) at the outlet of the control device, as calculated under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, kilograms TOC per hour per hour.
(iv) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, you must determine the weight-percent reduction of total TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) exiting the device, respectively.
(4) You must use Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 to measure TOC (minus methane and ethane) to determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total VOC concentration limit specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii). You must calculate parts per million by volume concentration and correct to 3 percent oxygen, using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For each run, you must take either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples per hour. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.
(ii) You must calculate the TOC concentration for each run as follows:
ER16AU12.007
Where:
C
TOC
= Concentration of total organic compounds minus methane and ethane, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
C
ji
= Concentration of sample component j of sample i, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
n = Number of components in the sample.
x = Number of samples in the sample run.
(iii) You must correct the TOC concentration to 3 percent oxygen as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You must use the emission rate correction factor for excess air, integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005), or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10 (manual portion only) (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) to determine the oxygen concentration. The samples must be taken during the same time that the samples are taken for determining TOC concentration.
(B) You must correct the TOC concentration for percent oxygen as follows:
ER16AU12.008
Where:
C
c
= TOC concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
C
m
= TOC concentration, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
%O
2d
= Concentration of oxygen, dry basis, percent by volume.
(5) You must conduct performance tests according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct an initial performance test within 180 days after initial startup for your affected facility. You must submit the performance test results as required in § 60.5420(b)(7).
(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests for all control devices required to conduct initial performance tests except as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. You must conduct the first periodic performance test no later than 60 months after the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. You must conduct subsequent periodic performance tests at intervals no longer than 60 months following the previous periodic performance test or whenever you desire to establish a new operating limit. You must submit the periodic performance test results as specified in
§ 60.5420(b)(7). Combustion control devices meeting the criteria in either paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section are not required to conduct periodic performance tests.
(A) A control device whose model is tested under, and meets the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section.
(B) A combustion control device tested under paragraph (b) of this section that meets the outlet TOC performance level specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii) and that establishes a correlation between firebox or combustion chamber temperature and the TOC performance level.
(c)
Control device design analysis to meet the requirements of § 60.5412(a).
(1) For a condenser, the design analysis must include an analysis of the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flowrate, relative humidity, and temperature, and must establish the design outlet organic compound concentration level, design average temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream, and the design average temperatures of the coolant fluid at the condenser inlet and outlet.
(2) For a regenerable carbon adsorption system, the design analysis shall include the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flowrate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, adsorption cycle time, number and capacity of carbon beds, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon beds, design total regeneration stream flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of the carbon.
(3) For a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, such as a carbon canister, the design analysis shall include the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flowrate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of the carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule. In addition, these systems will incorporate dual carbon canisters in case of emission breakthrough occurring in one canister.
(4) If you and the Administrator do not agree on a demonstration of control device performance using a design analysis, then you must perform a performance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section to resolve the disagreement. The Administrator may choose to have an authorized representative observe the performance test.
(d)
Performance testing for combustion control devices—manufacturers' performance test.
(1) This paragraph applies to the performance testing of a combustion control device conducted by the device manufacturer. The manufacturer must demonstrate that a specific model of control device achieves the performance requirements in paragraph (d)(11) of this section by conducting a performance test as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) through (10) of this section. You must submit a test report for each combustion control device in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
(2) Performance testing must consist of three one-hour (or longer) test runs for each of the four firing rate settings specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, making a total of 12 test runs per test. Propene (propylene) gas must be used for the testing fuel. All fuel analyses must be performed by an independent third-party laboratory (not affiliated with the control device manufacturer or fuel supplier).
(i) 90-100 percent of maximum design rate (fixed rate).
(ii) 70-100-70 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at 70 percent of the maximum design rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp the firing rate to 100 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 100 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to 70 percent of the maximum design rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.
(iii) 30-70-30 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at 30 percent of the maximum design rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp
the firing rate to 70 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 70 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to 30 percent of the maximum design rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.
(iv) 0-30-0 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at the minimum firing rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp the firing rate to 30 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 30 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to the minimum firing rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.
(3) All models employing multiple enclosures must be tested simultaneously and with all burners operational. Results must be reported for each enclosure individually and for the average of the emissions from all interconnected combustion enclosures/chambers. Control device operating data must be collected continuously throughout the performance test using an electronic Data Acquisition System. A graphic presentation or strip chart of the control device operating data and emissions test data must be included in the test report in accordance with paragraph (d)(12) of this section. Inlet fuel meter data may be manually recorded provided that all inlet fuel data readings are included in the final report.
(4) Inlet testing must be conducted as specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (ii) of this section.
(i) The inlet gas flow metering system must be located in accordance with Method 2A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, (or other approved procedure) to measure inlet gas flow rate at the control device inlet location. You must position the fitting for filling fuel sample containers a minimum of eight pipe diameters upstream of any inlet gas flow monitoring meter.
(ii) Inlet flow rate must be determined using Method 2A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1. Record the start and stop reading for each 60-minute THC test. Record the gas pressure and temperature at 5-minute intervals throughout each 60-minute test.
(5) Inlet gas sampling must be conducted as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (ii) of this section.
(i) At the inlet gas sampling location, securely connect a Silonite-coated stainless steel evacuated canister fitted with a flow controller sufficient to fill the canister over a 3-hour period. Filling must be conducted as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Open the canister sampling valve at the beginning of each test run, and close the canister at the end of each test run.
(B) Fill one canister across the three test runs such that one composite fuel sample exists for each test condition.
(C) Label the canisters individually and record sample information on a chain of custody form.
(ii) Analyze each inlet gas sample using the methods in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. You must include the results in the test report required by paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
(A) Hydrocarbon compounds containing between one and five atoms of carbon plus benzene using ASTM D1945-03.
(B) Hydrogen (H
2
), carbon monoxide (CO), carbon dioxide (CO
2
), nitrogen (N
2
), oxygen (O
2
) using ASTM D1945-03.
(C) Higher heating value using ASTM D3588-98 or ASTM D4891-89.
(6) Outlet testing must be conducted in accordance with the criteria in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Sample and flow rate must be measured in accordance with paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (B) of this section.
(A) The outlet sampling location must be a minimum of four equivalent stack diameters downstream from the highest peak flame or any other flow disturbance, and a minimum of one equivalent stack diameter upstream of the exit or any other flow disturbance. A minimum of two sample ports must be used.
(B) Flow rate must be measured using Method 1, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 for determining flow measurement traverse point location, and Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 for measuring duct velocity. If low flow conditions are encountered (
i.e.,
velocity pressure differentials less than
0.05 inches of water) during the performance test, a more sensitive manometer must be used to obtain an accurate flow profile.
(ii) Molecular weight and excess air must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(iii) Carbon monoxide must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.
(iv) THC must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(9) of this section.
(v) Visible emissions must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(10) of this section.
(7) Molecular weight and excess air determination must be performed as specified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) An integrated bag sample must be collected during the Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, moisture test following the procedure specified in (d)(7)(i)(A) through (B) of this section. Analyze the bag sample using a gas chromatograph-thermal conductivity detector (GC-TCD) analysis meeting the criteria in paragraphs (d)(7)(i)(C) through (D) of this section.
(A) Collect the integrated sample throughout the entire test, and collect representative volumes from each traverse location.
(B) Purge the sampling line with stack gas before opening the valve and beginning to fill the bag. Clearly label each bag and record sample information on a chain of custody form.
(C) The bag contents must be vigorously mixed prior to the gas chromatograph analysis.
(D) The GC-TCD calibration procedure in Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be modified by using EPA Alt-045 as follows: For the initial calibration, triplicate injections of any single concentration must agree within 5 percent of their mean to be valid. The calibration response factor for a single concentration re-check must be within 10 percent of the original calibration response factor for that concentration. If this criterion is not met, repeat the initial calibration using at least three concentration levels.
(ii) Calculate and report the molecular weight of oxygen, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrogen in the integrated bag sample and include in the test report specified in paragraph (d)(12) of this section. Moisture must be determined using Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3. Traverse both ports with the Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, sampling train during each test run. Ambient air must not be introduced into the Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, integrated bag sample during the port change.
(iii) Excess air must be determined using resultant data from the EPA Method 3C tests and EPA Method 3B, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, equation 3B-1.
(8) Carbon monoxide must be determined using Method 10, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Run the test simultaneously with Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using the same sampling points. An instrument range of 0-10 parts per million by volume-dry (ppmvd) is recommended.
(9) Total hydrocarbon determination must be performed as specified by in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Conduct THC sampling using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except that the option for locating the probe in the center 10 percent of the stack is not allowed. The THC probe must be traversed to 16.7 percent, 50 percent, and 83.3 percent of the stack diameter during each test run.
(ii) A valid test must consist of three Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, tests, each no less than 60 minutes in duration.
(iii) A 0-10 parts per million by volume-wet (ppmvw) (as propane) measurement range is preferred; as an alternative a 0-30 ppmvw (as carbon) measurement range may be used.
(iv) Calibration gases must be propane in air and be certified through EPA Protocol 1—“EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards,” (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).
(v) THC measurements must be reported in terms of ppmvw as propane.
(vi) THC results must be corrected to 3 percent CO
2
, as measured by Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. You must use the following equation for this diluent concentration correction:
ER23SE13.000
Where:
C
meas
= The measured concentration of the pollutant.
CO
2meas
= The measured concentration of the CO
2
diluent.
3 = The corrected reference concentration of CO
2
diluent.
C
corr
= The corrected concentration of the pollutant.
(vii) Subtraction of methane or ethane from the THC data is not allowed in determining results.
(10) Visible emissions must be determined using Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. The test must be performed continuously during each test run. A digital color photograph of the exhaust point, taken from the position of the observer and annotated with date and time, must be taken once per test run and the 12 photos included in the test report specified in paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
(11)
Performance test criteria.
(i) The control device model tested must meet the criteria in paragraphs (d)(11)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. These criteria must be reported in the test report required by paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
(A) Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, results under paragraph (d)(10) of this section with no indication of visible emissions.
(B) Average Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, results under paragraph (d)(9) of this section equal to or less than 10.0 ppmvw THC as propane corrected to 3.0 percent CO
2
.
(C) Average CO emissions determined under paragraph (d)(8) of this section equal to or less than 10 parts ppmvd, corrected to 3.0 percent CO
2
.
(D) Excess combustion air determined under paragraph (d)(7) of this section equal to or greater than 150 percent.
(ii) The manufacturer must determine a maximum inlet gas flow rate which must not be exceeded for each control device model to achieve the criteria in paragraph (d)(11)(iii) of this section. The maximum inlet gas flow rate must be included in the test report required by paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
(iii) A control device meeting the criteria in paragraph (d)(11)(i)(A) through (D) of this section must demonstrate a destruction efficiency of 95 percent for VOC regulated under this subpart.
(12) The owner or operator of a combustion control device model tested under this paragraph must submit the information listed in paragraphs (d)(12)(i) through (vi) in the test report required by this section in accordance with § 60.5420(b)(8).
(i) A full schematic of the control device and dimensions of the device components.
(ii) The maximum net heating value of the device.
(iii) The test fuel gas flow range (in both mass and volume). Include the maximum allowable inlet gas flow rate.
(iv) The air/stream injection/assist ranges, if used.
(v) The test conditions listed in paragraphs (d)(12)(v)(A) through (O) of this section, as applicable for the tested model.
(A) Fuel gas delivery pressure and temperature.
(B) Fuel gas moisture range.
(C) Purge gas usage range.
(D) Condensate (liquid fuel) separation range.
(E) Combustion zone temperature range. This is required for all devices that measure this parameter.
(F) Excess combustion air range.
(G) Flame arrestor(s).
(H) Burner manifold.
(I) Pilot flame indicator.
(J) Pilot flame design fuel and calculated or measured fuel usage.
(K) Tip velocity range.
(L) Momentum flux ratio.
(M) Exit temperature range.
(N) Exit flow rate.
(O) Wind velocity and direction.
(vi) The test report must include all calibration quality assurance/quality control data, calibration gas values, gas cylinder certification, strip charts,
or other graphic presentations of the data annotated with test times and calibration values.
(e)
Continuous compliance for combustion control devices tested by the manufacturer in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
This paragraph applies to the demonstration of compliance for a combustion control device tested under the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section. Owners or operators must demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements in (d)(11) of this section by installing a device tested under paragraph (d) of this section and complying with the criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The inlet gas flow rate must be equal to or less than the maximum specified by the manufacturer.
(2) A pilot flame must be present at all times of operation.
(3) Devices must be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period. A visible emissions test conducted according to section 11 of EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes.
(4) Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All repairs and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection.
(5) Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass an EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, visual observation as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(6) If the owner or operator operates a combustion control device model tested under this section, an electronic copy of the performance test results required by this section shall be submitted via email to
Oil__and__Gas__PT@EPA.GOV
unless the test results for that model of combustion control device are posted at the following Web site:
epa.gov/airquality/oilandgas/.
(7) Ensure that each enclosed combustion device is maintained in a leak free condition.
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58439, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79039, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 35897, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5415
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for my gas well affected facility, my centrifugal compressor affected facility, my stationary reciprocating compressor affected facility, my pneumatic controller affected facility, my storage vessel affected facility, and my affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
(a) For each gas well affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by submitting the reports required by § 60.5420(b) and maintaining the records for each completion operation specified in § 60.5420(c)(1).
(b) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must reduce VOC emissions from the wet seal fluid degassing system by 95.0 percent or greater.
(2) For each control device used to reduce emissions, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the performance requirements of § 60.5412(a) using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section. If you use a condenser as the control device to achieve the requirements specified in § 60.5412(a)(2), you must demonstrate compliance according to paragraph (b)(2)(viii) of this section. You may switch between compliance with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section and compliance with paragraph (b)(2)(viii) of this section only after at least 1 year of operation in compliance with the selected approach. You must provide notification of such a change in the compliance method in the next annual report, as required in § 60.5420(b), following the change.
(i) You must operate below (or above) the site specific maximum (or minimum) parameter value established according to the requirements of § 60.5417(f)(1).
(ii) You must calculate the daily average of the applicable monitored parameter in accordance with § 60.5417(e) except that the inlet gas flow rate to the control device must not be averaged.
(iii) Compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the daily average of the monitoring parameter value calculated under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is either equal to or greater than the minimum monitoring value or equal to or less than the maximum monitoring value established under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. When performance testing of a combustion control device is conducted by the device manufacturer as specified in § 60.5413(d), compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the criteria in § 60.5413(e) are met.
(iv) You must operate the continuous monitoring system required in § 60.5417 at all times the affected source is operating, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments). A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
(v) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must use all the data collected during all other required data collection periods to assess the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(vi) Failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required quality monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments).
(vii) If you use a combustion control device to meet the requirements of § 60.5412(a) and you demonstrate compliance using the test procedures specified in § 60.5413(b), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(vii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) A pilot flame must be present at all times of operation.
(B) Devices must be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period. A visible emissions test conducted according to section 11 of Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes.
(C) Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All repairs and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection.
(D) Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, visual observation as described in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section.
(viii) If you use a condenser as the control device to achieve the percent reduction performance requirements specified in § 60.5412(a)(2), you must demonstrate compliance using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(viii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) You must establish a site-specific condenser performance curve according to § 60.5417(f)(2).
(B) You must calculate the daily average condenser outlet temperature in accordance with § 60.5417(e).
(C) You must determine the condenser efficiency for the current operating day using the daily average condenser outlet temperature calculated under paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(B) of this section and the condenser performance curve established under paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(A) of this section.
(D) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(viii)(D)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, at the end of each operating day, you must calculate the 365-day rolling average TOC emission reduction, as appropriate, from the condenser efficiencies as determined in paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(C) of this section.
(
1
) After the compliance dates specified in § 60.5370, if you have less than 120 days of data for determining average TOC emission reduction, you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction for the first 120 days of operation after the compliance dates. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement if the 120-day average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.
(
2
) After 120 days and no more than 364 days of operation after the compliance date specified in § 60.5370, you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction as the TOC emission reduction averaged over the number of days between the current day and the applicable compliance date. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement, if the average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.
(E) If you have data for 365 days or more of operation, you have demonstrated compliance with the TOC emission reduction if the rolling 365-day average TOC emission reduction calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(D) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.
(3) You must submit the annual report required by 60.5420(b) and maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(2).
(c) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385(a)(1) or (2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385(a)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(1) You must continuously monitor the number of hours of operation for each reciprocating compressor affected facility or track the number of months since initial startup, or October 15, 2012, or the date of the most recent reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is later.
(2) You must submit the annual report as required in § 60.5420(b) and maintain records as required in § 60.5420(c)(3).
(3) You must replace the reciprocating compressor rod packing before the total number of hours of operation reaches 26,000 hours or the number of months since the most recent rod packing replacement reaches 36 months.
(4) You must operate the rod packing emissions collection system under negative pressure and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements in § 60.5416(a) and (b).
(d) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must continuously operate the pneumatic controllers as required in § 60.5390(a), (b), or (c).
(2) You must submit the annual report as required in § 60.5420(b).
(3) You must maintain records as required in § 60.5420(c)(4).
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section for each storage vessel affected facility, for which you are using a control device or routing emissions to a process to meet the requirement of § 60.5395(d)(1).
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must reduce VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5395(d).
(ii) For each control device installed to meet the requirements of § 60.5395(d), you must demonstrate continuous
compliance with the performance requirements of § 60.5412(d) for each storage vessel affected facility using the procedure specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) and either (e)(3)(ii)(B) or (e)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) You must comply with § 60.5416(c) for each cover and closed vent system.
(B) You must comply with § 60.5417(h) for each control device.
(C) Each closed vent system that routes emissions to a process must be operated as specified in § 60.5411(c)(2).
(f) For affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, continuous compliance with VOC requirements is demonstrated if you are in compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400.
(g) For each sweetening unit affected facility at onshore natural gas processing plants, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for SO
2
specified in § 60.5405(b) according to paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The minimum required SO
2
emission reduction efficiency (Z
c
) is compared to the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology.
(i) If R ≥ Z
c
, your affected facility is in compliance.
(ii) If R
Z
c
, your affected facility is not in compliance.
(2) The emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur reduction technology must be determined using the procedures in § 60.5406(c)(1).
[77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58442, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79039, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 35897, June 3, 2016]
§ 60.5416
What are the initial and continuous cover and closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements for my storage vessel, centrifugal compressor and reciprocating compressor affected facilities?
For each closed vent system or cover at your storage vessel, centrifugal compressor and reciprocating compressor affected facility, you must comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Inspections for closed vent systems and covers installed on each centrifugal compressor or reciprocating compressor affected facility.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(11) and (12) of this section, you must inspect each closed vent system according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, inspect each cover according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and inspect each bypass device according to the procedures of paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(1) For each closed vent system joint, seam, or other connection that is permanently or semi-permanently sealed (e.g., a welded joint between two sections of hard piping or a bolted and gasketed ducting flange), you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that the closed vent system operates with no detectable emissions. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(6).
(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in piping; loose connections; liquid leaks; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices. You must monitor a component or connection using the test methods and procedures in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that it operates with no detectable emissions following any time the component is repaired or replaced or the connection is unsealed. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(6).
(2) For closed vent system components other than those specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that the closed vent system operates with no detectable emissions. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(6).
(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that the components or connections operate with no detectable emissions. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(6).
(iii) Conduct annual visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in ductwork; loose connections; liquid leaks; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(6).
(3) For each cover, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Conduct visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the cover, or between the cover and the separator wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices. In the case where the storage vessel is buried partially or entirely underground, you must inspect only those portions of the cover that extend to or above the ground surface, and those connections that are on such portions of the cover (e.g., fill ports, access hatches, gauge wells, etc.) and can be opened to the atmosphere.
(ii) You must initially conduct the inspections specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section following the installation of the cover. Thereafter, you must perform the inspection at least once every calendar year, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(11) and (12) of this section. You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in § 60.5420(c)(7).
(4) For each bypass device, except as provided for in § 60.5411, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Set the flow indicator to take a reading at least once every 15 minutes at the inlet to the bypass device that could divert the steam away from the control device to the atmosphere.
(ii) If the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device is secured in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration, visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass device. You must maintain records of the inspections according to § 60.5420(c)(8).
(b)
No detectable emissions test methods and procedures.
If you are required to conduct an inspection of a closed vent system or cover at your centrifugal compressor or reciprocating compressor affected facility as specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section.
(1) You must conduct the no detectable emissions test procedure in accordance with Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(2) The detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except that the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 must be for the average composition of the fluid and not for each individual organic compound in the stream.
(3) You must calibrate the detection instrument before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(4) Calibration gases must be as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million by volume hydrocarbon in air).
(ii) A mixture of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million by volume.
(5) You may choose to adjust or not adjust the detection instrument readings to account for the background organic concentration level. If you choose to adjust the instrument readings for the background level, you must determine the background level value according to the procedures in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(6) Your detection instrument must meet the performance criteria specified
in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 must be for the average composition of the process fluid, not each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inerts that are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, you must calculate the average stream response factor on an inert-free basis.
(ii) If no instrument is available that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, you may adjust the instrument readings by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.
(7) You must determine if a potential leak interface operates with no detectable emissions using the applicable procedure specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) If you choose not to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, then you must directly compare the maximum organic concentration value measured by the detection instrument to the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(ii) If you choose to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, you must compare the value of the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration value measured by the instrument and the background organic concentration value as determined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section with the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(8) A potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section is less than 500 parts per million by volume.
(9)
Repairs.
In the event that a leak or defect is detected, you must repair the leak or defect as soon as practicable according to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(10) of this section.
(i) A first attempt at repair must be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(ii) Repair must be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(10)
Delay of repair.
Delay of repair of a closed vent system or cover for which leaks or defects have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown, or if you determine that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. You must complete repair of such equipment by the end of the next shutdown.
(11)
Unsafe to inspect requirements.
You may designate any parts of the closed vent system or cover as unsafe to inspect if the requirements in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section are met. Unsafe to inspect parts are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(i) You determine that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(ii) You have a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.
(12)
Difficult to inspect requirements.
You may designate any parts of the closed vent system or cover as difficult to inspect, if the requirements in paragraphs (b)(12)(i) and (ii) of this section are met. Difficult to inspect parts are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(i) You determine that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.
(ii) You have a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.
(13)
Records.
Records shall be maintained as specified in this section and in § 60.5420(c)(9).
(c)
Cover and closed vent system inspections for storage vessel affected facilities.
